id: 1203.0011
title: Operational Significance of Discord Consumption: Theory and Experiment
authors: Mile Gu, Helen M. Chrzanowski, Syed M. Assad, Thomas Symul, Kavan Modi, Timothy C. Ralph, Vlatko Vedral, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, updated with Nature Physics Reference, simplified proof in Appendix
journal: Nature Physics 8, 671-675 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0011
abstract: Coherent interactions that generate negligible entanglement can still exhibit unique quantum behaviour. This observation has motivated a search beyond entanglement for a complete description of all quantum correlations. Quantum discord is a promising candidate. Here, we demonstrate that under certain measurement constraints, discord between bipartite systems can be consumed to encode information that can only be accessed by coherent quantum interactions. The inability to access this information by any other means allows us to use discord to directly quantify this `quantum advantage'. We experimentally encode information within the discordant correlations of two separable Gaussian states. The amount of extra information recovered by coherent interaction is quantified and directly linked with the discord consumed during encoding. No entanglement exists at any point of this experiment. Thus we introduce and demonstrate an operational method to use discord as a physical resource.

id: 1203.0033
title: Solving the Quantum Nonlocality Enigma by Weyl's Conformal Geometrodynamics
authors: Enrico Santamato, Francesco De martini
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0033
abstract: Since the 1935 proposal by Einstein Podolsky and Rosen the riddle of nonlocality, today demonstrated by innumerable experiments, has been a cause of concern and confusion within the debate over the foundations of quantum mechanics. The present paper tackles the problem by a non relativistic approach based on the Weyl's conformal differential geometry applied to the Hamilton-Jacobi solution of the dynamical problem of two entangled spin 1/2 particles. It is found that the nonlocality rests on the entanglement of the spin internal variables, playing the role of "hidden variables". At the end, the violation of the Bell inequalities is demonstrated without recourse to the common nonlocality paradigm. A discussion over the role of the "% \textit{internal space"} of any entangled dynamical system involves deep conceptual issues, such the \textit{indeterminism} of quantum mechanics and explores the in principle limitations to any exact dynamical theory when truly "hidden variables" are present. Because of the underlying geometrical foundations linking necessarily gravitation and quantum mechanics, the theory presented in this work may be considered to belong to the unifying "quantum gravity" scenario.

id: 1203.0051
title: Quasi-exactly solvable cases of the N-dimensional symmetric quartic anharmonic oscillator
authors: Feng Pan, Ming-Xia Xie, Chang-Liang Shi, Yi-Bin Liu, J. P. Draayer
comments: 7 pages, RevTeX4. A discussion on the N=1 case has been added with the boundary condition properly treated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0051
abstract: The O(N) invariant quartic anharmonic oscillator is shown to be exactly solvable if the interaction parameter satisfies special conditions. The problem is directly related to that of a quantum double well anharmonic oscillator in an external field. A finite dimensional matrix equation for the problem is constructed explicitly, along with analytical expressions for some excited states in the system. The corresponding Niven equations for determining the polynomial solutions for the problem are given.

id: 1203.0053
title: Singularity of dynamical maps
authors: S. C. Hou, X. X. Yi, S. X. Yu, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0053
abstract: For a dynamical map $\Lambda(t,0)$, which sends a state $\rho(0)$ of quantum open system to a state $\rho(t)=\Lambda(t,0)\rho(0)$, the decomposition law $\Lambda(t,0)=\Lambda(t,t_c)\Lambda(t_c,0)$ may break down at a specific time $t_c$. In this paper, we present a method to find the singular points $t_c$ and propose a measure for the singularity of the dynamical map. Two examples are portrayed to illustrate the method, the measure of singularity for these singular points is calculated and discussed. An extension to high-dimensional system is presented.

id: 1203.0075
title: Fluctuating Surface Currents: A New Algorithm for Efficient Prediction of Casimir Interactions among Arbitrary Materials in Arbitrary Geometries. I. Theory
authors: M. T. Homer Reid, Jacob White, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 32 pages, 6 figures. Corrected a typo in the X-axis label of Figure 5; added several references and made minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88 022514 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0075
abstract: This paper presents a new method for the efficient numerical computation of Casimir interactions between objects of arbitrary geometries, composed of materials with arbitrary frequency-dependent electrical properties. Our method formulates the Casimir effect as an interaction between effective electric and magnetic current distributions on the surfaces of material bodies, and obtains Casimir energies, forces, and torques from the spectral properties of a matrix that quantifies the interactions of these surface currents. The method can be formulated and understood in two distinct ways: \textbf{(1)} as a consequence of the familiar \textit{stress-tensor} approach to Casimir physics, or, alternatively, \textbf{(2)} as a particular case of the \textit{path-integral} approach to Casimir physics, and we present both formulations in full detail. In addition to providing an algorithm for computing Casimir interactions in geometries that could not be efficiently handled by any other method, the framework proposed here thus achieves an explicit unification of two seemingly disparate approaches to computational Casimir physics.

id: 1203.0166
title: Quantum polarization tomography of bright squeezed light
authors: C. R. Muller, B. Stoklasa, C. Gabriel, C. Peuntinger, J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil, A. B. Klimov, G. Leuchs, C. Marquardt, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures. Contribution to New Journal of Physics, Focus Issue on Quantum Tomography. Comments welcome
journal: New Journal of Physics 14,085002 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0166
abstract: We reconstruct the polarization sector of a bright polarization squeezed beam starting from a complete set of Stokes measurements. Given the symmetry that underlies the polarization structure of quantum fields, we use the unique SU(2) Wigner distribution to represent states. In the limit of localized and bright states, the Wigner function can be approximated by an inverse three-dimensional Radon transform. We compare this direct reconstruction with the results of a maximum likelihood estimation, finding an excellent agreement.

id: 1203.0168
title: Probability-preserving evolution in a non-Hermitian two-band model
authors: W. H. Hu, L. Jin, Y. Li, Z. Song
comments: 8 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042110 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0168
abstract: A non-Hermitian PT-symmetric system can have full real spectrum but does not ensure probability preserving time evolution, in contrast to that of a Hermitian system. We present a non-Hermitian two-band model, which is comprised of dimerized hopping terms and staggered imaginary on-site potentials, and study the dynamics in the exact PT-symmetric phase based on the exact solution. It is shown that an initial state, which does not involve two equal-momentum-vector eigenstates in different bands, obeys perfectly probability-preserving time evolution in terms of the Dirac inner product. Beyond this constriction, the quasi-Hermitian dynamical behaviors, such as non-spreading propagation and fractional revival of a Gaussian wave packet, are also observed.

id: 1203.0199
title: Quantum Nondemolition Measurement and Heralded Preparation of Fock States with Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in an Optical Cavity
authors: G. W. Lin, Y. P. Niu, T. Huang, X. M. Lin, Z. Y. Wang, S. Q. Gong
comments: Extended version. 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0199
abstract: We propose a technique for quantum nondemolition (QND) measurement and heralded preparation of Fock states by dynamics of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). An atomic ensemble trapped in an optical cavity is driven by two external continuous-wave classical fields to form EIT in steady state. As soon as a weak coherent field is injected into the cavity, the EIT system departs from steady state, falls into transient state dynamics by the dispersive coupling between cavity injected photons and atoms. Because the imaginary part of time-dependent linear susceptibility Im[X(t)] of the atomic medium explicitly depends on the number n of photons during the process of transient state dynamics, the measurement on the change of transmission of the probe field can be used for QND measurement of small photon number, and thus create the photon Fock states in particular single-photon state in a heralded way.

id: 1203.0211
title: Nonlocality activation in entanglement swapping chains
authors: Waldemar K?obus, Wies?aw Laskowski, Marcin Markiewicz, Andrzej Grudka
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 020302(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0211
abstract: We consider multiple entanglement swappings performed on a chain of bipartite states. Each state does not violate CHSH inequality. We show that before some critical number of entanglement swappings is achieved the output state does not violate this inequality either. However, if this number is achieved then for some results of Bell measurements obtained in the protocol of entanglement swapping the output state violates CHSH inequality. Moreover, we show that for different states we have different critical numbers for which CHSH inequality is activated.

id: 1203.0212
title: Passive optical switching of photon pairs using a spontaneous parametric fiber loop
authors: Ningbo Zhao, Lei Yang, Xiaoying Li
comments: to appear in Opt. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0212
abstract: We study a novel scheme named spontaneous parametric fiber loop (SPFL), configured by deliberately intro- ducing dispersive elements into the nonlinear Sagnac loop, and show it can function as a passive switch of photon pairs. The two-photon state coming out of SPFL highly depends on the dispersion induced phase difference of photon pairs counter-propagating in the loop. By properly managing the dispersive elements, the signal and idler photons of a pair with a certain detuning and bandwidth can be directed to the desired spatial modes of SPFL. If the photon pairs are used to generate heralded single photons, the SPFL can be viewed as a switch of single photons. Moreover, our investigation about the dispersion based phase modulation is also beneficial for designing all fiber sources of entangled photon pairs.

id: 1203.0246
title: One- and two-atom states in a rotating ring lattice
authors: Juha Javanainen, Otim Odong, Jerome C. Sanders
comments: Very close to the submitted version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0246
abstract: We study the states of one and two atoms in a rotating ring lattice in a Hubbard type tight-binding model. The model is developed carefully from basic principles in order to properly identify the physical observables. The one-particle ground state may be degenerate and represent a finite flow velocity depending on the parity of the number of lattice sites, the sign of the tunneling matrix element, and the rotation speed of the lattice. Variation of the rotation speed may be used to control one-atom states, and leads to peculiar behaviors such as wildly different phase and group velocities for an atom. Adiabatic variation of the rotation speed of the lattice may also be used to control the state of a two-atom lattice dimer. For instance, at a suitably chosen rotation speed both atoms are confined to the same lattice site.

id: 1203.0252
title: Concatenated dynamical decoupling with virtual pulses
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Alexandre M. Souza, Dieter Suter
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052324 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0252
abstract: The loss of quantum information due to interaction with external degrees of freedom, which is known as decoherence, remains one of the main obstacles for large-scale implementations of quantum computing. Accordingly, different measures are being explored for reducing its effect. One of them is dynamical decoupling (DD) which offers a practical solution because it only requires the application of control pulses to the system qubits. Starting from basic DD sequences, more sophisticated schemes were developed that eliminate higher-order terms of the system-environment interaction and are also more robust against experimental imperfections. A particularly successful scheme, called concatenated DD (CDD), gives a recipe for generating higher order sequences by inserting lower order sequences into the delays of a generating sequence. Here, we show how this scheme can be improved further by converting some of the pulses to virtual (and thus ideal) pulses. The resulting scheme, called vCDD, has lower power deposition and is more robust against pulse imperfections than the original CDD scheme.

id: 1203.0262
title: Reversibility conditions for quantum channels and their applications
authors: M.E. Shirokov
comments: 28 pages, this version contains strengthened results of the previous one and of arXiv:1106.3297; to appear in Sbornik: Mathematics, 204:7 (2013)
journal: Sbornik: Mathematics, 204:8 (2013), 1215-1237
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0262
abstract: A necessary condition for reversibility (sufficiency) of a quantum channel with respect to complete families of states with bounded rank is obtained. A full description (up to isometrical equivalence) of all quantum channels reversible with respect to orthogonal and nonorthogonal complete families of pure states is given. Some applications in quantum information theory are considered. The main results can be formulated in terms of the operator algebras theory (as conditions for reversibility of channels between algebras of all bounded operators).

id: 1203.0288
title: Numerical test of few-qubit clock protocols
authors: Till Rosenband
comments: Reformatted and updated contribution to Proc. ICOLS 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0288
abstract: The stability of several clock protocols based on 2 to 20 entangled atoms is evaluated numerically by a simulation that includes the effect of decoherence due to classical oscillator noise. In this context the squeezed states discussed by Andr\'{e}, S{\o}rensen and Lukin [PRL 92, 239801 (2004)] offer reduced instability compared to clocks based on Ramsey's protocol with unentangled atoms. When more than 15 atoms are simulated, the protocol of Bu\v{z}ek, Derka and Massar [PRL 82, 2207 (1999)] has lower instability. A large-scale numerical search for optimal clock protocols with two to eight qubits yields improved clock stability compared to Ramsey spectroscopy, and for two to three qubits performance matches the analytical protocols. In the simulations, a laser local oscillator decoheres due to flicker-frequency (1/f) noise. The oscillator frequency is repeatedly corrected, based on projective measurements of the qubits, which are assumed not to decohere with one another.

id: 1203.0319
title: Are cloned quantum states macroscopic?
authors: F. Fr?wis, W. D¨¹r
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, 1 table. Comments are welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 170401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0319
abstract: We study quantum states produced by optimal phase covariant quantum cloners. We argue that cloned quantum superpositions are not macroscopic superpositions in the spirit of Schr\"odinger's cat, despite their large particle number. This is indicated by calculating several measures for macroscopic superpositions from the literature, as well as by investigating the distinguishability of the two superposed cloned states. The latter rapidly diminishes when considering imperfect detectors or noisy states, and does not increase with the system size. In contrast, we find that cloned quantum states themselves are macroscopic, in the sense of both proposed measures and their usefulness in quantum metrology with an optimal scaling in system size. We investigate the applicability of cloned states for parameter estimation in the presence of different kinds of noise.

id: 1203.0320
title: Bell tests for continuous variable systems using hybrid measurements and heralded amplifiers
authors: Jonatan Bohr Brask, Nicolas Brunner, Daniel Cavalcanti, Anthony Leverrier
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042116 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0320
abstract: We present Bell tests for optical continuous variable systems, combining both hybrid measurements (i.e. measuring both particle and wave aspects of light) and heralded amplifiers. We discuss two types of schemes, in which the amplifier is located either at the source, or at the parties' laboratories. The inclusion of amplifiers helps to reduce the detrimental effect of losses in the setup. In particular, we show that the requirements in terms of detection efficiency and transmission losses are significantly reduced, approaching the experimentally accessible regime.

id: 1203.0350
title: Perfect NOT transformation and conjugate transformation
authors: Fengli Yan, Ting Gao, Zhichao Yan
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0350
abstract: The perfect NOT transformation, probabilistic perfect NOT transformation and conjugate transformation are studied. Perfect NOT transformation criteria on a quantum state set $S$ of a qubit are obtained. Two necessary and sufficient conditions for realizing a perfect NOT transformation on $S$ are derived. When these conditions are not satisfied we discuss a probabilistic perfect NOT transformation (gate). We construct a probabilistic perfect NOT machine (gate) by a general unitary-reduction operation. With a postselection of the measurement outcomes, the probabilistic NOT gate yields perfectly complements of the input states. We prove that one can realize probabilistically the NOT gate of the input states secretly chosen from a certain set $S=\{|\Psi_1>, |\Psi_2>,..., |\Psi_n>\}$ if and only if $|\Psi_1>, |\Psi_2>,...,$ and $|\Psi_n>$ are linearly independent. We also generalize the probabilistic NOT transformation to the conjugate transformation in the multi-level quantum system. The lower bound of the best possible efficiencies attained by a probabilistic perfect conjugate transformation are obtained.

id: 1203.0355
title: Virtual-photon-induced quantum phase gates for two distant atoms trapped in separate cavities
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 94, 154101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0355
abstract: We propose a scheme for implementing quantum gates for two atoms trapped in distant cavities connected by an optical fiber. The effective long-distance coupling between the two distributed qubits is achieved without excitation and transportation of photons through the optical fiber. Since the cavity modes and fiber mode are never populated and the atoms undergo no transitions, the gate operation is insensitive to the decoherence effect when the thermal photons in the environment are negligible. The scheme opens promising perspectives for networking quantum information processors and implementing distributed and scalable quantum computation.

id: 1203.0356
title: Manifestation of a nonclassical Berry phase of an electromagnetic field in atomic Ramsey interference
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022128 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0356
abstract: The Berry phase acquired by an electromagnetic field undergoing an adiabatic and cyclic evolution in phase space is a purely quantum-mechanical effect of the field. However, this phase is usually accompanied by a dynamical contribution and cannot be manifested in any light-beam interference experiment because it is independent of the field state. We here show that such a phase can be produced using an atom coupled to a quantized field and driven by a slowly changing classical field, and it is manifested in atomic Ramsey interference oscillations. We also show how this effect may be applied to one-step implementation of multiqubit geometric phase gates, which is impossible by previous geometric methods. The effects of dissipation and fluctuations in the parameters of the pump field on the Berry phase and visibility of the Ramsey interference fringes are analyzed.

id: 1203.0380
title: Two-particle dark state cooling of a nanomechanical resonator
authors: Jia-pei Zhu, Gao-xiang Li, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A85, 033835 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0380
abstract: The steady-state cooling of a nanomechanical resonator interacting with three coupled quantum dots is studied. General conditions for the cooling to the ground state with single and two-electron dark states are obtained. The results show that in the case of the interaction of the resonator with a single-electron dark state, no cooling of the resonator occurs unless the quantum dots are not identical. The steady-state cooling is possible only if the energy state of the quantum dot coupled to the drain electrode is detuned from the energy states of the dots coupled to the electron source electrode. The detuning has the effect of unequal shifting of the effective dressed states of the system that the cooling and heating processes occur at different frequencies. For the case of two electrons injected to the quantum dot system, the creation of a two-particle dark state is established to be possible with spin-antiparallel electrons. The results predict that with the two-particle dark state, an effective cooling can be achieved even with identical quantum dots subject of an asymmetry only in the charging potential energies coupling the injected electrons. It is found that similar to the case of the single-electron dark state, the asymmetries result in the cooling and heating processes to occur at different frequencies. However, an important difference between the single and two-particle dark state cases is that the cooling process occurs at significantly different frequencies. This indicates that the frequency at which the resonator could be cooled to its ground state can be changed by switching from the one-electron to the two-electron Coulomb blockade process.

id: 1203.0385
title: Universal time-evolution of a Rydberg lattice gas with perfect blockade
authors: B. Olmos, R. Gonz¨¢lez-F¨¦rez, I. Lesanovsky, L. Vel¨¢zquez
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 325301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0385
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of a strongly interacting spin system that is motivated by current experimental realizations of strongly interacting Rydberg gases in lattices. In particular we are interested in the temporal evolution of quantities such as the density of Rydberg atoms and density-density correlations when the system is initialized in a fully polarized state without Rydberg excitations. We show that in the thermodynamic limit the expectation values of these observables converge at least logarithmically to universal functions and outline a method to obtain these functions. We prove that a finite one-dimensional system follows this universal behavior up to a given time. The length of this universal time period depends on the actual system size. This shows that already the study of small systems allows to make precise predictions about the thermodynamic limit provided that the observation time is sufficiently short. We discuss this for various observables and for systems with different dimensions, interaction ranges and boundary conditions.

id: 1203.0390
title: Matter-wave scattering on a BEC in a double-well potential
authors: Stefan Hunn, Moritz Hiller, Tsampikos Kottos, Doron Cohen, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: EPJ D 63 55 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0390
abstract: We study the inelastic scattering of a probe particle on a Bose-Einstein condensate confined in a double-well potential. We identify prominent signatures of the underlying mean-field phase space in the scattering signal and derive an analytical expression for the inelastic scattering cross section.

id: 1203.0423
title: Adiabatic approximation in the ultrastrong-coupling regime of a system consisting of an oscillator and two qubits
authors: Ping Yang, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: 13pages,4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0423
abstract: We present a system composed of two flux qubits and a transmission-line resonator. Instead of using the rotating wave approximation (RWA), we analyse the system by the adiabatical approximation methods under two opposite extreme conditions. Basic properties of the system are calculated and compared under these two different conditions. Energy-level spectrum of the system in the adiabatical displaced oscillator basis is shown, and the theoretical result is compared with the numerical solution.

id: 1203.0445
title: Classical simulation of entanglement swapping with bounded communication
authors: Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Brunner, Harry Buhrman, Richard Cleve, Nicolas Gisin, Samuel Portmann, Denis Rosset, Mario Szegedy
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 100401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0445
abstract: Entanglement appears under two different forms in quantum theory, namely as a property of states of joint systems and as a property of measurement eigenstates in joint measurements. By combining these two aspects of entanglement, it is possible to generate nonlocality between particles that never interacted, using the protocol of entanglement swapping. We show that even in the more constraining bilocal scenario where distant sources of particles are assumed to be independent, i.e. to share no prior randomness, this process can be simulated classically with bounded communication, using only 9 bits in total. Our result thus provides an upper bound on the nonlocality of the process of entanglement swapping.

id: 1203.0451
title: Scattering of massless particles in one-dimensional chiral channel
authors: Mikhail Pletyukhov, Vladimir Gritsev
comments: 25 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 095028 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0451
abstract: We present a general formalism describing a propagation of an arbitrary multiparticle wave packet in a one-dimensional multimode chiral channel coupled to an ensemble of emitters which are distributed at arbitrary positions. The formalism is based on a direct and exact resummation of diagrammatic series for the multiparticle scattering matrix. It is complimentary to the Bethe Ansatz and to approaches based on equations of motion, and it reveals a simple and transparent structure of scattering states. In particular, we demonstrate how this formalism works on various examples, including scattering of one- and two-photon states off two- and three-level emitters, off an array of emitters as well as scattering of coherent light. We argue that this formalism can be constructively used for study of scattering of an arbitrary initial photonic state off emitters with arbitrary degree of complexity.

id: 1203.0469
title: Measurement and Particle Statistics in the Szilard Engine
authors: Martin Plesch, Oscar Dahlsten, John Goold, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0469
abstract: A Szilard Engine is a hypothetical device which is able to extract work from a single thermal reservoir by measuring the position of particles within the engine. We derive the amount of work that can be extracted from such a device in the low temperature limit. Interestingly, we show this work is determined by the information gain of the initial measurement rather than by the number and type of particles which constitute the working substance. Our work provides another clear connection between information gain and extractable work in thermodynamical processes.

id: 1203.0470
title: Structural transitions of ion strings in quantum potentials
authors: Cecilia Cormick, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figs - version to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 053003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0470
abstract: We analyse the stability and dynamics of an ion chain confined inside a high-finesse optical resonator. When the dipolar transition of the ions strongly couples to one cavity mode, the mechanical effects of light modify the chain properties close to a structural transition. We focus on the linear chain close to the zigzag instability and show that linear and zigzag arrays are bistable for certain strengths of the laser pumping the cavity. For these regimes the chain is cooled into one of the configurations by cavity-enhanced photon scattering. The excitations of these structures mix photonic and vibrational fluctuations, which can be entangled at steady state. These features are signalled by Fano-like resonances in the spectrum of light at the cavity output.

id: 1203.0577
title: Extracting Spatial Information from Noise Measurements of Multi-Spatial-Mode Quantum States
authors: A. M. Marino, J. B. Clark, Q. Glorieux, P. D. Lett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0577
abstract: We show that it is possible to use the spatial quantum correlations present in twin beams to extract information about the shape of a mask in the path of one of the beams. The scheme, based on noise measurements through homodyne detection, is useful in the regime where the number of photons is low enough that direct detection with a photodiode is difficult but high enough that photon counting is not an option. We find that under some conditions the use of quantum states of light leads to an enhancement of the sensitivity in the estimation of the shape of the mask over what can be achieved with a classical state with equivalent properties (mean photon flux and noise properties). In addition, we show that the level of enhancement that is obtained is a result of the quantum correlations and cannot be explained with only classical correlations.

id: 1203.0585
title: Quantum Collapse and the Second Law of Thermodynamics
authors: Sahand Hormoz
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 022129 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0585
abstract: A heat engine undergoes a cyclic operation while in equilibrium with the net result of conversion of heat into work. Quantum effects such as superposition of states can improve an engine's efficiency by breaking detailed balance, but this improvement comes at a cost due to excess entropy generated from collapse of superpositions on measurement. We quantify these competing facets for a quantum ratchet comprised of an ensemble of pairs of interacting two-level atoms. We suggest that the measurement postulate of quantum mechanics is intricately connected to the second law of thermodynamics. More precisely, if quantum collapse is not inherently random, then the second law of thermodynamics can be violated. Our results challenge the conventional approach of simply quantifying quantum correlations as a thermodynamic work deficit.

id: 1203.0595
title: Entanglement and nonclassicality of photon-added two-mode squeezed thermal state
authors: Li-Yun Hu, Fang Jia, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0595
abstract: We introduce a kind of entangled state---photon-addition two-mode squeezed thermal state (TMSTS) by adding photons to each mode of the TMSTS. Using the P-representation of thermal state, the compact expression of the normalization factor is derived, a Jacobi polynomial. The nonclassicality is investigated by exploring especially the negativity of Wigner function. The entanglement is discussed by using Shchukin-Vogel criteria. It is shown that the photon-addtion to the TMSTS may be more effective for the entanglement enhancement than the photon-subtraction from the TMSTS. In addition, the quantum teleportation is also examined, which shows that symmetrical photon-added TMSTS may be more useful for quantum teleportation than the non-symmetric case.

id: 1203.0613
title: A novel model for the fractional quantum Hall effect
authors: A. I. Arbab
comments: 10 LateX pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0613
abstract: A novel model of complex quantum harmonic oscillator is found to account for the observed Fractional quantum Hall effect (FQHE). The sequences of the observed FQHE conductivity and charge are explained. The two sequences are found to express a quantity and its complex conjugated partner. The oscillator is found to have two degenerates states, $\psi_n$, with angular momenta $\pm \,n\,\hbar$\,, where $h = 2\pi \hbar $ is the Planck's constant, and $n$ is the principal quantum number of the oscillator. The filling factor, $i$, that Klitzing has found for the integer quantum Hall effect (IQHE) is $i=n+1$. Analytical expressions for longitudinal resistance and Hall's voltage are obtained. The width of the plateau between two states is found to be $\Delta B=\frac{1}{n(n+1)}\,\frac{n_sh}{e}\,,$ where $n_s$ is the electron number density.

id: 1203.0628
title: Extending the Reach of QKD Using Relays
authors: Stephen M. Barnett, Simon J. D. Phoenix
comments: 
journal: Proc IEEE GCC Conference, pp.140-142 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0628
abstract: One of the obstacles to deployment of QKD solutions has been the distance limitation. Solutions using relays have been proposed but these rely on link-by-link key establishment. We present a new technique to extend the distance of a quantum key distribution channel using an active relay. Each relay acts as an intercept/resend device and allows the establishment of an end-to-end key. It has been argued that such relays cannot be used to extend the distance, but we show that with a suitable adaptation of the protocol the effective key distribution distance can be increased.

id: 1203.0630
title: Securing a Quantum Key Distribution Network Using Secret Sharing
authors: Stephen M. Barnett, Simon J.D. Phoenix
comments: 
journal: Proc IEEE GCC Conference, pp.143-145 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0630
abstract: We present a simple new technique to secure quantum key distribution relay networks using secret sharing. Previous techniques have relied on creating distinct physical paths in order to create the shares. We show, however, how this can be achieved on a single physical path by creating distinct logical channels. The technique utilizes a random 'drop-out' scheme to ensure that an attacker must compromise all of the relays on the channel in order to access the key.

id: 1203.0633
title: Detecting an Eavesdropper in QKD Without Public Bit Comparison
authors: Stephen M. Barnett, Simon J.D. Phoenix
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0633
abstract: We present a method for determining the presence of an eavesdropper in QKD systems without using any public bit comparison. Alice and Bob use a duplex QKD channel and the bit transport technique for relays. The only information made public is the respective basis choices which must be revealed in standard QKD systems anyway. We find that every filtered bit can be used to determine the presence of errors without compromising the security. This is an improvement on using a random sample in the standard BB84 protocol.

id: 1203.0650
title: Necessary and sufficient conditions of freezing phenomena of quantum discord under phase damping
authors: Bo You, Li-Xiang Cen
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012102 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0650
abstract: We investigate the freezing phenomenon of quantum discord occurring in phase damping noise processes. By relating the expression of the time variation of the discord to the convex function of relative entropy, we obtain the necessary and sufficient conditions of the phenomenon for standard Bell-diagonal states. These conditions are applicable also to the phenomenon occurring in a non-Markovian dephasing process. Moreover, we show that the same condition and phenomenon coincide in a new sort of Bell-diagonal states beyond the standard form.

id: 1203.0655
title: Localised projective measurement of a relativistic quantum field in non-inertial frames
authors: Andrzej Dragan, Jason Doukas, Eduardo Martin-Martinez, David Edward Bruschi
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. v2 Significant increase in the detail level regarding the motivation of the detector model
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 30 235006 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0655
abstract: We propose a scheme to study the effect of motion on measurements of a quantum field carried out by a finite-size detector. We introduce a model of projective detection of a localised field mode in an arbitrary reference frame. We apply it to extract vacuum entanglement by a pair of counter-accelerating detectors and to estimate the Unruh temperature of a single accelerated detector. The introduced method allows us to directly relate the observed effects with the instantaneous proper acceleration of the detector.

id: 1203.0658
title: Short coherent control pulse with small random errors in its direction
authors: Su Zhi-Kun, Jiang Shao-Ji
comments: 10 pages, another important result is given, see Eq.(28), Eq.(29) and Eq.(30)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0658
abstract: The finite-amplitude short coherent control pulse with small random errors in its direction is considered. We derive the conditions for it to approximate an ideal delta-shaped pulse up to an error in the second order of pulse duration. Whether the symmetric and asymmetric pulse shapes would fulfill these conditions is also analyzed. The result shows that, under one of these conditions, all symmetric pulse shapes can fulfill this condition but not for all asymmetric ones..

id: 1203.0722
title: Decomposition of orthogonal matrix and synthesis of two-qubit and three-qubit orthogonal gates
authors: Hai-Rui Wei, Yao-Min Di
comments: 7 pages,5 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 12, No. 3&4 (2012) 0262-0270
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0722
abstract: The decomposition of matrices associated to two-qubit and three-qubit orthogonal gates is studied, and based on the decomposition the synthesis of these gates is investigated. The optimal synthesis of general two-qubit orthogonal gate is obtained. For two-qubit unimodular orthogonal gate, it requires at most 2 CNOT gates and 6 one-qubit Ry gates. For the general three-qubit unimodular orthogonal gate, it can be synthesized by 16 CNOT gates and 36 one-qubit Ry and Rz gates in the worst case.

id: 1203.0739
title: Passive faraday mirror attack in practical two-way quantum key distribution system
authors: Shi-Hai Sun, Mu-Sheng Jiang, Lin-Mei Liang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062331 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0739
abstract: The faraday mirror (FM) plays a very important role in maintaining the stability of two way plug-and-play quantum key distribution (QKD) system. However, the practical FM is imperfect, which will not only introduce additional quantum bit error rate (QBER) but also leave a loophole for Eve to spy the secret key. In this paper, we propose a passive faraday mirror attack in two way QKD system based on the imperfection of FM. Our analysis shows that, if the FM is imperfect, the dimension of Hilbert space spanned by the four states sent by Alice is three instead of two. Thus Eve can distinguish these states with a set of POVM operators belonging to three dimension space, which will reduce the QBER induced by her attack. Furthermore, a relationship between the degree of the imperfection of FM and the transmittance of the practical QKD system is obtained. The results show that, the probability that Eve loads her attack successfully depends on the degree of the imperfection of FM rapidly, but the QBER induced by Eve's attack changes with the degree of the imperfection of FM slightly.

id: 1203.0776
title: Vibrational structures and long-lasting electronic coherence
authors: A. W. Chin, J. Prior, R. Rosenbach, F. Caycedo-Soler, S. F. Huelga, M. B. Plenio
comments: Now with numerical confirmation of effect for ambient temperatures
journal: Nature Physics 9, 113 - 118 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0776
abstract: Recent observations of beating signals in the excitation energy transfer dynamics of photosynthetic complexes have been interpreted as evidence for sustained coherences that are sufficiently long-lived for energy transport and coherence to coexist. The possibility that coherence may be exploited in biological processes has opened up new avenues of exploration at the interface of physics and biology. The microscopic origin of these long-lived coherences, however, remains to be uncovered. Here we present such a mechanism and verify it by numerically exact simulations of system-environment dynamics. Crucially, the non-trivial spectral structures of the environmental fluctuations and particularly discrete vibrational modes can lead to the generation and sustenance of both oscillatory energy transport and electronic coherence on timescales that are comparable to excitation energy transport. This suggests that the non-trivial structure of protein environments plays a more significant role for coherence in biological processes than previously believed.

id: 1203.0785
title: Quantum walk on distinguishable non-interacting many-particles and indistinguishable two-particle
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar, Th. Busch
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, To appear in special issue: "quantum walks" to be published in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing: Volume 11, Issue 5, Page 1287-1299 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0785
abstract: We present an investigation of many-particle quantum walks in systems of non-interacting distinguishable particles. Along with a redistribution of the many-particle density profile we show that the collective evolution of the many-particle system resembles the single-particle quantum walk evolution when the number of steps is greater than the number of particles in the system. For non-uniform initial states we show that the quantum walks can be effectively used to separate the basis states of the particle in position space and grouping like state together. We also discuss a two-particle quantum walk on a two- dimensional lattice and demonstrate an evolution leading to the localization of both particles at the center of the lattice. Finally we discuss the outcome of a quantum walk of two indistinguishable particles interacting at some point during the evolution.

id: 1203.0792
title: Micromotion in trapped atom-ion systems
authors: Le Huy Nguyen, Amir Kalev, Murray D. Barrett, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052718 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0792
abstract: We examine the validity of the harmonic approximation, where the radio-frequency ion trap is treated as a harmonic trap, in the problem regarding the controlled collision of a trapped atom and a single trapped ion. This is equivalent to studying the effect of the micromotion since this motion must be neglected for the trapped ion to be considered as a harmonic oscillator. By applying the transformation of Cook and Shankland we find that the micromotion can be represented by two periodically oscillating operators. In order to investigate the effect of the micromotion on the dynamics of a trapped atom-ion system, we calculate (i) the coupling strengths of the micromotion operators by numerical integration and (ii) the quasienergies of the system by applying the Floquet formalism, a useful framework for studying periodic systems. It turns out that the micromotion is not negligible when the distance between the atom and the ion traps is shorter than a characteristic distance. Within this range the energy diagram of the system changes remarkably when the micromotion is taken into account, which leads to undesirable consequences for applications that are based on an adiabatic process of the trapped atom-ion system. We suggest a simple scheme for bypassing the micromotion effect in order to successfully implement a quantum controlled phase gate proposed previously and create an atom-ion macromolecule. The methods presented here are not restricted to trapped atom-ion systems and can be readily applied to studying the micromotion effect in any system involving a single trapped ion.

id: 1203.0827
title: Optimal Probe Wavefunction of Weak-Value Amplification
authors: Yuki Susa, Yutaka Shikano, Akio Hosoya
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052110 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0827
abstract: The weak measurement proposed by Aharonov and his colleagues extracts information of a physical quantity of the system by the post selection as the shifts of the argument of the probe wavefunction. The shift is called the weak value and is larger for the post-selected state more orthogonal to the initial state. Recently, the signal amplification by the weak measurement has been extensively studied. In the present work, we explicitly obtain the optimal probe wavefunction and the amplification factor for a given weak value, which is calculated from the experimental setup. It is shown that the amplification factor has no upper bound in contrast to the Gaussian probe wavefunction and that the amplified signal is sharp.

id: 1203.0861
title: Weak mutually unbiased bases
authors: M. Shalaby, A. Vourdas
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A45, 052001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0861
abstract: Quantum systems with variables in ${\mathbb Z}(d)$ are considered. The properties of lines in the ${\mathbb Z}(d)\times {\mathbb Z}(d)$ phase space of these systems, are studied. Weak mutually unbiased bases in these systems are defined as bases for which the overlap of any two vectors in two different bases, is equal to $d^{-1/2}$ or alternatively to one of the $d_i^{-1/2},0$ (where $d_i$ is a divisor of $d$ apart from $d,1$). They are designed for the geometry of the ${\mathbb Z}(d)\times {\mathbb Z}(d)$ phase space, in the sense that there is a duality between the weak mutually unbiased bases and the maximal lines through the origin. In the special case of prime $d$, there are no divisors of $d$ apart from $1,d$ and the weak mutually unbiased bases are mutually unbiased bases.

id: 1203.0887
title: Indirect Controllability of Quantum Systems; A Study of Two Interacting Quantum Bits
authors: Domenico D'Alessandro, Raffaele Romano
comments: Paper to appear in final version in IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, Special issue on Quantum Control
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0887
abstract: A quantum mechanical system S is indirectly controlled when the control affects an ancillary system A and the evolution of S is modified through the interaction with A only. A study of indirect controllability gives a description of the set of states that can be obtained for S with this scheme. In this paper, we study the indirect controllability of quantum systems in the finite dimensional case. After discussing the relevant definitions, we give a general necessary condition for controllability in Lie algebraic terms. We present a detailed treatment of the case where both systems, S and A, are two-dimensional (qubits). In particular, we characterize the dynamical Lie algebra associated with S+A, extending previous results, and prove that complete controllability of S+A and an appropriate notion of indirect controllability are equivalent properties for this system. We also prove several further indirect controllability properties for the system of two qubits, and illustrate the role of the Lie algebraic analysis in the study of reachable states.

id: 1203.0911
title: Imperfect measurements settings: implications on quantum state tomography and entanglement witnesses
authors: Denis Rosset, Raphael Ferretti-Sch?bitz, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Nicolas Gisin, Yeong-Cherng Liang
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures. Key results moved from Appendices to main text, proofs strengthened, figures added and text corrected to aid readability
journal: Physical Review A 86, 062325 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0911
abstract: Reliable and well-characterized quantum resources are indispensable ingredients in quantum information processing. Typically, in a realistic characterization of these resources, apparatuses come with intrinsic uncertainties that can manifest themselves in the form of systematic errors. While systematic errors are generally accounted for through careful calibration, the effect of remaining imperfections on the characterization of quantum resources has been largely overlooked in the literature. In this paper, we investigate the effect of systematic errors that arise from imperfect alignment of measurement bases --- an error that can conceivably take place due to the limited controlability of measurement devices. We show that characterization of quantum resources using quantum state tomography or entanglement witnesses can be undermined with an amount of such imprecision that is not uncommon in laboratories. Curiously, for quantum state tomography, we find that having entanglement can help to reduce the susceptibility to this kind of error. We also briefly discuss how a given entanglement witness can be modified to incorporate the effect of such errors.

id: 1203.0927
title: Response to `Comment on "Experimental demonstration of a universally valid error-disturbance uncertainty relation in spin measurements" '
authors: Jacqueline Erhart, Stephan Sponar, Georg Sulyok, Gerald Badurek, Masanao Ozawa, Yuji Hasegawa
comments: 2 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0927
abstract: Here, we reply to the comment by Y. Kurihara. We show that the argument by the author is on an improper basis and thus disagree with his opinion.

id: 1203.0929
title: Stabilization of nonclassical states of one- and two-mode radiation fields by reservoir engineering
authors: A. Sarlette, Z. Leghtas, M. Brune, J. M. Raimond, P. Rouchon
comments: submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Phys.Rev.A vol. 86, pp. 012114 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0929
abstract: We analyze a quantum reservoir engineering method, originally introduced by [Sarlette et al. in Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 010402 (2011) -- arXiv 1011.5057], for the stabilization of non-classical field states in high quality cavities. We generalize the method to the protection of mesoscopic entangled field states shared by two non-degenerate field modes. The reservoir is made up of a stream of atoms undergoing successive composite interactions with the cavity, each combining resonant with non-resonant parts. We get a detailed insight into the competition between the engineered reservoir and decoherence. We show that the operation is quite insensitive to experimental imperfections and that it could thus be implemented in the near future, either in the context of microwave Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics or in that of circuit-QED.

id: 1203.0943
title: A note on symmetry reductions of the Lindblad equation: transport in constrained open spin chains
authors: Berislav Buca, Tomaz Prosen
comments: 14 pages with 5 pdf figures, revised version, as accepted by New Journal of Physics
journal: New Journal of Physics 14 (2012) 073007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0943
abstract: We study quantum transport properties of an open Heisenberg XXZ spin 1/2 chain driven by a pair of Lindblad jump operators satisfying a global `microcanonical' constraint, i.e. conserving the total magnetization. We will show that this system has an additional discrete symmetry which is particular to the Liouvillean description of the problem. Such symmetry reduces the dynamics even more than what would be expected in the standard Hilbert space formalism and establishes existence of multiple steady states. Interestingly, numerical simulations of the XXZ model suggest that a pair of distinct non-equilibrium steady states becomes indistinguishable in the thermodynamic limit, and exhibit sub-diffusive spin transport in the easy-axis regime of anisotropy Delta > 1.

id: 1203.0976
title: Influence of the spectral bandwidth in the entanglement of a nondegenerate parametric amplifier
authors: Ana M. Martins
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0976
abstract: We propose a simple model for the nondegenerate parametric inter- action that takes into account the finite spectral bandwidth of the pump wave. The Heisenberg equations of motion are solved exactly and we show that the bosonic operators obey to a generalized Bogoliubov transforma- tion, where the degree of squeezing depends on the spectral bandwidth. The average number of photons produced in the interaction, the degree of squeezing as well as the degree of entanglement are computed showing that they decrease with increasing spectral bandwidth.

id: 1203.0980
title: Experimental observation of impossible-to-beat quantum advantage on a hybrid photonic system
authors: Eleonora Nagali, Vincenzo D'Ambrosio, Fabio Sciarrino, Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108 (2012) 090501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0980
abstract: Quantum resources outperform classical ones for certain communication and computational tasks. Remarkably, in some cases, the quantum advantage cannot be improved using hypothetical postquantum resources. A class of tasks with this property can be singled out using graph theory. Here we report the experimental observation of an impossible-to-beat quantum advantage on a four-dimensional quantum system defined by the polarization and orbital angular momentum of a single photon. The results show pristine evidence of the quantum advantage and are compatible with the maximum advantage allowed using postquantum resources.

id: 1203.0981
title: Proposed experiments of qutrit state-independent contextuality and two-qutrit contextuality-based nonlocality
authors: Adan Cabello, Elias Amselem, Kate Blanchfield, Mohamed Bourennane, Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85 (2012) 032108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0981
abstract: Recent experiments have demonstrated ququart state-independent quantum contextuality and qutrit state-dependent quantum contextuality. So far, the most basic form of quantum contextuality pointed out by Kochen and Specker, and Bell, has eluded experimental confirmation. Here we present an experimentally feasible test to observe qutrit state-independent quantum contextuality using single photons in a three-path setup. In addition, we show that if the same measurements are performed on two entangled qutrits, rather than sequentially on the same qutrit, then the noncontextual inequality becomes a Bell inequality. We show that this connection also applies to other recently introduced noncontextual inequalities.

id: 1203.0993
title: Stationary and uniform entanglement distribution in qubit networks with quasi-local dissipation
authors: Morteza Rafiee, Cosmo Lupo, Hossein Mokhtari, Stefano Mancini
comments: 6 pages, comments welcome. v2: published version with typos corrected and updated bibliography
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042320 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0993
abstract: We consider qubit networks where adjacent qubits besides interacting via XY-coupling, also dissipate into the same environment. The steady states are computed exactly for all network sizes and topologies, showing that they are always symmetric under permutation of network sites, leading to a uniform distribution of the stationary entanglement across the network. The maximum entanglement between two arbitrary qubits is shown to depend only on the total number of qubits in the network, and scales linearly with it. A possible physical realization by means of an array of doped cavities is discussed for the case of a linear chain.

id: 1203.1099
title: Quantifying mixed-state quantum entanglement by optimal entanglement witness
authors: S.-S. B. Lee, H.-S. Sim
comments: Supplemental material is included
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022325 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1099
abstract: We develop an approach of quantifying entanglement in mixed quantum states by the optimal entanglement witness operator. We identify the convex set of mixed states for which a single witness provides the exact value of an entanglement measure, and show that the convexity, properties, and symmetries of entanglement or of a target state considerably fix the form of the optimal witness. This greatly reduces difficulty in computing and experimentally determining entanglement measures. As an example, we show how to experimentally quantify bound entanglement in four-qubit noisy Smolin states and three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) entanglement under white noise. For general measures and states, we provide a numerical method to efficiently optimize witness.

id: 1203.1114
title: Two quantum Simpson's paradoxes
authors: Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 132001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1114
abstract: The so-called Simpson's "paradox", or Yule-Simpson (YS) effect, occurs in classical statistics when the correlations that are present among different sets of samples are reversed if the sets are combined together, thus ignoring one or more lurking variables. Here we illustrate the occurrence of two analogue effects in quantum measurements. The first, which we term quantum-classical YS effect, may occur with quantum limited measurements and with lurking variables coming from the mixing of states, whereas the second, here referred to as quantum-quantum YS effect, may take place when coherent superpositions of quantum states are allowed. By analyzing quantum measurements on low dimensional systems (qubits and qutrits), we show that the two effects may occur independently, and that the quantum-quantum YS effect is more likely to occur than the corresponding quantum-classical one. We also found that there exist classes of superposition states for which the quantum-classical YS effect cannot occur for any measurement and, at the same time, the quantum-quantum YS effect takes place in a consistent fraction of the possible measurement settings. The occurrence of the effect in the presence of partial coherence is discussed as well as its possible implications for quantum hypothesis testing.

id: 1203.1121
title: Rotational optomechanical coupling of a spinning dielectric sphere
authors: H. K. Cheung, C. K. Law
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1121
abstract: We formulate a non-relativistic Hamiltonian in order to describe how the rotational degrees of freedom of a dielectric sphere and quantized light fields are coupled. Such an interaction is shown to take a form of angular momentum coupling governed by the field angular momentum inside the dielectric. As a specific example, we show that the coupling due to a single whispering gallery mode can lead to precession dynamics and frequency shifts of light.

id: 1203.1127
title: Homodyne estimation of Gaussian quantum discord
authors: R¨¦mi Blandino, Marco G. Genoni, Jean Etesse, Marco Barbieri, Matteo G. A. Paris, Philippe Grangier, Rosa Tualle-Brouri
comments: 5+3 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Physical Review Letters 109, 18 (2012) 180402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1127
abstract: We address the experimental estimation of Gaussian quantum discord for two-mode squeezed thermal state, and demonstrate a measurement scheme based on a pair of homodyne detectors assisted by Bayesian analysis which provides nearly optimal estimation for small value of discord. Besides, though homodyne detection is not optimal for Gaussian discord, the noise ratio to the ultimate quantum limit, as dictacted by the quantum Cramer-Rao bound, is limited to about 10 dB.

id: 1203.1139
title: EPR before EPR: a 1930 Einstein-Bohr thought experiment revisited
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 11 pages, revised, accepted for publication in Eur. J. Phys
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 33 (2012) 1089-1097
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1139
abstract: In 1930 Einstein argued against consistency of the time-energy uncertainty relation by discussing a thought experiment involving a measurement of mass of the box which emitted a photon. Bohr seemingly triumphed over Einstein by arguing that the Einstein's own general theory of relativity saves the consistency of quantum mechanics. We revisit this thought experiment from a modern point of view at a level suitable for undergraduate readership and find that neither Einstein nor Bohr was right. Instead, this thought experiment should be thought of as an early example of a system demonstrating nonlocal "EPR" quantum correlations, five years before the famous Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paper.

id: 1203.1148
title: Oscillations in Quantum Entanglement During Rescattering
authors: Attila Czirjak, Szilard Majorosi, Judit Kovacs, Mihaly G. Benedict
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1148
abstract: We study the time evolution of quantum entanglement between an electron and its parent ion during the rescattering due to a strong few-cycle laser pulse. Based on a simple one-dimensional model, we compute the Neumann entropy during the process for several values of the carrier-envelope phase. The local maxima of the oscillations in the Neumann entropy coincide with the zero crossings of the electric field of the laser pulse. We employ the Wigner function to qualitatively explain the quantum dynamics of rescattering in the phase space.

id: 1203.1197
title: Distributed super dense coding over noisy channels
authors: Zahra Shadman, Hermann Kampermann, Chiara Macchiavello, Dagmar Bruss
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1197
abstract: We study multipartite super dense coding in the presence of a covariant noisy channel. We investigate the case of many senders and one receiver, considering both unitary and non-unitary encoding. We study the scenarios where the senders apply local encoding or global encoding. We show that, up to some pre-processing on the original state, the senders cannot do better encoding than local, unitary encoding. We then introduce general Pauli channels as a significant example of covariant maps. Considering Pauli channels, we provide examples for which the super dense coding capacity is explicitly determined.

id: 1203.1231
title: Classical Casimir interaction in the plane-sphere geometry
authors: Antoine Canaguier-Durand, Gert-Ludwig Ingold, Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Astrid Lambrecht, Paulo A. Maia Neto, Serge Reynaud
comments: Updated version with minor modifications and addition of a reference
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85 (2012) 052501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1231
abstract: We study the Casimir interaction in the plane-sphere geometry in the classical limit of high temperatures. In this limit, the finite conductivity of the metallic plates needs to be taken into account. For the Drude model, the classical Casimir interaction is nevertheless found to be independent of the conductivity so that it can be described by a single universal function depending only on the aspect ratio $x=L/R$ where $L$ is the interplate distance and $R$ the sphere radius. This universal function differs from the one found for perfect reflectors and is in principle amenable to experimental tests. The asymptotic approach of the exact result to the Proximity Force Approximation appears to be well fitted by polynomial expansions in $\ln x$.

id: 1203.1239
title: Accessible nonlinear entanglement witnesses
authors: Juan Miguel Arrazola, Oleg Gittsovich, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85 062327 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1239
abstract: Verification of entanglement is an important tool to characterize sources and devices for use in quantum computing and communication applications. In a vast majority of experiments entanglement witnesses (EW) are used in order to prove the presence of entanglement in a quantum state. EWs can be constructed from available measurement results and do not require a reconstruction of the whole density matrix (full tomography), which is especially valuable for high-dimensional systems. We provide a method to construct {\it accessible nonlinear EWs}, which incorporate two important properties. First, they improve on linear EWs in the sense that each non-linear EW detects more entangled states than its linear counterpart and therefore allow the verification of entanglement without critical dependence on having found the 'right' linear witness. Second, they can be evaluated using exactly the same data as for the evaluation of the original linear witness. This allows a reanalysis of published experimental data to strengthen statements about entanglement verification without the requirement to perform additional measurements. These particular properties make the accessible nonlinear EWs attractive for the implementations in current experiments, for they can also enhance the statistical significance of the entanglement verification.

id: 1203.1264
title: Quantum cost for sending entanglement
authors: Alexander Streltsov, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?
comments: Added a reference to the related article arXiv:1203.1268 by T. K. Chuan et al
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 250501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1264
abstract: Establishing quantum entanglement between two distant parties is an essential step of many protocols in quantum information processing. One possibility for providing long-distance entanglement is to create an entangled composite state within a lab and then physically send one subsystem to a distant lab. However, is this the "cheapest" way? Here, we investigate the minimal "cost" that is necessary for establishing a certain amount of entanglement between two distant parties. We prove that this cost is intrinsically quantum, and is specified by quantum correlations. Our results provide an optimal protocol for entanglement distribution and show that quantum correlations are the essential resource for this task.

id: 1203.1268
title: Quantum discord bounds the amount of distributed entanglement
authors: T. K. Chuan, J. Maillard, K. Modi, T. Paterek, M. Paternostro, M. Piani
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX4; Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 070501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1268
abstract: The ability to distribute quantum entanglement is a prerequisite for many fundamental tests of quantum theory and numerous quantum information protocols. Two distant parties can increase the amount of entanglement between them by means of quantum communication encoded in a carrier that is sent from one party to the other. Intriguingly, entanglement can be increased even when the exchanged carrier is not entangled with the parties. However, in light of the defining property of entanglement stating that it cannot increase under classical communication, the carrier must be quantum. Here we show that, in general, the increase of relative entropy of entanglement between two remote parties is bounded by the amount of non-classical correlations of the carrier with the parties as quantified by the relative entropy of discord. We study implications of this bound, provide new examples of entanglement distribution via unentangled states and put further limits on this phenomenon.

id: 1203.1285
title: Analytical results for the Morse potential in s-wave ultracold scattering: three dimensional vs. one dimensional problem
authors: Asaf Paris-Mandoki, Roc¨ªo J¨¢uregui
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1285
abstract: Taking advantage of the known analytic expression of the eigenfunctions and eigenenergies of the Morse Hamiltonian, explicit expressions are found for the scattering length $a$ and the effective range $r_e$ which determine the s-wave scattering of ultracold atoms. The effects on $a$ and $r_e$ of considering the radial coordinate in the interval $[0,\infty)$ or in the extended region $(-\infty, \infty)$ are studied in detail.

id: 1203.1331
title: Introduction to Quantum Algorithms for Physics and Chemistry
authors: Man-Hong Yung, James D. Whitfield, Sergio Boixo, David G. Tempel, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 44 pages, 5 figures; comments or suggestions for improvement are welcome
journal: Advances in Chemical Physics Volume 154 (ed S. Kais), John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1331
abstract: In this introductory review, we focus on applications of quantum computation to problems of interest in physics and chemistry. We describe quantum simulation algorithms that have been developed for electronic-structure problems, thermal-state preparation, simulation of time dynamics, adiabatic quantum simulation, and density functional theory.

id: 1203.1345
title: PT-symmetry breaking and universal chirality in a PT-symmetric ring
authors: Derek D. Scott, Yogesh N. Joglekar
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062105 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1345
abstract: We investigate the properties of an $N$-site tight-binding lattice with periodic boundary condition (PBC) in the presence of a pair of gain and loss impurities $\pm i\gamma$, and two tunneling amplitudes $t_0,t_b$ that are constant along the two paths that connect them. We show that the parity and time-reversal ($\mP\mT$)-symmetric phase of the lattice with PBC is robust, insensitive to the distance between the impurities, and that the critical impurity strength for PT-symmetry breaking is given by $\gamma_{PT}=|t_0-t_b|$. We study the time-evolution of a typical wave packet, initially localized on a single site, across the PT-symmetric phase boundary. We find that it acquires chirality with increasing $\gamma$, and the chirality reaches a universal maximum value at the threshold, $\gamma=\gamma_{PT}$, irrespective of the initial location of the wave packet or the lattice parameters. Our results imply that PT-symmetry breaking on a lattice with PBC has consequences that have no counterpart in open chains.

id: 1203.1352
title: Logical Bell Inequalities
authors: Samson Abramsky, Lucien Hardy
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062114 (2012) [11 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1352
abstract: Bell inequalities play a central role in the study of quantum non-locality and entanglement, with many applications in quantum information. Despite the huge literature on Bell inequalities, it is not easy to find a clear conceptual answer to what a Bell inequality is, or a clear guiding principle as to how they may be derived. In this paper, we introduce a notion of logical Bell inequality which can be used to systematically derive testable inequalities for a very wide variety of situations. There is a single clear conceptual principle, based on purely logical consistency conditions, which underlies our notion of logical Bell inequalities. We show that in a precise sense, all Bell inequalities can be taken to be of this form. Our approach is very general. It applies directly to any family of sets of commuting observables. Thus it covers not only the n-partite scenarios to which Bell inequalities are standardly applied, but also Kochen-Specker configurations, and many other examples. There is much current work on experimental tests for contextuality. Our approach directly yields, in a systematic fashion, testable inequalities for a very general notion of contextuality. There has been much work on obtaining proofs of Bell's theorem `without inequalities' or `without probabilities'. These proofs are seen as being in a sense more definitive and logically robust than the inequality-based proofs. On the hand, they lack the fault-tolerant aspect of inequalities. Our approach reconciles these aspects, and in fact shows how the logical robustness can be converted into systematic, general derivations of inequalities with provable violations. Moreover, the kind of strong non-locality or contextuality exhibited by the GHZ argument or by Kochen-Specker configurations can be shown to lead to maximal violations of the corresponding logical Bell inequalities.

id: 1203.1402
title: Eigenmode description of Raman scattering in atomic vapors in the presence of decoherence
authors: Jan Kolodynski, Jan Chwedenczuk, Wojciech Wasilewski
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013818 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1402
abstract: A theoretical model describing the Raman scattering process in atomic vapors is constructed. The treatment investigates the low-excitation regime suitable for modern experimental applications. Despite the incorporated decoherence effects (possibly mode dependent) it allows for a direct separation of the time evolution from the spatial degrees of freedom. The impact of noise on the temporal properties of the process is examined. The model is applied in two experimentally relevant situations of ultra-cold and room-temperature atoms. The spatial eigenmodes of the Stokes photons and their coupling to atomic excitations are computed. Similarly, dynamics and the waveform of the collective atomic state are derived for quantum memory implementations.

id: 1203.1445
title: Can bipartite classical information resources be activated?
authors: Giuseppe Prettico, Antonio Acin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1445
abstract: Non-additivity is one of the distinctive traits of Quantum Information Theory: the combined use of quantum objects may be more advantageous than the sum of their individual uses. Non-additivity effects have been proven, for example, for quantum channel capacities, entanglement distillation or state estimation. In this work, we consider whether non-additivity effects can be found in Classical Information Theory. We work in the secret-key agreement scenario in which two honest parties, having access to correlated classical data that are also correlated to an eavesdropper, aim at distilling a secret key. Exploiting the analogies between the entanglement and the secret-key agreement scenario, we provide some evidence that the secret-key rate may be a non-additive quantity. In particular, we show that correlations with conjectured bound information become secret-key distillable when combined. Our results constitute a new instance of the subtle relation between the entanglement and secret-key agreement scenario.

id: 1203.1455
title: Macroscopic displaced thermal field as the entanglement catalyst
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: Quantum Information & Computation Volume 7 Issue 8, November 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1455
abstract: We show that entanglement of multiple atoms can arise via resonant interaction with a displaced thermal field with a macroscopic photon-number. The cavity field acts as the catalyst, which is disentangled with the atomic system after the operation. Remarkably, the entanglement speed does not decrease as the average photon-number of the mixed thermal state increases. The atoms may evolve to a highly entangled state even when the photon-number of the cavity mode approaches infinity.

id: 1203.1458
title: Macroscopic superposition and entanglement for displaced thermal fields induced by a single atom
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032114 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1458
abstract: We show that a cavity field can evolve from an initial displaced mixed thermal state to a macroscopic superpositions of displaced thermal states via resonant interaction with a two-level atom. As a macroscopic system (meter) is really in a mixed state before coupling with the microscopic system at some temperature, our result is important for studying the quantum measurement problem and decoherence under real conditions. For the two-mode case, entanglement of displaced thermal states between the modes can be obtained.

id: 1203.1504
title: Simple refutation of Joy Christian's simple refutation of Bell's simple theorem
authors: Richard D. Gill
comments: 4th version: added postscript and further references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Applications (stat.AP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1504
abstract: I point out a simple algebraic error in Joy Christian's refutation of Bell's theorem. In substituting the result of multiplying some derived bivectors with one another by consultation of their multiplication table, he confuses the generic vectors which he used to define the table, with other specific vectors having a special role in the paper, which had been introduced earlier. The result should be expressed in terms of the derived bivectors which indeed do follow this multiplication table. When correcting this calculation, the result is not the singlet correlation any more. Moreover, curiously, his normalized correlations are independent of the number of measurements and certainly do not require letting n converge to infinity. On the other hand his unnormalized or raw correlations are identically equal to -1, independently of the number of measurements too. Correctly computed, his standardized correlations are the bivectors - a . b - a x b, and they find their origin entirely in his normalization or standardization factors. I conclude that his research program has been set up around an elaborately hidden but trivial mistake.

id: 1203.1512
title: Macroscopic Observables Detecting Genuine Multipartite Entanglement and Partial Inseparability in Many-Body Systems
authors: Andreas Gabriel, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published version, title extended
journal: EPL, 101 (2013) 30003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1512
abstract: We show a general approach for detecting genuine multipartite entanglement (GME) and partial inseparability in many-body-systems by means of macroscopic observables (such as the energy) only. We show that the obtained criteria, the "GME gap" and "the k-entanglement gap", detect large areas of genuine multipartite entanglement and partial entanglement in typical many body states, which are not detected by other criteria. As genuine multipartite entanglement is a necessary property for several quantum information theoretic applications such as e.g. secret sharing or certain kinds of quantum computation, our methods can be used to select or design appropriate condensed matter systems.

id: 1203.1537
title: Information communicated by entangled photon pairs
authors: Thomas Brougham, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Phys Rev A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1537
abstract: A key goal of quantum communication is to determine the maximum number of bits shared between two quantum systems. An important example of this is in entanglement based quantum key distribution (QKD) schemes. A realistic treatment of this general communication problem must take account of the nonideal nature of the entanglement source and the detectors. The aim of this paper is to give such a treatment. We obtain analytic expression for the mutual information in terms of experimental parameters. The results are applied to communication schemes that rely on spontaneous parametric down conversion to generate entangled photons. We show that our results can be applied to tasks such as calculating the optimal rate of bits per photon in high dimensional time bin encoded QKD protocols (prior to privacy amplification). A key finding for such protocols is that by using realistic experimental parameters, one can obtain over 10 bits per photon. We also show how our results can be applied to characterize the capacity of a fibre array and to quantify entanglement using mutual information.

id: 1203.1610
title: Global Level Number Variance in Integrable Systems
authors: Tao Ma, R.A. Serota
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1610
abstract: We study previously un-researched second order statistics - correlation function of spectral staircase and global level number variance - in generic integrable systems with no extra degeneracies. We show that the global level number variance oscillates persistently around the saturation spectral rigidity. Unlike other second order statistics - including correlation function of spectral staircase - which are calculated over energy scales much smaller than the running spectral energy, these oscillations cannot be explained within the diagonal approximation framework of the periodic orbit theory. We give detailed numerical illustration of our results using four integrable systems: rectangular billiard, modified Kepler problem, circular billiard and elliptic billiard.

id: 1203.1629
title: Quantum discord as resource for remote state preparation
authors: Borivoje Dakic, Yannick Ole Lipp, Xiaosong Ma, Martin Ringbauer, Sebastian Kropatschek, Stefanie Barz, Tomasz Paterek, Vlatko Vedral, Anton Zeilinger, Caslav Brukner, Philip Walther
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, journal reference added
journal: Nature Physics 8, 666-670 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1629
abstract: Quantum entanglement is widely recognized as one of the key resources for the advantages of quantum information processing, including universal quantum computation, reduction of communication complexity or secret key distribution. However, computational models have been discovered, which consume very little or no entanglement and still can efficiently solve certain problems thought to be classically intractable. The existence of these models suggests that separable or weakly entangled states could be extremely useful tools for quantum information processing as they are much easier to prepare and control even in dissipative environments. It has been proposed that a requirement for useful quantum states is the generation of so-called quantum discord, a measure of non-classical correlations that includes entanglement as a subset. Although a link between quantum discord and few quantum information tasks has been studied, its role in computation speed-up is still open and its operational interpretation remains restricted to only few somewhat contrived situations. Here we show that quantum discord is the optimal resource for the remote quantum state preparation, a variant of the quantum teleportation protocol. Using photonic quantum systems, we explicitly show that the geometric measure of quantum discord is related to the fidelity of this task, which provides an operational meaning. Moreover, we demonstrate that separable states with non-zero quantum discord can outperform entangled states. Therefore, the role of quantum discord might provide fundamental insights for resource-efficient quantum information processing.

id: 1203.1635
title: Spin bath narrowing with adaptive parameter estimation
authors: Paola Cappellaro
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 030301(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1635
abstract: We present a measurement scheme capable of achieving the quantum limit of parameter estimation using an adaptive strategy that minimizes the parameter's variance at each step. The adaptive rule we propose makes the scheme robust against errors, in particular imperfect readouts, a critical requirement to extend adaptive schemes from quantum optics to solid-state sensors. Thanks to recent advances in single-shot readout capabilities for electronic spins in the solid state (such as Nitrogen Vacancy centers in diamond), this scheme can be as well applied to estimate the polarization of a spin bath coupled to the sensor spin. In turns, the measurement process decreases the entropy of the spin bath resulting in longer coherence times of the sensor spin.

id: 1203.1675
title: Experimental proposal for symmetric minimal two-qubit state tomography
authors: Amir Kalev, Jiangwei Shang, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052115 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1675
abstract: We propose an experiment that realizes a symmetric informationally complete (SIC) probability-operator measurement (POM) in the four-dimensional Hilbert space of a qubit pair. The qubit pair is carried by a single photon as a polarization qubit and a path qubit. The implementation of the SIC POM is accomplished with the means of linear optics. The experimental scheme exploits a new approach to SIC POMs that uses a two-step process: a measurement with full-rank outcomes, followed by a projective measurement on a basis that is chosen in accordance with the result of the first measurement. The basis of the first measurement and the four bases of the second measurements are pairwise unbiased --- a hint at a possibly profound link between SIC POMs and mutually unbiased bases.

id: 1203.1677
title: Symmetric minimal quantum tomography by successive measurements
authors: Amir Kalev, Jiangwei Shang, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052116 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1677
abstract: We consider the implementation of a symmetric informationally complete probability-operator measurement (SIC POM) in the Hilbert space of a d-level system by a two-step measurement process: a diagonal-operator measurement with high-rank outcomes, followed by a rank-1 measurement in a basis chosen in accordance with the result of the first measurement. We find that any Heisenberg-Weyl group-covariant SIC POM can be realized by such a sequence where the second measurement is simply a measurement in the Fourier basis, independent of the result of the first measurement. Furthermore, at least for the particular cases studied, of dimension 2, 3, 4, and 8, this scheme reveals an unexpected operational relation between mutually unbiased bases and SIC POMs; the former are used to construct the latter. As a laboratory application of the two-step measurement process, we propose feasible optical experiments that would realize SIC POMs in various dimensions.

id: 1203.1706
title: Quantum Measurement Theory in Gravitational-Wave Detectors
authors: Stefan L. Danilishin, Farid Ya. Khalili
comments: 147 pages, 46 figures, 1 table. Published in Living Reviews in Relativity
journal: Living Rev. Relativity 15 (2012), 5
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1706
abstract: The fast progress in improving the sensitivity of the gravitational-wave (GW) detectors, we all have witnessed in the recent years, has propelled the scientific community to the point, when quantum behaviour of such immense measurement devices as kilometer-long interferometers starts to matter. The time, when their sensitivity will be mainly limited by the quantum noise of light is round the corner, and finding the ways to reduce it will become a necessity. Therefore, the primary goal we pursued in this review was to familiarize a broad spectrum of readers with the theory of quantum measurements in the very form it finds application in the area of gravitational-wave detection. We focus on how quantum noise arises in gravitational-wave interferometers and what limitations it imposes on the achievable sensitivity. We start from the very basic concepts and gradually advance to the general linear quantum measurement theory and its application to the calculation of quantum noise in the contemporary and planned interferometric detectors of gravitational radiation of the first and second generation. Special attention is paid to the concept of Standard Quantum Limit and the methods of its surmounting.

id: 1203.1722
title: Inelastic Multiple Scattering of Interacting Bosons in Weak Random Potentials
authors: Tobias Geiger, Thomas Wellens, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, very close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 030601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1722
abstract: We develop a diagrammatic scattering theory for interacting bosons in a three-dimensional, weakly disordered potential. We show how collisional energy transfer between the bosons induces the thermalization of the inelastic single-particle current which, after only few collision events, dominates over the elastic contribution described by the Gross-Pitaevskii ansatz.

id: 1203.1747
title: A semirelativistic treatment of spinless particles subject to the Yukawa potential with arbitrary angular momenta
authors: Majid Hamzavi, Sameer M. Ikhdair, M. Solaimani
comments: 15 pages, 2 Figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. E 21 (2) (2012) 1250016-13
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1747
abstract: We obtain analytical solutions of the two-body spinless Salpeter (SS) equation with Yukawa potential within the conventional approximation scheme to the centrifugal term for any -state. The semi-relativistic bound state energy spectra and the corresponding normalized wave functions are calculated by means of the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method. We also obtain the numerical energy spectrum of the SS equation without any approximation to centrifugal term for the same potential and compare them with the approximated numerical ones obtained from the analytical expressions. It is found that the exact numerical results are in good agreement with the approximated ones for the lower energy states. Special cases are treated like the nonrelativistic limit and the solution for the Coulomb problem.

id: 1203.1756
title: Evolution of Quantum Discord and its Stability in Two-Qubit NMR Systems
authors: Hemant Katiyar, Soumya Singha Roy, T. S. Mahesh, Apoorva Patel
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, Phys. Rev. A (in press)
journal: PhysRevA.86.012309(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1756
abstract: We investigate evolution of quantum correlations in ensembles of two-qubit nuclear spin systems via nuclear magnetic resonance techniques. We use discord as a measure of quantum correlations and the Werner state as an explicit example. We first introduce different ways of measuring discord and geometric discord in two-qubit systems and then describe the following experimental studies: (a) We quantitatively measure discord for Werner-like states prepared using an entangling pulse sequence. An initial thermal state with zero discord is gradually and periodically transformed into a mixed state with maximum discord. The experimental and simulated behavior of rise and fall of discord agree fairly well. (b) We examine the efficiency of dynamical decoupling sequences in preserving quantum correlations. In our experimental setup, the dynamical decoupling sequences preserved the traceless parts of the density matrices at high fidelity. But they could not maintain the purity of the quantum states and so were unable to keep the discord from decaying. (c) We observe the evolution of discord for a singlet-triplet mixed state during a radio-frequency spin-lock. A simple relaxation model describes the evolution of discord, and the accompanying evolution of fidelity of the long-lived singlet state, reasonably well.

id: 1203.1811
title: Quasicondensation reexamined
authors: Przemyslaw Bienias, Krzysztof Pawlowski, Mariusz Gajda, Kazimierz Rzazewski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1811
abstract: We study in detail the effect of quasicondensation. We show that this effect is strictly related to dimensionality of the system. It is present in one dimensional systems independently of interactions - exists in repulsive, attractive or in non-interacting Bose gas in some range of temperatures below characteristic temperature of the quantum degeneracy. Based on this observation we analyze the quasicondensation in terms of a ratio of the two largest eigenvalues of the single particle density matrix for the ideal gas. We show that in the thermodynamic limit in higher dimensions the second largest eigenvalue vanishes (as compared to the first one) with total number of particles as $\simeq N^{-\gamma}$ whereas goes to zero only logarithmically in one dimension. We also study the effect of quasicondensation for various geometries of the system: from quasi-1D elongated one, through spherically symmetric 3D case to quasi-2D pancake-like geometry.

id: 1203.1857
title: Nonequilibrium phases in hybrid arrays with flux qubits and NV centers
authors: Thomas H¨¹mmer, Georg M. Reuther, Peter H?nggi, David Zueco
comments: Version to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052320 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1857
abstract: We propose a startling hybrid quantum architecture for simulating a localization-delocalization transition. The concept is based on an array of superconducting flux qubits which are coupled to a diamond crystal containing nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers. The underlying description is a Jaynes-Cummings-lattice in the strong-coupling regime. However, in contrast to well-studied coupled cavity arrays the interaction between lattice sites is mediated here by the qubit rather than by the oscillator degrees of freedom. Nevertheless, we point out that a transition between a localized and a delocalized phase occurs in this system as well. We demonstrate the possibility of monitoring this transition in a non-equilibrium scenario, including decoherence effects. The proposed scheme allows the monitoring of localization-delocalization transitions in Jaynes-Cummings-lattices by use of currently available experimental technology. Contrary to cavity-coupled lattices, our proposed recourse to stylized qubit networks facilitates (i) to investigate localization-delocalization transitions in arbitrary dimensions and (ii) to tune the inter-site coupling in-situ.

id: 1203.1885
title: Model of a PT symmetric Bose-Einstein condensate in a delta-functions double well
authors: Holger Cartarius, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures (one redundant figure removed), minor changes in the discussion
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013612 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1885
abstract: The observation of PT symmetry in a coupled optical wave guide system that involves a complex refractive index has been demonstrated impressively in the experiment by R\"uter el al. (Nat. Phys. 6, 192, 2010). This is, however, only an optical analogue of a quantum system, and it would be highly desirable to observe the manifestation of PT symmetry and the resulting properties also in a real, experimentally accessible, quantum system. Following a suggestion by Klaiman et al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 080402, 2008), we investigate a PT symmetric arrangement of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a double well potential, where in one well cold atoms are injected while in the other particles are extracted from the condensate. We investigate, in particular, the effects of the nonlinearity in the Gross-Pitaevskii equation on the PT properties of the condensate. To study these effects we analyze a simple one-dimensional model system in which the condensate is placed into two PT symmetric delta-function traps. The analysis will serve as a useful guide for studies of the behaviour of Bose-Einstein condensates in realistic PT symmetric double wells.

id: 1203.1920
title: Field locked to Fock state by quantum feedback with single photon corrections
authors: X. Zhou, I. Dotsenko, B. Peaudecerf, T. Rybarczyk, C. Sayrin, S. Gleyzes, J.M. Raimond, M. Brune, S. Haroche
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett.108, 243602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1920
abstract: Fock states with photon numbers n up to 7 are prepared on demand in a microwave superconducting cavity by a quantum feedback procedure which reverses decoherence-induced quantum jumps. Circular Rydberg atoms are used as quantum non-demolition sensors or as single photon emitter/absorber actuators. The quantum nature of these actuators matches the correction of single-photon quantum jumps due to relaxation. The flexibility of this method is suited to the generation of arbitrary sequences of Fock states.

id: 1203.1977
title: Quantum Optomechanics beyond Linearization
authors: Bing He
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures; the version to be published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063820 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1977
abstract: The quantum dynamics of optomechanical systems was mostly studied for their fluctuations around classical steady states. We present a theoretical approach to determining the system observables of optomechanical systems as genuine quantum objects, for example, a coupled quantum mechanical oscillator to a cavity single photon. In this approach we study the dynamics of such systems in strong coupling regime. We find that, under strong optomechanical coupling, steady quantum states of optomechanical systems driven by continuous-wave single photons exhibit periodic oscillation and cavity noise considerably affects system observables.

id: 1203.1980
title: Asymmetric EPR entanglement in continuous variable systems
authors: Katherine Wagner, Jiri Janousek, Seiji Armstrong, Jean-Francois Morizur, Ping Koy Lam, Hans-Albert Bachor
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1980
abstract: Continuous variable entanglement can be produced in nonlinear systems or via interference of squeezed states. In many of optical systems, such as parametric down conversion or interference of optical squeezed states, production of two perfectly symmetric subsystems is usually used for demonstrating the existence of entanglement. This symmetry simplifies the description of the concept of entanglement. However, asymmetry in entanglement may arise naturally in a real experiment, or be intentionally introduced in a given quantum information protocol. These asymmetries can emerge from having the output beams experience different losses and environmental contamination, or from the availability of non-identical input quantum states in quantum communication protocols. In this paper, we present a visualisation of entanglement using quadrature amplitude plots of the twin beams. We quantitatively discuss the strength of asymmetric entanglement using EPR and inseparability criteria and theoretically show that the optimal beamsplitter ratio for entanglement is dependent on the asymmetries and may not be 50/50. To support this theory, we present experimental results showing one particular asymmetric entanglement where a 0.78/0.22 beamsplitter is optimal for observing entanglement.

id: 1203.1999
title: Quantum Walks of SU(2)_k Anyons on a Ladder
authors: L. Lehman, D. Ellinas, G.K. Brennen
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience, 10, 1634-1643 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1999
abstract: We study the effects of braiding interactions on single anyon dynamics using a quantum walk model on a quasi-1-dimensional ladder filled with stationary anyons. The model includes loss of information of the coin and nonlocal fusion degrees of freedom on every second time step, such that the entanglement between the position states and the exponentially growing auxiliary degrees of freedom is lost. The computational complexity of numerical calculations reduces drastically from the fully coherent anyonic quantum walk model, allowing for relatively long simulations for anyons which are spin-1/2 irreps of SU(2)_k Chern-Simons theory. We find that for Abelian anyons, the walk retains the ballistic spreading velocity just like particles with trivial braiding statistics. For non-Abelian anyons, the numerical results indicate that the spreading velocity is linearly dependent on the number of time steps. By approximating the Kraus generators of the time evolution map by circulant matrices, it is shown that the spatial probability distribution for the k=2 walk, corresponding to Ising model anyons, is equal to the classical unbiased random walk distribution.

id: 1203.2023
title: Approximate k-state solutions to the Dirac-Yukawa problem based on the spin and pseudospin symmetry
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. 10 (2) (2012) 361-381
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2023
abstract: Using an approximation scheme to deal with the centrifugal (pseudo-centrifugal) term, we solve the Dirac equation with the screened Coulomb (Yukawa) potential for any arbitrary spin-orbit quantum number {\kappa}. Based on the spin and pseudospin symmetry, analytic bound state energy spectrum formulas and their corresponding upper- and lower-spinor components of two Dirac particles are obtained using a shortcut of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. We find a wide range of permissible values for the spin symmetry constant C_{s} from the valence energy spectrum of particle and also for pseudospin symmetry constant C_{ps} from the hole energy spectrum of antiparticle. Further, we show that the present potential interaction becomes less (more) attractive for a long (short) range screening parameter {\alpha}. To remove the degeneracies in energy levels we consider the spin and pseudospin solution of Dirac equation for Yukawa potential plus a centrifugal-like term. A few special cases such as the exact spin (pseudospin) symmetry Dirac-Yukawa, the Yukawa plus centrifugal-like potentials, the limit when {\alpha} becomes zero (Coulomb potential field) and the non-relativistic limit of our solution are studied. The nonrelativistic solutions are compared with those obtained by other methods.

id: 1203.2036
title: Effective Schroedinger equation with general ordering ambiguity position-dependent mass Morse potential
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0706.2371
journal: Molecular Physics 110 (13) (2012) 1415-1428
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2036
abstract: We solve the parametric generalized effective Schr\"odinger equation with a specific choice of posi-tion-dependent mass function and Morse oscillator potential by means of the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method combined with the Pekeris approximation scheme. All bound-state energies are found explicitly and all corresponding radial wave functions are built analytically. We choose the Weyl or Li and Kuhn ordering for the ambiguity parameters in our numerical work to calculate the energy spectrum for a few and diatomic molecules with arbitrary vibration and rotation quantum numbers and different position-dependent mass functions. Two special cases including the constant mass and the vibration s-wave (l =0) are also investigated.

id: 1203.2094
title: Collective Light Emission of a Finite Size Atomic Chain
authors: Hashem Zoubi
comments: 10 pages, 20 figures
journal: EPL 100, 24002 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2094
abstract: Radiative properties of collective electronic states in a one dimensional atomic chain are investigated. Radiative corrections are included with emphasize put on the effect of the chain size through the dependence on both the number of atoms and the lattice constant. The damping rates of collective states are calculated in considering radiative effects for different values of the lattice constant relative to the atomic transition wave length. Especially the symmetric state damping rate as a function of the number of the atoms is derived. The emission pattern off a finite linear chain is also presented. The results can be adopted for any chain of active material, e.g., a chain of semiconductor quantum dots or organic molecules on a linear matrix.

id: 1203.2099
title: Quantum metrology for non-linear phase shifts with entangled coherent states
authors: Jaewoo Joo, Kimin Park, Hyunseok Jeong, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto, Timothy P. Spiller
comments: 7 pages and 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043828 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2099
abstract: We investigate the phase enhancement of quantum states subject to non-linear phase shifts. The optimal phase estimation of even entangled coherent states (ECSs) is shown to be better than that of NOON states and of odd ECS states with the same average particle number <n> and non-linearity exponent k. We investigate the creation of approximate ECSs (AECSs) from a squeezed vacuum with current optical technology methods and find that a pure AECS is even slightly better than an even ECS for large <n>. We also examine simple but physically relevant cases of loss in the non-linear interferometer arm, for a fixed <n>.

id: 1203.2135
title: On the feasibility of a nuclear exciton laser
authors: Nicolai ten Brinke, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, Dietrich Habs
comments: 7 pages RevTeX, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2135
abstract: Nuclear excitons known from M\"ossbauer spectroscopy describe coherent excitations of a large number of nuclei -- analogous to Dicke states (or Dicke super-radiance) in quantum optics. In this paper, we study the possibility of constructing a laser based on these coherent excitations. In contrast to the free electron laser (in its usual design), such a device would be based on stimulated emission and thus might offer certain advantages, e.g., regarding energy-momentum accuracy. Unfortunately, inserting realistic parameters, the window of operability is probably not open (yet) to present-day technology -- but our design should be feasible in the UV regime, for example.

id: 1203.2142
title: A Framework for Non-Asymptotic Quantum Information Theory
authors: Marco Tomamichel
comments: PhD thesis, Department of Physics, ETH Zurich
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2142
abstract: This thesis consolidates, improves and extends the smooth entropy framework for non-asymptotic information theory and cryptography. We investigate the conditional min- and max-entropy for quantum states, generalizations of classical R\'enyi entropies. We introduce the purified distance, a novel metric for unnormalized quantum states and use it to define smooth entropies as optimizations of the min- and max-entropies over a ball of close states. We explore various properties of these entropies, including data-processing inequalities, chain rules and their classical limits. The most important property is an entropic formulation of the asymptotic equipartition property, which implies that the smooth entropies converge to the von Neumann entropy in the limit of many independent copies. The smooth entropies also satisfy duality and entropic uncertainty relations that provide limits on the power of two different observers to predict the outcome of a measurement on a quantum system. Finally, we discuss three example applications of the smooth entropy framework. We show a strong converse statement for source coding with quantum side information, characterize randomness extraction against quantum side information and prove information theoretic security of quantum key distribution using an intuitive argument based on the entropic uncertainty relation.

id: 1203.2149
title: Cooperative effects in nuclear excitation with coherent x-ray light
authors: Andr¨¦ Junker, Adriana P¨¢lffy, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures, 5 tables; updated to the published version, one additional results table
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 085025 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2149
abstract: The interaction between super-intense coherent x-ray light and nuclei is studied theoretically. One of the main difficulties with driving nuclear transitions arises from the very narrow nuclear excited state widths which limit the coupling between laser and nuclei. In the context of direct laser-nucleus interaction, we consider the nuclear width broadening that occurs when in solid targets, the excitation caused by a single photon is shared by a large number of nuclei, forming a collective excited state. Our results show that for certain isotopes, cooperative effects may lead to an enhancement of the nuclear excited state population by almost two orders of magnitude. Additionally, an update of previous estimates for nuclear excited state population and signal photons taking into account the experimental advances of the x-ray coherent light sources is given. The presented values are an improvement by orders of magnitude and are encouraging for the future prospects of nuclear quantum optics.

id: 1203.2164
title: Correlations in the Bose & Fermi Hubbard Model
authors: Friedemann Queisser, Konstantin Krutitsky, Patrick Navez, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 65 pages, 39 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2164
abstract: We study the Bose-Hubbard and Fermi-Hubbard model in the limit of large coordination numbers Z (i.e., many tunnelling partners). Via a controlled expansion into powers of 1/Z, we establish a hierarchy of correlations, which facilitates an approximate analytic solution of the quantum evolution. For the Bose-Hubbard model, we derive the growth of phase coherence after a quench from the Mott to the superfluid phase. For a quench within the Mott phase, we find that various local observables approach a quasi-equilibrium state after a finite period of time. However, this state is not thermal, i.e., real thermalisation -- if it occurs -- requires much longer time scales. For a tilted lattice in the Mott state, we calculate the tunnelling probability and find a remarkable analogy to the Sauter-Schwinger effect (i.e., electron-positron pair creation out of the vacuum due to a strong electric field). These analytical results are compared to numerical simulations for finite lattices in one and two dimensions and we find qualitative agreement. Finally, we generalize these studies to the more involved case of the Fermi-Hubbard model.

id: 1203.2217
title: Non-Markovian quantum state diffusion for an open quantum system in fermionic environments
authors: Mi Chen, J. Q. You
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 87, 052108 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2217
abstract: Non-Markovian quantum state diffusion (NMQSD) provides a powerful approach to the dynamics of an open quantum system in bosonic environments. Here we develop an NMQSD method to study the open quantum system in fermionic environments. This problem involves anticommutative noise functions (i.e., Grassmann variables) that are intrinsically different from the noise functions of bosonic baths. We obtain the NMQSD equation for quantum states of the system and the non-Markovian master equation. Moreover, we apply this NMQSD method to single and double quantum-dot systems.

id: 1203.2219
title: Non-Markovian Fermionic Stochastic Schr?dinger Equation for Open System Dynamics
authors: Wufu Shi, Xinyu Zhao, Ting Yu
comments: 10.5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052127 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2219
abstract: In this paper we present an exact Grassmann stochastic Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the dynamics of an open fermionic quantum system coupled to a reservoir consisting of a finite or infinite number of fermions. We use this stochastic approach to derive the exact master equation for a fermionic system strongly coupled to electronic reservoirs. The generality and applicability of this Grassmann stochastic approach is justified and exemplified by several quantum open system problems concerning quantum decoherence and quantum transport for both vacuum and finite-temperature fermionic reservoirs. We show that the quantum coherence property of the quantum dot system can be profoundly modified by the environment memory.

id: 1203.2220
title: Fermionic Stochastic Schr?dinger Equation and Master Equation: An Open System Model
authors: Xinyu Zhao, Wufu Shi, Lian-Ao Wu, Ting Yu
comments: Latex, 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032116 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2220
abstract: This paper considers the extension of the non-Markovian stochastic approach for quantum open systems strongly coupled to a fermionic bath, to the models in which the system operators commute with the fermion bath. This technique can also be a useful tool for studying open quantum systems coupled to a spin-chain environment, which can be further transformed into an effective fermionic bath. We derive an exact stochastic Schr\"{o}dinger equation (SSE), called fermionic quantum state diffusion (QSD) equation, from the first principle by using the fermionic coherent state representation. The reduced density operator for the open system can be recovered from the average of the solutions to the QSD equation over the Grassmann-type noise. By employing the exact fermionic QSD equation, we can derive the corresponding exact master equation. The power of our approach is illustrated by the applications of our stochastic approach to several models of interest including the one-qubit dissipative model, the coupled two-qubit dissipative model, the quantum Brownian motion model and the N-fermion model coupled to a fermionic bath. Different effects caused by the fermionic and bosonic baths on the dynamics of open systems are also discussed.

id: 1203.2222
title: Tensor Network States and Algorithms in the presence of Abelian and non-Abelian Symmetries
authors: Sukhwinder Singh
comments: PhD Thesis, 182 Pages. Chapters 2,3 and 4 incorporate previously published papers by the author. The material contained in chapters 5 and 6 describe the formalism for non-Abelian symmetries and has not been published elsewhere
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2222
abstract: In this thesis we extend the formalism of tensor network algorithms to incorporate global internal symmetries. We describe how to both numerically protect the symmetry and exploit it for computational gain in tensor network simulations. Our formalism is independent of the details of a specific tensor network decomposition since the symmetry constraints are imposed at the level of individual tensors. Moreover, the formalism can be applied to a wide spectrum of physical symmetries described by any discrete or continuous group that is compact and reducible. We describe in detail the implementation of the conservation of total particle number (U(1) symmetry) and of total angular momentum (SU(2) symmetry). Our formalism can also be readily generalized to incorporate more exotic symmetries such as conservation of total charge in anyonic systems.

id: 1203.2251
title: Information gain versus coupling strength in quantum measurements
authors: Xuanmin Zhu, Yuxiang Zhang, Quanhui Liu, Shengjun Wu
comments: 7 pages, 1 figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 042330 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2251
abstract: We investigate the relationship between the information gain and the interaction strength between the quantum system and the measuring device. A strategy is proposed to calculate the information gain of the measuring device as the coupling strength is a variable. For qubit systems, we prove that the information gain increases monotonically with the coupling strength. It is obtained that the information gain of the projective measurement along the x-direction reduces with the increasing of the measurement strength along the z-direction, and a complementarity of information gain in the measurements along those two directions is presented.

id: 1203.2317
title: Evading quantum mechanics
authors: Mankei Tsang, Carlton M. Caves
comments: v2: changed the title, added a figure, and made some minor updates
journal: Physical Review X 2, 031016 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2317
abstract: Quantum mechanics is potentially advantageous for certain information-processing tasks, but its probabilistic nature and requirement of measurement back action often limit the precision of conventional classical information-processing devices, such as sensors and atomic clocks. Here we show that by engineering the dynamics of coupled quantum systems, it is possible to construct a subsystem that evades the measurement back action of quantum mechanics, at all times of interest, and obeys any classical dynamics, linear or nonlinear, that we choose. We call such a system a quantum-mechanics-free subsystem (QMFS). All of the observables of a QMFS are quantum-nondemolition (QND) observables; moreover, they are dynamical QND observables, thus demolishing the widely held belief that QND observables are constants of motion. QMFSs point to a new strategy for designing classical information-processing devices in regimes where quantum noise is detrimental, unifying previous approaches that employ QND observables, back-action evasion, and quantum noise cancellation. Potential applications include gravitational-wave detection, optomechanical force sensing, atomic magnetometry, and classical computing. Demonstrations of dynamical QMFSs include the generation of broad-band squeezed light for use in interferometric gravitational-wave detection, experiments using entangled atomic spin ensembles, and implementations of the quantum Toffoli gate.

id: 1203.2328
title: Multi-pulse addressing of a Raman quantum memory: configurable beam splitting and efficient readout
authors: K. F. Reim, J. Nunn, X.-M. Jin, P. S. Michelberger, T. F. M. Champion, D. G. England, K.C. Lee, N. K. Langford, I. A. Walmsley
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2328
abstract: Quantum memories are vital to the scalability of photonic quantum information processing (PQIP), since the storage of photons enables repeat-until-success strategies. On the other hand the key element of all PQIP architectures is the beam splitter, which allows to coherently couple optical modes. Here we show how to combine these crucial functionalities by addressing a Raman quantum memory with multiple control pulses. The result is a coherent optical storage device with an extremely large time-bandwidth product, that functions as an array of dynamically configurable beam splitters, and that can be read out with arbitrarily high efficiency. Networks of such devices would allow fully scalable PQIP, with applications in quantum computation, long-distance quantum communications and quantum metrology.

id: 1203.2337
title: Time-optimal monotonic convergent algorithms for the control of quantum systems
authors: M. Lapert, J. Salomon, D. Sugny
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 033406 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2337
abstract: We present a new formulation of monotonically convergent algorithms which allows to optimize both the control duration and the field fluence. A standard algorithm designs a control field of fixed duration which both brings the system close to the target state and minimizes its fluence, whereas here we include in addition the optimization of the duration in the cost functional. We apply this new algorithm to the control of spin systems in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. We show how to implement CNOT gates in systems of two and four coupled spins.

id: 1203.2347
title: Quantum discord and non-Markovianity of quantum dynamics
authors: S. Alipour, A. Mani, A. T. Rezakhani
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052108 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2347
abstract: The problem of recognizing (non-)Markovianity of a quantum dynamics is revisited through analyzing quantum correlations. We argue that instantaneously-vanishing quantum discord provides a necessary and sufficient condition for Markovianity of a quantum map. This is used to introduce a measure of non-Markovianity. This measure, however, requires demanding knowledge about the system and the environment. By using a quantum correlation monogamy property and an ancillary system, we propose a simplified measure with less requirements. Non-Markovianity is thereby decided by quantum state tomography of the system and the ancilla.

id: 1203.2380
title: Quantum Control and Representation Theory
authors: A. Ibort, J.M. P¨¦rez-Pardo
comments: Old paper, submitted for archival purposes
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor., 42 205301-12 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2380
abstract: A new notion of controllability for quantum systems that takes advantage of the linear superposition of quantum states is introduced. We call such notion von Neumann controllabilty and it is shown that it is strictly weaker than the usual notion of pure state and operator controlability. We provide a simple and effective characterization of it by using tools from the theory of unitary representations of Lie groups. In this sense we are able to approach the problem of control of quantum states from a new perspective, that of the theory of unitary representations of Lie groups. A few examples of physical interest and the particular instances of compact and nilpotent dynamical Lie groups are discussed.

id: 1203.2410
title: Jaynes-Cummings model: What emerges first beyond the rotating-wave approximation?
authors: Shu He, Qing-Hu Chen, Xue-Zao Ren, Tao Liu, Ke-Lin Wang
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033837 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2410
abstract: The Jaynes-Cummings model without the rotating-wave approximation can be solved exactly by extended Swain's ansatz with the conserved parity. The analytical approximations are then performed at different levels. The well-known rotating-wave approximation is naturally covered in the present zero and first approximations. The effect of the counter rotating-wave term emerges clearly in the second order approximation. The concise analytical expressions are given explicitly and can be applicable up to the ultra-strong coupling regime. The preliminary application to the vacuum Rabi splitting is shown to be very successful.

id: 1203.2418
title: Quantum annealing with antiferromagnetic fluctuations
authors: Yuya Seki, Hidetoshi Nishimori
comments: 19 pages, 11 figures; Added references; To be published in Physical Review E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 051112 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2418
abstract: We introduce antiferromagnetic quantum fluctuations into quantum annealing in addition to the conventional transverse-field term. We apply this method to the infinite-range ferromagnetic p-spin model, for which the conventional quantum annealing has been shown to have difficulties to find the ground state efficiently due to a first-order transition. We study the phase diagram of this system both analytically and numerically. Using the static approximation, we find that there exists a quantum path to reach the final ground state from the trivial initial state that avoids first-order transitions for intermediate values of p. We also study numerically the energy gap between the ground state and the first excited state and find evidence for intermediate values of p that the time complexity scales polynomially with the system size at a second-order transition point along the quantum path that avoids first-order transitions. These results suggest that quantum annealing would be able to solve this problem with intermediate values of p efficiently in contrast to the case with only simple transverse-field fluctuations.

id: 1203.2421
title: Quantum friction
authors: R. Tsekov
comments: The paper is dedicated to the 85th anniversary of N.N. Tyutyulkov
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 29 (2012) 120504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2421
abstract: The Brownian motion of a light quantum particle in a heavy classical gas is theoretically described and a new expression for the friction coefficient is obtained for arbitrary temperature. At zero temperature it equals to the de Broglie momentum of the mean free path divided by the mean free path. Alternatively, the corresponding mobility of the quantum particle in the classical gas is equal to the square of the mean free path divided by the Planck constant. The Brownian motion of a quantum particle in a quantum environment is also discussed.

id: 1203.2438
title: Even and odd nonlinear charge coherent states and their nonclassical properties
authors: X.-M. Liu, B. Li
comments: 33 pages, 3 figures, minor changes. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0306130 and arXiv:quant-ph/0503076
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2438
abstract: The (over)completeness of even and odd nonlinear charge coherent states is proved and their generation explored. They are demonstrated to be generalized entangled nonlinear coherent states. A $D$-algebra realization of the SU$_f$(1,1) generators is given in terms of them. They are shown to exhibit SU$_f$(1,1) squeezing and two-mode $f$-antibunching for some particular types of $f$-nonlinearity, but neither one-mode nor two-mode $f$-squeezing.

id: 1203.2440
title: Simultaneous measurability of error and disturbance
authors: Riuji Mochizuki
comments: A testable example is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2440
abstract: The uncertainty relation, which displays an elementary property of quantum theory, was originally described by Heisenberg as the relation between error and disturbance. Ozawa presented a more rigorous expression of the uncertainty relation, which was later verified experimentally. Nevertheless, the operators corresponding to error and disturbance should be measurable in the identical state if we follow the presupposition of Heisenberg's thought experiment. In this letter, we discuss simultaneous measurability of error and disturbance and present a new inequality using error and disturbance in the identical state. A testable example of this inequality is also suggested.

id: 1203.2458
title: Exact Solution of Dirac Equation with Charged Harmonic Oscillator in Electric Field: Bound States
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Mod. Phys. 3 (2) (2012) 170-179
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2458
abstract: In some quantum chemical applications, the potential models are linear combination of single exactly solvable potentials. This is the case equivalent of the Stark effect for a charged harmonic oscillator (HO) in a uniform electric field of specific strength (HO in an external dipole field). We obtain the exact s-wave solutions of the Dirac equation for some potential models which are linear combination of single exactly solvable potentials (ESPs). In the framework of the spin and pseudospin symmetric concept, we calculate the analytic energy spectrum and the corresponding two-component upper- and lower-spinors of the two Dirac particles by the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method, in a closed form. The nonrelativistic limit of the solution is also studied and compared with the other works.

id: 1203.2475
title: Can quantum mechanics be considered as statistical? an analysis of the PBR theorem
authors: Aurelien Drezet
comments: This is a realist-like discussion of the PBR theorem recently presented by Pusey, Barrett and Rudolph (PBR), "The quantum state cannot be interpreted statistically", arXiv:1111.3328. This new version complete my discussion of PBR theorem bytaking into account some comments by Matt. Leifer. The conclusion and the reasoning are kept unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2475
abstract: The answer to this question is `yes it can!' as we will see in this manuscript. More, precisely after a discussion of M. F. Pusey, J. Barrett and T. Rudolph (PBR) result (arXiv:1111.3328) we will show that contrarily to the PBR claim the epistemic approach is in general not disproved by their `no-go' theorem.

id: 1203.2529
title: Refutation of Richard Gill's Argument Against my Disproof of Bell's Theorem
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 7 pages; This paper will not be included in my forthcoming book on Bell's theorem and quantum entanglement (March, 2012). arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1110.5876
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2529
abstract: I identify a number of errors in Richard Gill's purported refutation (arXiv:1203.1504) of my disproof of Bell's theorem. In particular, I point out that his central argument is based, not only on a rather trivial misreading of my counterexample to Bell's theorem, but also on a simple oversight of a freedom of choice in the orientation of a Clifford algebra. What is innovative and original in my counterexample is thus mistaken for an error, at the expense of the professed universality and generality of Bell's theorem.

id: 1203.2603
title: Span programs and quantum algorithms for st-connectivity and claw detection
authors: Aleksandrs Belovs, Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: European Symp. on Algorithms 2012, LNCS vol. 7501, pp. 193-204
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2603
abstract: We introduce a span program that decides st-connectivity, and generalize the span program to develop quantum algorithms for several graph problems. First, we give an algorithm for st-connectivity that uses O(n d^{1/2}) quantum queries to the n x n adjacency matrix to decide if vertices s and t are connected, under the promise that they either are connected by a path of length at most d, or are disconnected. We also show that if T is a path, a star with two subdivided legs, or a subdivision of a claw, its presence as a subgraph in the input graph G can be detected with O(n) quantum queries to the adjacency matrix. Under the promise that G either contains T as a subgraph or does not contain T as a minor, we give O(n)-query quantum algorithms for detecting T either a triangle or a subdivision of a star. All these algorithms can be implemented time efficiently and, except for the triangle-detection algorithm, in logarithmic space. One of the main techniques is to modify the st-connectivity span program to drop along the way "breadcrumbs," which must be retrieved before the path from s is allowed to enter t.

id: 1203.2652
title: Nonnegative subtheories and quasiprobability representations of qubits
authors: Joel J. Wallman, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures, comments very welcome; v2 published version. Note that the statement and proof of Theorem III.2 in the published version are incorrect (an erratum has been submitted), and this arXiv version (v2) presents the corrected theorem and proof. The conclusions of the paper are unaffected by this correction
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062121 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2652
abstract: Negativity in a quasiprobability representation is typically interpreted as an indication of nonclassical behavior. However, this does not preclude states that are non-negative from exhibiting phenomena typically associated with quantum mechanics - the single qubit stabilizer states have non-negative Wigner functions and yet play a fundamental role in many quantum information tasks. We seek to determine what other sets of quantum states and measurements for a qubit can be non-negative in a quasiprobability representation, and to identify nontrivial unitary groups that permute the states in such a set. These sets of states and measurements are analogous to the single qubit stabilizer states. We show that no quasiprobability representation of a qubit can be non-negative for more than four bases and that the non-negative bases in any quasiprobability representation must satisfy certain symmetry constraints. We provide an exhaustive list of the sets of single qubit bases that are non-negative in some quasiprobability representation and are also permuted by a nontrivial unitary group. This list includes two families of three bases that both include the single qubit stabilizer states as a special case and a family of four bases whose symmetry group is the Pauli group. For higher dimensions, we prove that there can be no more than 2^{d^2} states in non-negative bases of a d-dimensional Hilbert space in any quasiprobability representation. Furthermore, these bases must satisfy certain symmetry constraints, corresponding to requiring the bases to be sufficiently complementary to each other.

id: 1203.2661
title: Non-classicality criteria from phase-space representations and information-theoretical constraints are maximally inequivalent
authors: Alessandro Ferraro, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 5 pages, no figures, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 260403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2661
abstract: We consider two celebrated criteria for defining the non-classicality of bipartite bosonic quantum systems, the first stemming from information theoretic concepts and the second from physical constraints on the quantum phase-space. Consequently, two sets of allegedly classical states are singled out: i) the set C composed of the so called classical-classical (CC) states---separable states that are locally distinguishable and do not possess quantum discord; ii) the set P of states endowed with a positive P-representation (P-classical states)---mixture of Glauber coherent states that, e.g., fail to show negativity of their Wigner function. By showing that C and P are almost disjoint, we prove that the two defining criteria are maximally inequivalent. Thus, the notions of classicality that they put forward are radically different. In particular, generic CC states show quantumness in their P-representation and, viceversa, almost all P-classical states have positive quantum discord, hence are not CC. This inequivalence is further elucidated considering different applications of P-classical and CC states. Our results suggest that there are other quantum correlations in nature than those revealed by entanglement and quantum discord.

id: 1203.2675
title: Quantum Simpsons Paradox and High Order Bell-Tsirelson Inequalities
authors: Yaoyun Shi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2675
abstract: The well-known Simpson's Paradox, or Yule-Simpson Effect, in statistics is often illustrated by the following thought experiment: A drug may be found in a trial to increase the survival rate for both men and women, but decrease the rate for all the subjects as a whole. This paradoxical reversal effect has been found in numerous datasets across many disciplines, and is now included in most introductory statistics textbooks. In the language of the drug trial, the effect is impossible, however, if both treatment groups' survival rates are higher than both control groups'. Here we show that for quantum probabilities, such a reversal remains possible. In particular, a "quantum drug", so to speak, could be life-saving for both men and women yet deadly for the whole population. We further identify a simple inequality on conditional probabilities that must hold classically but is violated by our quantum scenarios, and completely characterize the maximum quantum violation. As polynomial inequalities on entries of the density operator, our inequalities are of degree 6.

id: 1203.2676
title: Robust Stability of Uncertain Quantum Systems
authors: Ian R. Petersen, Valery Ugrinovskii, Matthew R. James
comments: A shortened version will appear in the Proceedings of the 2012 American Control Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2676
abstract: This paper considers the problem of robust stability for a class of uncertain quantum systems subject to unknown perturbations in the system Hamiltonian. Some general stability results are given for different classes of perturbations to the system Hamiltonian. Then, the special case of a nominal linear quantum system is considered with either quadratic or non-quadratic perturbations to the system Hamiltonian. In this case, robust stability conditions are given in terms of strict bounded real conditions.

id: 1203.2716
title: Quantum Communication with an Accelerated Partner
authors: T. G. Downes, T. C. Ralph, N. Walk
comments: Additional explanatory text and typo in Eq.17 corrected
journal: Phys Rev A 87, 012327 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2716
abstract: An unsolved problem in relativistic quantum information research is how to model efficient, directional quantum communication between localised parties in a fully quantum field theoretical framework. We propose a tractable approach to this problem based on solving the Heisenberg evolution of localized field observables. We illustrate our approach by analysing, and obtaining approximate analytical solutions to, the problem of communicating coherent states between an inertial sender, Alice and an accelerated receiver, Rob. We use these results to determine the efficiency with which continuous variable quantum key distribution could be carried out over such a communication channel.

id: 1203.2732
title: The thermal Casimir-Polder interaction of an atom with spherical plasma shell
authors: Nail R. Khusnutdinov
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures. Submitted in J.Phys.A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 265301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2732
abstract: The van der Waals and Casimir-Polder interaction energy of an atom with an infinitely thin sphere with finite conductivity is investigated in the framework of the hydrodynamic approach at finite temperature. This configuration models the real interaction of an atom with fullerene. The Lifshitz approach is used to find the free energy. We find the explicit expression for the free energy and perform the analysis of it for i) high and low temperatures, ii) large radii of sphere and ii) short separation between an atom and sphere. At low temperatures the thermal part of the free energy approaches zero as forth power of the temperature while for high temperatures it is proportional to the first degree of the temperature. The entropy of this system is positive for small radii of sphere and it becomes negative at low temperatures and for large radii of the sphere.

id: 1203.2736
title: The Principle of Least Action as Interpreted by Nature and by the Observer
authors: Michel Gondran, Alexandre Gondran
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2736
abstract: In this paper, we show that the difficulties of interpretation of the principle of least action concerning "final causes" or "efficient causes" are due to the existence of two different actions, the "Euler-Lagrange action" (or classical action) and the "Hamilton-Jacobi action". These two actions are solutions to the same Hamilton-Jacobi equation, but with very different initial conditions: smooth conditions for the Hamilton-Jacobi action, singular conditions for the Euler-Lagrange action. We propose a clear-cut interpretation of the principle of least action: the Hamilton-Jacobi action does not use the "final causes" and seems to be the action used by Nature: it is the ontological action; the Euler-Lagrange action uses the "final causes" and is the action used by an observer to retrospectively determine the trajectory of the particle: it is the epistemological action.

id: 1203.2799
title: Revisiting the displacement operator for quantum systems with position-dependent mass
authors: S. Habib Mazharimousavi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Final version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 034102 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2799
abstract: Recently R. N. Costa Filho et al. (PRA 84, 050102(R) (2011)) have introduced a position dependent infinitesimal translation operator which corresponds to a position dependent linear momentum and consequently to a position dependent effective mass quantum particle. Although there is no doubt in novelty of the idea and the formalism, we believe that some aspects of the quantum mechanics could be complemented in their original work. Here in this letter first we address those points and then an alternative will be introduced. Finally we apply the formalism for a quantum particle under a null potential confined in a square well and the results will be compared with those in the paper mentioned above.

id: 1203.2956
title: Optical interferometry in the presence of large phase diffusion
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Stefano Olivares, Davide Brivio, Simone Cialdi, Daniele Cipriani, Alberto Santamato, Stefano Vezzoli, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 043817 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2956
abstract: Phase diffusion represents a crucial obstacle towards the implementation of high precision interferometric measurements and phase shift based communication channels. Here we present a nearly optimal interferometric scheme based on homodyne detection and coherent signals for the detection of a phase shift in the presence of large phase diffusion. In our scheme the ultimate bound to interferometric sensitivity is achieved already for a small number of measurements, of the order of hundreds, without using nonclassical light.

id: 1203.2974
title: Towards higher precision and operational use of optical homodyne tomograms
authors: M. Bellini, A. S. Coelho, S. N. Filippov, V. I. Man'ko, A. Zavatta
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, some results are extended
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052129 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2974
abstract: We present the results of an operational use of experimentally measured optical tomograms to determine state characteristics (purity) avoiding any reconstruction of quasiprobabilities. We also develop a natural way how to estimate the errors (including both statistical and systematic ones) by an analysis of the experimental data themselves. Precision of the experiment can be increased by postselecting the data with minimal (systematic) errors. We demonstrate those techniques by considering coherent and photon-added coherent states measured via the time-domain improved homodyne detection. The operational use and precision of the data allowed us to check for the first time purity-dependent uncertainty relations and uncertainty relations for Shannon and R\'{e}nyi entropies.

id: 1203.2976
title: Robust Self Testing of the Singlet
authors: Matthew McKague, Tzyh Haur Yang, Valerio Scarani
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 455304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2976
abstract: In this paper, we introduce a general framework to study the concept of robust self testing which can be used to self test EPR pairs and local measurement operators. The result is based only on probabilities obtained from experiment, with tolerance to experimental errors. In particular, we show that if results of experiment come approach the Cirel'son bound, or approximates the Mayers-Yao type correlation, then the experiment must contain an approximate EPR pair. More specifically, there exist local bases in which the physical state is close to an EPR pair, possibly all encoded in a larger environment or ancilla. Moreover, in theses bases the measurements are close to the qubit operators used to achieve the Cirel'son bound or the Mayers-Yao results.

id: 1203.3007
title: Entities, Identity and the Formal Structure of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Christian de Ronde, Graciela Domenech, Federico Holik, Hector Freytes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3007
abstract: The concept of individuality in quantum mechanics shows radical differences from the one used in classical physics. In particular, it is not possible to consider the fundamental particles described by quantum theory as individual distinguishable objects. In this paper we present arguments in favor of quantum non-individuality, which -in addition to those based on quantum statistics- relate to the Kochen-Specker theorem and the principle of superposition. Then, we analyze the possibility of referring to 'possible individuals' instead of 'actual individuals', and show that the Modal-Kochen-Specker theorem precludes this interpretational move.

id: 1203.3015
title: Difference Kinetic Equations in Many-Particle Physics
authors: Alexandr A. Klyukanov
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3015
abstract: Difference Kinetic Equations are derived quantum mechanically in a plane wavelets representation with account of two-particle correlations. It is shown that the set of plane wavelet orthonormal functions is complete. The set of ket vectors is used as the second quantization basis allowing introducing the positively definite distribution function. It is obtained that inhomogeneous system is described by numbers of particles at quantized positions with quantized momenta. Difference Kinetic Equation for distribution function transforms into the classical Boltzmann Equation in the limit, where expectation value of particles number varies little.

id: 1203.3054
title: Application of the no-signaling principle to obtain quantum cloners for any allowed value of fidelity
authors: Z. Gedik, B. ?akmak
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042314 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3054
abstract: Special relativity forbids superluminal influences. Using only the no-signaling principle and an assumption about the form of the Schmidt decomposition, we show that for "any" allowed fidelity there is a "unique" approximate qubit cloner which can be written explicitly. We introduce the prime cloners whose fidelities have multiplicative property and show that the fidelity of the prime cloners for the infinite copy limit is 1/2.

id: 1203.3091
title: A general hidden variable model for the two-qubits system
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Raffaele Romano
comments: 4 pages, submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042102 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3091
abstract: We generalize Bell's hidden variable model describing the singlet state of a two-qubits system by extending it to arbitrary states and observables. As in the original work, we assume a uniform, state-independent probability distribution for the hidden variables which are identified with the unit vectors of a 3-dimensional real space. By slightly modifying our model, we provide also a minimal hidden variable description of the two-qubits system, relying on a single hidden variable. We discuss the main features and the implications of the model.

id: 1203.3093
title: Quantum and Superquantum Nonlocal Correlations
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Raffaele Romano
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022116 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3093
abstract: We present a simple hidden variable model for the singlet state of a pair of qubits, characterized by two kinds, hierarchically ordered, of hidden variables. We prove that, averaging over both types of variables, one reproduces all the quantum mechanical correlations of the singlet state. On the other hand, averaging only over the hidden variables of the lower level, one obtains a general formal theoretical scheme exhibiting correlations stronger than the quantum ones, but with faster-than-light communication forbidden. This result is interesting by itself since it shows that a violation of the quantum bound for nonlocal correlations can be implemented in a precise physical manner and not only mathematically, and it suggests that resorting to two levels of nonlocal hidden variables might led to a deeper understanding of the physical principles at the basis of quantum nonlocality.

id: 1203.3096
title: On Aharonov-Casher bound states
authors: E. O. Silva, F. M. Andrade, H. Belich, C. Filgueiras
comments: 11 pages, matches published version
journal: European Physical Journal C 73, 2402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3096
abstract: In this work bound states for the Aharonov-Casher problem are considered. According to Hagen's work on the exact equivalence between spin-1/2 Aharonov-Bohm and Aharonov-Casher effects, is known that the $\boldsymbol{\nabla}\cdot\mathbf{E}$ term cannot be neglected in the Hamiltonian if the spin of particle is considered. This term leads to the existence of a singular potential at the origin. By modeling the problem by boundary conditions at the origin which arises by the self-adjoint extension of the Hamiltonian, we derive for the first time an expression for the bound state energy of the Aharonov-Casher problem. As an application, we consider the Aharonov-Casher plus a two-dimensional harmonic oscillator. We derive the expression for the harmonic oscillator energies and compare it with the expression obtained in the case without singularity. At the end, an approach for determination of the self-adjoint extension parameter is given. In our approach, the parameter is obtained essentially in terms of physics of the problem.

id: 1203.3147
title: Quantum state of a free spin-1/2 particle and the inextricable dependence of spin and momentum under Lorentz transformations
authors: Tiago Debarba, Reinaldo O. Vianna
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, published as a Review in the IJQI
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol.11 No.4 1230003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3147
abstract: We revise the Dirac equation for a free particle and investigate Lorentz transformations on spinors. We study how the spin quantization axis changes under Lorentz transformations, and evince the interplay between spin and momentum in this context.

id: 1203.3153
title: Collapse of the quantum correlation hierarchy links entropic uncertainty to entanglement creation
authors: Patrick J. Coles
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures. Added Figure 1 and various remarks to improve clarity of presentation
journal: Physical Review A 86, 062334 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3153
abstract: Quantum correlations have fundamental and technological interest, and hence many measures have been introduced to quantify them. Some hierarchical orderings of these measures have been established, e.g., discord is bigger than entanglement, and we present a class of bipartite states, called premeasurement states, for which several of these hierarchies collapse to a single value. Because premeasurement states are the kind of states produced when a system interacts with a measurement device, the hierarchy collapse implies that the uncertainty of an observable is quantitatively connected to the quantum correlations (entanglement, discord, etc.) produced when that observable is measured. This fascinating connection between uncertainty and quantum correlations leads to a reinterpretation of entropic formulations of the uncertainty principle, so-called entropic uncertainty relations, including ones that allow for quantum memory. These relations can be thought of as lower-bounds on the entanglement created when incompatible observables are measured. Hence, we find that entanglement creation exhibits complementarity, a concept that should encourage exploration into "entanglement complementarity relations".

id: 1203.3229
title: Transient features of quantum open maps
authors: Leonardo Ermann, Gabriel G. Carlo, Juan M. Pedrosa, Marcos Saraceno
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 066204 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3229
abstract: We study families of open chaotic maps that classically share the same asymptotic properties -- forward and backwards trapped sets, repeller dimensions, escape rate -- but differ in their short time behavior. When these maps are quantized we find that the fine details of the distribution of resonances and the corresponding eigenfunctions are sensitive to the initial shape and size of the openings. We study phase space localization of the resonances with respect to the repeller and find strong delocalization effects when the area of the openings is smaller than $\hbar$.

id: 1203.3286
title: Symmetry breaking and fluctuations within stochastic mean-field dynamics: importance of initial quantum fluctuations
authors: Denis Lacroix, Sakir Ayik, Bulent Yilmaz
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3286
abstract: Dynamics of spontaneous symmetry breaking and fluctuations in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model are investigated in a stochastic mean-field approach. Different from the standard mean-field, in the stochastic approach, initial state fluctuations, are incorporated. In weak coupling, the approach perfectly reproduces the exact quantal dynamics. On the other hand, for increasing coupling strength, above the symmetry breaking threshold, the approach provides description of gross properties (i.e. time averaged behavior) of the exact quantal evolution.

id: 1203.3305
title: Further analysis of some symmetric and antisymmetric composite pulses for tackling pulse strength errors
authors: Sami Husain, Minaru Kawamura, Jonathan A. Jones
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures; major update and extension of previous version. Now at J. Magn. Reson. (in press)
journal: J. Magn. Reson. 230,145-154 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3305
abstract: Composite pulses have found widespread use in both conventional Nuclear Magnetic Resonance experiments and in experimental quantum information processing to reduce the effects of systematic errors. Here we describe several families of time symmetric and antisymmetric fully compensating composite pulses, inspired by the previous Fn, Gn and BB1 families family developed by Wimperis. We describe families of composite 180 degree pulses (NOT gates) which exhibit unprecedented tolerance of pulse strength errors without unreasonable sensitivity to off-resonance errors, and related families with more exotic tailored responses. Next we address the problem of extending these methods to other rotation angles, and discuss numerical results for 90 degree pulses. Finally we demonstrate the performance of some 90 degree and 180 degree pulses in NMR experiments.

id: 1203.3331
title: Quantum-memory-assisted entropic uncertainty principle under noise
authors: Z. Y. Xu, W. L. Yang, M. Feng
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures including Supplemental Material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012113 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3331
abstract: The measurement outcomes of two incompatible observables on a particle can be precisely predicted when it is maximally entangled with a quantum memory, as quantified recently [Nature Phys. 6, 659 (2010)]. We explore the behavior of the uncertainty relation under the influence of local unital and nonunital noisy channels. While the unital noises only increase the amount of uncertainty, the amplitude-damping nonunital noises may amazingly reduce the amount of uncertainty in the long-time limit. This counterintuitive phenomenon could be justified by different competitive mechanisms between quantum correlations and the minimal missing information after local measurement.

id: 1203.3352
title: Solutions of the Gross-Pitaevskii and time-fractional Gross-Pitaevskii equations for different potentials with Homotopy Perturbation Method
authors: N. Uzar, D. Han, T.T ufekci, E. Aydiner
comments: 29 page 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3352
abstract: In this study, after we have briefly introduced the standard Gross-Pitaevskii equation, we have suggested fractional Gross-Pitaevskii equations to investigate the time-dependent ground state dynamics of the Bose-Einstein condensation of weakly interacting bosonic particle system which can includes non-Markovian processes or non-Gaussian distributions and long-range interactions. Only we focused the time-fractional Gross-Pitaevskii equation and have obtained solutions of the standard Gross-Pitaevskii and time-fractional Gross-Pitaevskii equations for attractive and repulsive interactions in the case external trap potentials $V(x)=0$ and optical lattice potential $V(x) =\pm\sin^{2}x$ by using Homotopy Perturbation Method. We have found that the Homotopy Perturbation Method solutions of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation for these potentials and interactions are the same analytical results of it. Furthermore we have also found that solutions of the time-fractional Gross-Pitaevskii equation for these potentials and interactions can be given in terms of Mittag-Leffler function. The solutions of the time-fractional Gross-Pitaevskii equation provide that the time evolution of the ground state dynamics of Bose-Einstein condensation of bosonic particles deviates exponential form, and evolutes with time as stretched exponentially.

id: 1203.3356
title: Conditions for the freezing phenomena of geometric measure of quantum discord for arbitrary two-qubit X states under non-dissipative dephasing noises
authors: Wei Song, Long-Bao Yu, Da-Chuang Li, Ping Dong, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3356
abstract: We study the dynamics of geometric measure of quantum discord (GMQD) under the influences of two local phase damping noises. Consider the two qubits initially in arbitrary X states, we find the necessary and sufficient conditions for which GMQD are unaffected for a finite period. It is further shown that such results also hold for the non-Markovian dephasing process.

id: 1203.3391
title: Adaptive experimental design for one-qubit state estimation with finite data based on a statistical update criterion
authors: Takanori Sugiyama, Peter S. Turner, Mio Murao
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052107 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Machine Learning (stat.ML)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3391
abstract: We consider 1-qubit mixed quantum state estimation by adaptively updating measurements according to previously obtained outcomes and measurement settings. Updates are determined by the average-variance-optimality (A-optimality) criterion, known in the classical theory of experimental design and applied here to quantum state estimation. In general, A-optimization is a nonlinear minimization problem; however, we find an analytic solution for 1-qubit state estimation using projective measurements, reducing computational effort. We compare numerically two adaptive and two nonadaptive schemes for finite data sets and show that the A-optimality criterion gives more precise estimates than standard quantum tomography.

id: 1203.3396
title: Heralded photon amplification for quantum communication
authors: C. I. Osorio, N. Bruno, N. Sangouard, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin, R. T. Thew
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023815 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3396
abstract: Heralded noiseless amplification based on single-photon sources and linear optics is ideally suited for long-distance quantum communication tasks based on discrete variables. We experimentally demonstrate such an amplifier, operating at telecommunication wavelengths. Coherent amplification is performed with a gain of G=1.98+/-0.2, for a state with a maximum expected gain G=2. We also demonstrate that there is no need for a stable phase reference between the initial signal state and the local auxiliary photons used by the amplifier. These results highlight the potential of heralded quantum amplifiers for long-distance quantum communication, and bring device-independent quantum key distribution one step closer.

id: 1203.3437
title: A two-dimensional pseudospectral Hartree-Fock method for low-Z atoms in intense magnetic fields
authors: Anand Thirumalai, Jeremy S. Heyl
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures, 7 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052522 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3437
abstract: The energy levels of the first few low-lying states of helium and lithium atoms in intense magnetic fields up to $\approx 10^8-10^9$~T are calculated in this study. A pseudospectral method is employed for the computational procedure. The methodology involves computing the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the generalized two-dimensional Hartree-Fock partial differential equations for these two- and three-electron systems in a self-consistent manner. The method exploits the natural symmetries of the problem without assumptions of any basis functions for expressing the wave functions of the electrons or the commonly employed adiabatic approximation. It is seen that the results obtained here for a few of the most tightly bound states of each of the atoms, helium and lithium, are in good agreement with findings elsewhere. In this regard, we report new data for two new states of lithium that have not been studied thus far in the literature. It is also seen that the pseudospectral method employed here is considerably more economical, from a computational point of view, than previously employed methods such as a finite-element based approach. The key enabling advantage of the method described here is the short computational times which are on the order of seconds for obtaining accurate results for heliumlike systems.

id: 1203.3661
title: Detection of the ultranarrow temporal correlation of twin beams via sum-frequency generation
authors: O. Jedrkiewicz, J.-L. Blanchet, E. Brambilla, P. Di Trapani, A. Gatti
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 253904 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3661
abstract: We demonstrate the ultranarrow temporal correlation (6 fs full width half maximum) of twin beams generated by parametric down-conversion, by using the inverse process of sum-frequency generation. The result relies on an achromatic imaging of a huge bandwith of twin beams and on a careful control of their spatial degrees of freedom. The detrimental effects of spatial filtering and of imperfect imaging are shown toghether with the theoretical model used to describe the results.

id: 1203.3675
title: The geometric measure of entanglement of pure states with nonnegative amplitudes and the spectral theory of nonnegative tensors
authors: Shenglong Hu, Liqun Qi, Guofeng Zhang
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3675
abstract: The geometric measure of entanglement for a symmetric pure state with nonnegative amplitudes has attracted much attention. On the other hand, the spectral theory of nonnegative tensors (hypermatrices) has been developed rapidly. In this paper, we show how the spectral theory of nonnegative tensors can be applied to the study of the geometric measure of entanglement for a pure state with nonnegative amplitudes. Especially, an elimination method for computing the geometric measure of entanglement for symmetric pure multipartite qubit or qutrit states with nonnegative amplitudes is given. For symmetric pure multipartite qudit states with nonnegative amplitudes, a numerical algorithm with randomization is presented and proven to be convergent. We show that for the geometric measure of entanglement for pure states with nonnegative amplitudes, the nonsymmetric ones can be converted to the symmetric ones.

id: 1203.3678
title: Do We Understand Quantum Mechanics - Finally?
authors: Juerg Froehlich, Baptiste Schubnel
comments: 42 pages, contribution to the Proceedings of a conference in memory of Erwin Schroedinger, Vienna, January 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3678
abstract: After some historical remarks concerning Schroedinger's discovery of wave mechanics, we present a unified formalism for the mathematical description of classical and quantum-mechanical systems, utilizing elements of the theory of operator algebras. We then review some basic aspects of quantum mechanics and, in particular, of its interpretation. We attempt to clarify what Quantum Mechanics tells us about Nature when appropriate experiments are made. We discuss the importance of the mechanisms of "dephasing" and "decoherence" in associating "facts" with possible events and rendering complementary possible events mutually exclusive.

id: 1203.3693
title: Three strongly correlated charged bosons in a one-dimensional harmonic trap: natural orbital occupancies
authors: Przemyslaw Koscik
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, To appear in European Physical Journal B
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B (2012) 85: 173
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3693
abstract: We study a one-dimensional system composed of three charged bosons confined in an external harmonic potential. More precisely, we investigate the ground-state correlation properties of the system, paying particular attention to the strong-interaction limit. We explain for the first time the nature of the degeneracies appearing in this limit in the spectrum of the reduced density matrix. An explicit representation of the asymptotic natural orbitals and their occupancies is given in terms of some integral equations.

id: 1203.3711
title: Four-qubit entangled symmetric states with positive partial transpositions
authors: J. Tura, R. Augusiak, P. Hyllus, M. Ku?, J. Samsonowicz, M. Lewenstein
comments: 5+4 pages, improved version, title slightly modified
journal: Physical Review A 85, 060302(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3711
abstract: We solve the open question of the existence of four-qubit entangled symmetric states with positive partial transpositions (PPT states). We reach this goal with two different approaches. First, we propose a half-analytical-half-numerical method that allows to construct multipartite PPT entangled symmetric states (PPTESS) from the qubit-qudit PPT entangled states. Second, we adapt the algorithm allowing to search for extremal elements in the convex set of bipartite PPT states [J. M. Leinaas, J. Myrheim, and E. Ovrum, Phys. Rev. A 76, 034304 (2007)] to the multipartite scenario. With its aid we search for extremal four-qubit PPTESS and show that generically they have ranks (5,7,8). Finally, we provide an exhaustive characterization of these states with respect to their separability properties.

id: 1203.3723
title: Dynamical role of system-environment correlations in non-Markovian dynamics
authors: Laura Mazzola, Cesar A. Rodr?guez-Rosario, Kavan Modi, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 010102(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3723
abstract: We analyse the role played by system-environment correlations in the emergence of non-Markovian dynamics. By working within the framework developed in Breuer et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 210401 (2009), we unveil a fundamental connection between non-Markovian behaviour and dynamics of system-environment correlations. We derive an upper bound to the rate of change of the distinguishability between different states of the system that explicitly depends on the development and establishment of correlations between system and environment. We illustrate our results using a fully solvable spin-chain model, which allows us to gain insight on the mechanisms triggering non-Markovian evolution.

id: 1203.3726
title: Quantum mechanics: last stop for reductionism
authors: Gabriele Carcassi
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3726
abstract: The state space of a homogeneous body is derived under two different assumptions: infinitesimal reducibility and irreducibility. The first assumption leads to a real vector space, used in classical mechanics, while the second one leads to a complex vector space, used in quantum mechanics.

id: 1203.3733
title: Randomized Benchmarking of Multi-Qubit Gates
authors: J. P. Gaebler, A. M. Meier, T. R. Tan, R. Bowler, Y. Lin, D. Hanneke, J. D. Jost, J. P. Home, E. Knill, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: Corrected description of parallel single-qubit benchmark experiment. Results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 260503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3733
abstract: As experimental platforms for quantum information processing continue to mature, characterization of the quality of unitary gates that can be applied to their quantum bits (qubits) becomes essential. Eventually, the quality must be sufficiently high to support arbitrarily long quantum computations. Randomized benchmarking already provides a platform-independent method for assessing the quality of one-qubit rotations. Here we describe an extension of this method to multi-qubit gates. We provide a platform-independent protocol for evaluating the performance of experimental Clifford unitaries, which form the basis of fault-tolerant quantum computing. We implemented the benchmarking protocol with trapped-ion two-qubit phase gates and one-qubit gates and found an error per random two-qubit Clifford unitary of $0.162 \pm 0.008$, thus setting the first benchmark for such unitaries. By implementing a second set of sequences with an extra two-qubit phase gate at each step, we extracted an error per phase gate of $0.069 \pm 0.017$. We conducted these experiments with movable, sympathetically cooled ions in a multi-zone Paul trap - a system that can in principle be scaled to larger numbers of ions.

id: 1203.3753
title: Adiabatic Passage and Spin Locking in Tm$^{3+}$:YAG
authors: Mar¨ªa Florencia Pascual-Winter, Robert-Christopher Tongning, Romain Lauro, Anne Louchet-Chauvet, Thierry Chaneli¨¨re, Jean-Louis Le Gou?t
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review B 86, 064301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3753
abstract: In low concentration Tm$^{3+}$:YAG, we observe efficient adiabatic rapid passage (ARP) of thulium nuclear spin over flipping times much longer than $T_2$. Efficient ARP with long flipping time has been observed in monoatomic solids for decades and has been analyzed in terms of spin temperature and of the thermodynamic equilibrium of a coupled spin ensemble. In low-concentration impurity-doped crystals the spin temperature concept may be questioned. A single spin model should be preferred since the impurity ions are weakly coupled together but interact with the numerous off-resonant matrix ions that originate the spin-spin relaxation. The experiment takes place in the context of quantum information investigation, involving impurity-doped crystals, spin hyperpolarization by optical pumping, and optical detection of the spin evolution.

id: 1203.3776
title: Dynamical Casimir Effect in two-atom cavity QED
authors: A. V. Dodonov, V. V. Dodonov
comments: 4+ pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 055805 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3776
abstract: We study analytically and numerically the dynamical Casimir effect in a cavity containing two stationary 2-level atoms that interact with the resonance field mode via the Tavis-Cummings Hamiltonian. We determine the modulation frequencies for which the field and atomic excitations are generated and study the corresponding dynamical behaviors in the absence of damping. It is shown that the two-atom setup allows for monitoring of photon generation without interrupting the growth, and different entangled states can be generated during the process.

id: 1203.3777
title: A paradox in bosonic energy computations via semidefinite programming relaxations
authors: M. Navascues, A. Garcia-Saez, A. Acin, S. Pironio, M. B. Plenio
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 023026 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3777
abstract: We show that the recent hierarchy of semidefinite programming relaxations based on non-commutative polynomial optimization and reduced density matrix variational methods exhibits an interesting paradox when applied to the bosonic case: even though it can be rigorously proven that the hierarchy collapses after the first step, numerical implementations of higher order steps generate a sequence of improving lower bounds that converges to the optimal solution. We analyze this effect and compare it with similar behavior observed in implementations of semidefinite programming relaxations for commutative polynomial minimization. We conclude that the method converges due to the rounding errors occurring during the execution of the numerical program, and show that convergence is lost as soon as computer precision is incremented. We support this conclusion by proving that for any element p of a Weyl algebra which is non-negative in the Schrodinger representation there exists another element p' arbitrarily close to p that admits a sum of squares decomposition.

id: 1203.3797
title: Macroscopic singlet states for gradient magnetometry
authors: Inigo Urizar-Lanz, Philipp Hyllus, Inigo L. Egusquiza, Morgan W. Mitchell, Geza Toth
comments: 15 pages including 5 figures + 7 pages supplement, revtex4; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013626 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3797
abstract: We present a method for measuring magnetic field gradients with macroscopic singlet states realized with ensembles of spin-j particles. While the singlet state is completely insensitive to homogeneous magnetic fields, the variance of its collective spin components is highly sensitive to field gradients. We compute the dynamics of this variance analytically for a chain of spins and also for an ensemble of particles with a given density distribution. We find an upper bound on how precisely the field gradient can be estimated from the measured data. Based on our calculations, differential magnetometry can be carried out with cold atomic ensembles using a multipartite singlet state obtained via spin squeezing. On the other hand, comparing the metrological properties of the experimentally prepared state to that of the ideal singlet can be used as further evidence that a singlet state has indeed been created.

id: 1203.3819
title: Dynamics of Gaussian discord between two oscillators interacting with a common environment
authors: Jos¨¦ Nahuel Freitas, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032118 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3819
abstract: We analyze the evolution of the Gaussian discord between two resonant harmonic oscillators coupled to a common environment. For this, we use the same tools we applied before to fully characterize the evolution of the entanglement in this system [ Phys. Rev. Lett. 100 220401 (2008)]. The asymptotic value of Gaussian discord is obtained as a function of parameters characterizing the environment (temperature, couplings, etc.) and the initial state of the system (initial squeezing, initial purity, etc.) The type of Gaussian measurement optimizing the extraction of information between the oscillators is fully characterized by means of a phase diagram. Such a diagram (with phases corresponding to homodyne or heterodyne measurements) has similar topology to the one describing dynamical phases for the entanglement. We present evidence pointing to the fact that Gaussian discord is not always a good approximation of true discord as the asymptotic value of the former is shown to be a nondecreasing function of temperature (in the high-temperature regime), reaching an asymptotic value of log(2) for a pure initial state (and lower values for mixed initial states).

id: 1203.3831
title: On the optimal feedback control of linear quantum systems in the presence of thermal noise
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Stefano Mancini, Alessio Serafini
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. v2: minor changes to the letter; better explanation of the necessary and sufficient conditions to achieve the bounds (in the supplemental material); v3: title changed; comparison between optimal general-dyne strategy and homodyne strategy is discussed; supplemental material included in the manuscript and few references added. v4: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042333 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3831
abstract: We study the possibility of taking bosonic systems subject to quadratic Hamiltonians and a noisy thermal environment to non-classical stationary states by feedback loops based on weak measurements and conditioned linear driving. We derive general analytical upper bounds for the single mode squeezing and multimode entanglement at steady state, depending only on the Hamiltonian parameters and on the number of thermal excitations of the bath. Our findings show that, rather surprisingly, larger number of thermal excitations in the bath allow for larger steady-state squeezing and entanglement if the efficiency of the optimal continuous measurements conditioning the feedback loop is high enough. We also consider the performance of feedback strategies based on homodyne detection and show that, at variance with the optimal measurements, it degrades with increasing temperature.

id: 1203.3906
title: The k-local Pauli Commuting Hamiltonians Problem is in P
authors: Jijiang Yan, Dave Bacon
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3906
abstract: Given a Hamiltonian that is a sum of commuting few-body terms, the commuting Hamiltonian problem is to determine if there exists a quantum state that is the simultaneous eigenstate of all of these terms that minimizes each term individually. This problem is known to be in the complexity class quantum Merlin-Arthur, but is widely thought to not be complete for this class. Here we show that a limited form of this problem when the individual terms are all made up of tensor products of Pauli matrices is efficiently solvable on a classical computer and thus in the complexity class P. The problem can be thought of as the classical XOR-SAT problem over a symplectic vector space. This class of problems includes instance Hamiltonians whose ground states possess topological entanglement, thus showing that such entanglement is not always a barrier for the more general problem.

id: 1203.3933
title: Concurrence for infinite-dimensional quantum systems
authors: Yu Guo, Jinchuan Hou, Yuncai Wang
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3933
abstract: Concurrence is an important entanglement measure for states in finite-dimensional quantum systems that was explored intensively in the last decade. In this paper, we extend the concept of concurrence to infinite-dimensional bipartite systems and show that it is continuous and does not increase under local operation and classical communication (LOCC). Moreover, based on the partial Hermitian conjugate (PHC) criterion proposed in [Chin. Phys. Lett. \textbf{26}, 060305(2009); Chin. Sci. Bull. \textbf{56}(9), 840--846(2011)], we introduce a concept of the PHC measure and show that it coincides with the concurrence, which provides another perspective on the concurrence.

id: 1203.3937
title: Nonlinear n-Pseudo Fermions
authors: D. A. Trifonov
comments: 10 pages, no figures; minor corrections, accepted in J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3937
abstract: Nonlinear pseudo-fermions of degree n (n-pseudo-fermions) are introduced as (pseudo) particles with creation and annihilation operators $a$ and $b$, $b \neq a^\dagger$, obeying the simple nonlinear anticommutation relation $ab + b^n a^n = 1$. The (n+1)-order nilpotency of these operators follows from the existence of unique (up to a bi-normalization factor) $a$-vacuum. Supposing appropriate (n+1)-order nilpotent para-Grassmann variables and integration rules the sets of n-pseudo-fermion number states, and 'right' and 'left' ladder operator bi-overcomplete sets of coherent states are constructed. Explicit examples of n-pseudo-fermion ladder operators are provided, and the relation of pseudo-fermions to finite-level pseudo-Hermitian systems is briefly considered.

id: 1203.3948
title: No spin-localization phase transition in the spin-boson model without local field
authors: Tao Liu, Mang Feng, Lei Li, Wanli Yang, Kelin Wang
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3948
abstract: We explore the spin-boson model in a special case, i.e., with zero local field. In contrast to previous studies, we find no possibility for quantum phase transition (QPT) happening between the localized and delocalized phases, and the behavior of the model can be fully characterized by the even or odd parity as well as the parity breaking, instead of the QPT, owned by the ground state of the system. Our analytical treatment about the eigensolution of the ground state of the model presents for the first time a rigorous proof of no-degeneracy for the ground state of the model, which is independent of the bath type, the degrees of freedom of the bath and the calculation precision. We argue that the QPT mentioned previously appears due to unreasonable treatment of the ground state of the model or of the infrared divergence existing in the spectral functions for Ohmic and sub-Ohmic dissipations.

id: 1203.3950
title: Search on a Fractal Lattice using a Quantum Random Walk
authors: Apoorva Patel, K. S. Raghunathan
comments: Revtex4, 9 pages, 11 figures (v2) Added: Relation of flip-flop walk to Klein-Gordon equation, Effect of non-translational invariance of fractals on spatial search
journal: Physical Review A 86 (2012) 012332
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3950
abstract: The spatial search problem on regular lattice structures in integer number of dimensions $d\geq2$ has been studied extensively, using both coined and coinless quantum walks. The relativistic Dirac operator has been a crucial ingredient in these studies. Here we investigate the spatial search problem on fractals of non-integer dimensions. Although the Dirac operator cannot be defined on a fractal, we construct the quantum walk on a fractal using the flip-flop operator that incorporates a Klein-Gordon mode. We find that the scaling behavior of the spatial search is determined by the spectral (and not the fractal) dimension. Our numerical results have been obtained on the well-known Sierpinski gaskets in two and three dimensions.

id: 1203.3960
title: Quantum Discord for Investigating Quantum Correlations without Entanglement in Solids
authors: Xing Rong, Zixiang Wang, Fangzhou Jin, Jianpei Geng, Pengbo Feng, Nanyang Xu, Ya Wang, Chenyong Ju, Mingjun Shi, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3960
abstract: Quantum systems unfold diversified correlations which have no classical counterparts. These quantum correlations have various different facets. Quantum entanglement, as the most well known measure of quantum correlations, plays essential roles in quantum information processing. However, it has recently been pointed out that quantum entanglement cannot describe all the nonclassicality in the correlations. Thus the study of quantum correlations in separable states attracts widely attentions. Herein, we experimentally investigate the quantum correlations of separable thermal states in terms of quantum discord. The sudden change of quantum discord is observed, which captures ambiguously the critical point associated with the behavior of Hamiltonian. Our results display the potential applications of quantum correlations in studying the fundamental properties of quantum system, such as quantum criticality of non-zero temperature.

id: 1203.4046
title: Asynchronous QKD on a Relay Network
authors: S. M. Barnett, S. J. D. Phoenix
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4046
abstract: We show how QKD on a multi-user, multi-path, network can be used to establish a key between any two end users in an asynchronous fashion using the technique of bit-transport. By a suitable adaptation of our previous secret-sharing scheme we show that an attacker has to compromise all of the intermediate relays on the network in order to obtain the key. Thus, two end users can establish a secret key provided they trust at least one of the network relays.

id: 1203.4056
title: Local controllability of quantum systems
authors: Zbigniew Pucha?a
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Quantum Inf. Process., Vol. 12, No. 1 (2013), pp 459-466
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4056
abstract: We give a criterion that is sufficient for controllability of multipartite quantum systems. We generalize the graph infection criterion to the quantum systems that cannot be described with the use of a graph theory. We introduce the notation of hypergraphs and reformulate the infection property in this setting. The introduced criterion has a topological nature and therefore it is not connected to any particular experimental realization of quantum information processing.

id: 1203.4079
title: Spin-orbit couplings between distant electrons trapped individually on liquid helium
authors: Miao Zhang, L. F. Wei
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review B 86, 205408 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4079
abstract: We propose an approach to entangle spins of electrons floating on liquid helium by coherently manipulating their spin-orbit interactions. The configuration consists of single electrons, confined individually on liquid helium by the microelectrodes, moving along the surface as the harmonic oscillators. It has been known that the spin of an electron could be coupled to its orbit (i.e., the vibrational motion) by properly applying a magnetic field. Based on this single electron spin-orbit coupling, here we show that a Jaynes-Cummings (JC) type interaction between the spin of an electron and the orbit of another electron at a distance could be realized via the strong Coulomb interaction between the electrons. Consequently, the proposed JC interaction could be utilized to realize a strong orbit-mediated spin-spin coupling and implement the desirable quantum information processing between the distant electrons trapped individually on liquid helium.

id: 1203.4114
title: Exclusion Principle for Quantum Dense Coding
authors: R. Prabhu, Arun Kumar Pati, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: v2: 6 pages, RevTeX 4, title changed, previous results unchanged, new results added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052319 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4114
abstract: We show that the classical capacity of quantum states, as quantified by its ability to perform dense coding, respects an exclusion principle, for arbitrary pure or mixed three-party states in any dimension. This states that no two bipartite states which are reduced states of a common tripartite quantum state can have simultaneous quantum advantage in dense coding. The exclusion principle is robust against noise. Such principle also holds for arbitrary number of parties. This exclusion principle is independent of the content and distribution of entanglement in the multipartite state. We also find a strict monogamy relation for multi-port classical capacities of multi-party quantum states in arbitrary dimensions. In the scenario of two senders and a single receiver, we show that if two of them wish to send classical information to a single receiver independently, then the corresponding dense coding capacities satisfy the monogamy relation, similar to the one for quantum correlations.

id: 1203.4136
title: Encoding relativistic potential dynamics into free evolution
authors: C. Sab¨ªn, J. Casanova, J. J. Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, L. Lamata, E. Solano, J. Le¨®n
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. v2: Minor changes, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4136
abstract: We propose a method to simulate a Dirac or Majorana equation evolving under a potential with the use of the corresponding free evolution, while the potential dynamics is encoded in a static transformation upon the initial state. We extend our results to interacting two-body systems.

id: 1203.4146
title: Time of arrival operator on the circle. (Variations on two Mielnik's works)
authors: M. Przanowski, M. Skulimowski, J. Tosiek
comments: 7 pages; a talk presented at the XXX Workshop on Geometric Methods in Physics, Bialowieza, Poland, 2011
journal: XXX Workshop on Geometric Methods in Physics, Eds. P. Kielanowski, S. Twareque Ali, A. Odzijewicz et al, Birkhauser (2013), p. 265
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4146
abstract: Using the orthodox Weyl -- Wigner -- Stratonovich -- Cohen (WWSC) quantization rule we construct a time -- of -- arrival operator for a free particle on the circle. It is shown that this operator is self -- adjoint but the careful analysis of its properties suggests that it cannot represent a `physical' time -- of -- arrival observable. The problem of a time -- of -- arrival observable for the `waiting screen' is also considered. A method of avoiding the quantum Zeno effect is proposed and the positive operator valued measure (POV -- measure) or the generalized positive operator valued measure (GPOV -- measure) describing quantum time -- of -- arrival observable for the waiting screen are found.

id: 1203.4155
title: Classical and quantum partition bound and detector inefficiency
authors: S. Laplante, V. Lerays, J. Roland
comments: 21 pages, extended version
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Volume 7391, pages 617-628, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4155
abstract: We study randomized and quantum efficiency lower bounds in communication complexity. These arise from the study of zero-communication protocols in which players are allowed to abort. Our scenario is inspired by the physics setup of Bell experiments, where two players share a predefined entangled state but are not allowed to communicate. Each is given a measurement as input, which they perform on their share of the system. The outcomes of the measurements should follow a distribution predicted by quantum mechanics; however, in practice, the detectors may fail to produce an output in some of the runs. The efficiency of the experiment is the probability that the experiment succeeds (neither of the detectors fails). When the players share a quantum state, this gives rise to a new bound on quantum communication complexity (eff*) that subsumes the factorization norm. When players share randomness instead of a quantum state, the efficiency bound (eff), coincides with the partition bound of Jain and Klauck. This is one of the strongest lower bounds known for randomized communication complexity, which subsumes all the known combinatorial and algebraic methods including the rectangle (corruption) bound, the factorization norm, and discrepancy. The lower bound is formulated as a convex optimization problem. In practice, the dual form is more feasible to use, and we show that it amounts to constructing an explicit Bell inequality (for eff) or Tsirelson inequality (for eff*). We give an example of a quantum distribution where the violation can be exponentially bigger than the previously studied class of normalized Bell inequalities. For one-way communication, we show that the quantum one-way partition bound is tight for classical communication with shared entanglement up to arbitrarily small error.

id: 1203.4173
title: Generation of entangled tripartite states in three identical cavities
authors: Moorad Alexanian
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4173
abstract: The generation of entanglement between three identical coupled cavities, each containing a single three-level atom, is studied when the cavities exchange two coherent photons and are in the N=2, 4, and 6 manifolds, where $N$ represents the maximum number of photons possible in any one cavity. The combined states of the atom and the photon in a cavity is given by a qutrit for N=2, a five-dimensional qudit for N=4, and a seven-dimensional qudit for N=6. The conservation of the operator $\hat{N}$ for the interacting three-cavity system limits the total number of tripartite states to only 6, 18, and 38, rather than the usual $3^3=27$, $5^3=125$, and $7^3 =343$ states for N=2, 4, and 6, respectively. The deterministic generation of entanglement from general initially unentangled tripartite states is studied in the limit of large hopping strength, where all the solutions are analytic and given in terms of exponential functions. Several types of resulting tripartite entanglement are analyzed in order to obtain maximally entangled states.

id: 1203.4215
title: The Complete Quantum Cheshire Cat
authors: Yelena Guryanova, Nicolas Brunner, Sandu Popescu
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4215
abstract: We show that a physical property can be entirely separated from the object it belongs to, hence realizing a complete quantum Cheshire cat. Our setup makes use of a type of quantum state of particular interest, namely an entangled pre- and post-selected state, in which the pre- and post-selections are entangled with each other. Finally we propose a scheme for the experimental implementation of these ideas.

id: 1203.4277
title: Optimisation of two-dimensional ion trap arrays for quantum simulation
authors: James D. Siverns, Seb Weidt, Kim Lake, Bjoern Lekitsch, Marcus D. Hughes, Winfried K. Hensinger
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 085009 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4277
abstract: The optimisation of two-dimensional (2D) lattice ion trap geometries for trapped ion quantum simulation is investigated. The geometry is optimised for the highest ratio of ion-ion interaction rate to decoherence rate. To calculate the electric field of such array geometries a numerical simulation based on a "Biot-Savart like law" method is used. In this article we will focus on square, hexagonal and centre rectangular lattices for optimisation. A method for maximising the homogeneity of trapping site properties over an array is presented for arrays of a range of sizes. We show how both the polygon radii and separations scale to optimise the ratio between the interaction and decoherence rate. The optimal polygon radius and separation for a 2D lattice is found to be a function of the ratio between rf voltage and drive frequency applied to the array. We then provide a case study for 171Yb+ ions to show how a two-dimensional quantum simulator array could be designed.

id: 1203.4296
title: Exchange-Only Dynamical Decoupling in the 3-Qubit Decoherence Free Subsystem
authors: Jacob R. West, Bryan H. Fong
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 14 083002 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4296
abstract: The Uhrig dynamical decoupling sequence achieves high-order decoupling of a single system qubit from its dephasing bath through the use of bang-bang Pauli pulses at appropriately timed intervals. High-order decoupling of single and multiple qubit systems from baths causing both dephasing and relaxation can also be achieved through the nested application of Uhrig sequences, again using single-qubit Pauli pulses. For the 3-qubit decoherence free subsystem (DFS) and related subsystem encodings, Pauli pulses are not naturally available operations; instead, exchange interactions provide all required encoded operations. Here we demonstrate that exchange interactions alone can achieve high-order decoupling against general noise in the 3-qubit DFS. We present decoupling sequences for a 3-qubit DFS coupled to classical and quantum baths and evaluate the performance of the sequences through numerical simulations.

id: 1203.4300
title: Clock synchronization using maximal multipartite entanglement
authors: Changliang Ren, Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 
journal: PhysRevA.86.014301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4300
abstract: We propose a multi party quantum clock synchronization protocol that makes optimal use of the maximal multipartite entanglement of GHZ-type states. To realize the protocol, different versions of maximally entangled eigenstates of collective energy are generated by local transformations that distinguish between different groupings of the parties. The maximal sensitivity of the entangled states to time differences between the local clocks can then be accessed if all parties share the results of their local time dependent measurements. The efficiency of the protocol is evaluated in terms of the statistical errors in the estimation of time differences and the performance of the protocol is compared to alternative protocols previously proposed.

id: 1203.4321
title: Field test of the wavelength-saving quantum key distribution network
authors: Shuang Wang, Wei Chen, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Yang Zhang, Tao Zhang, Hong-Wei Li, Fang-Xing Xu, Zheng Zhou, Yang Yang, Da-Jun Huang, Li-Jun Zhang, Fang-Yi Li, Dong Liu, Yong-Gang Wang, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, 35, 2454-2456(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4321
abstract: We propose a wavelength-saving topology of quantum key distribution(QKD) network based on passive optical elements, and report the field test of this network on the commercial telecom optical fiber. In this network, 5 nodes are supported with 2 wavelengths, and every two nodes can share secure keys directly at the same time. All QKD links in the network operate at the frequency of 20 MHz. We also characterized the insertion loss and crosstalk effects on the point-to-point QKD system after introducing this QKD network.

id: 1203.4323
title: 2-GHz clock quantum key distribution over 260 km of standard telecom fiber
authors: Shuang Wang, Wei Chen, Jun-Fu Guo, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Hong-Wei Li, Zheng Zhou, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, 37, 1008-1010 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4323
abstract: We report a demonstration of quantum key distribution (QKD) over a standard telecom fiber exceeding 50 dB in loss and 250 km in length. The differential phase shift QKD protocol was chosen and implemented with 2 GHz system clock rate. By careful optimization of the 1-bit delayed Faraday-Michelson interferometer and the use of the super-conducting single photon detector (SSPD), we achieved a quantum bit error rate below 2% when the fiber length was no more than 205 km, and of 3.45% for the 260 km length fiber with 52.9 dB loss. We also improved the quantum efficiency of SSPD to obtain high key rate for 50 km length.

id: 1203.4325
title: Signal detection without finite-energy limits to quantum resolution
authors: Alfredo Luis
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Annals of Physics vol. 331, pp 1-8 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4325
abstract: We show that there are extremely simple signal detection schemes where the finiteness of energy resources places no limit to the resolution. On the contrary, larger resolution can be obtained with lower energy. To this end the generator of the signal-dependent transformation encoding the signal information on the probe state must be different from the energy. We show that the larger the deviation of the probe state from being minimum-uncertainty state, the better the resolution.

id: 1203.4384
title: Disembodiment of Physical Properties by Pre- and Post-Selections
authors: Chang-Ling Zou, Xu-Bo Zou, F.-W. Sun, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4384
abstract: The detailed study of disembodiment of physical properties by pre- and post-selection is present. A criterion is given to disembody physical properties for single particle with multiple degrees of freedom. It is shown that the non-commute operators can also be well separated in different paths. We generalize the disembodiment to entangled particles, and found that the disembodiment can happen under special conditions due to the entanglement.

id: 1203.4390
title: Polarization Properties of the "Photon Pistol"
authors: V. A. Reshetov
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Communications 285 (2012) 4457-4461
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4390
abstract: The deterministic single-photon emission by means of STIRAP through the atoms with degenerate levels is studied. The expression for the polarization matrix of the emitted photon is obtained and its dependence on the polarization of the driving laser field and on the initial atomic state is examined.

id: 1203.4414
title: Characterization of RF Inhomogeneity via NOON states
authors: Abhishek Shukla, T. S. Mahesh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4414
abstract: We describe a method for quantitative characterization of radio-frequency (RF) inhomogeneity using NOON states. NOON states are special multiple-quantum coherences which can be easily prepared in star-topology spin-systems. In this method we exploit the high sensitivity of the NOON states for z-rotations. As a result, Torrey oscillations with NOON states decay much faster than that of single quantum coherences. Therefore the present method requires shorter pulse durations, and enables the study of inhomogeneity at higher RF powers. To model such a inhomogeneity profile, we propose a two-parameter asymmetric Lorentzian function. The experiments are carried out in 1H channels of two different high-resolution NMR probes and the results are compared. Finally, we also extend the NOON state method to characterize the inhomogeneity correlations between two RF channels. We obtain the correlation profile between 1H and 31P channels of an NMR probe by constructing a five-parameter asymmetric-3D Lorentzian model.

id: 1203.4417
title: Characteristics of displaced single photons attained via higher order factorial moments
authors: Kaisa Laiho, Malte Avenhaus, Christine Silberhorn
comments: Extended version, 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 105011 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4417
abstract: We investigate up to the fourth order normalized factorial moments of free-propagating and pulsed single photons displaced in phase space in a phase-averaged manner. Due to their loss independence, these moments offer expedient methods for quantum optical state characterization. We examine quantum features of the prepared displaced states, retrieve information on their photon-number content and study the reliability of the state reconstruction method used.

id: 1203.4444
title: Using quantum state protection via dissipation in a quantum-dot molecule to solve the Deutsch problem
authors: M. M. Santos, F. O. Prado, H. S. Borges, A. M. Alcalde, J. M. Villas-B?as, E. I. Duzzioni
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032323 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4444
abstract: The wide set of control parameters and reduced size scale make semiconductor quantum dots attractive candidates to implement solid-state quantum computation. Considering an asymmetric double quantum dot coupled by tunneling, we combine the action of a laser field and the spontaneous emission of the excitonic state to protect an arbitrary superposition state of the indirect exciton and ground state. As a by-product we show how to use the protected state to solve the Deutsch problem.

id: 1203.4498
title: A Hypergeometric Formula Yielding Hilbert-Schmidt Generic 2 x 2 Generalized Separability Probabilities
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures (Fig. 3 is the titular formula); slightly modified presentation; confirmation by C. Dunkl of quaternionic (alpha =2) moment formulas for n =1, 2 also noted (p. 2)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4498
abstract: We significantly advance the research program initiated in "Moment-Based Evidence for Simple Rational-Valued Hilbert-Schmidt Generic 2 x 2 Separability Probabilities" (J. Phys. A, 45, 095305 [2012]). A function P(alpha), incorporating a family of six hypergeometric functions, all with argument 27/64 =(3/4)^3, is obtained here. It reproduces a series, alpha = 1/2, 1, 3/2, 2,...,32$, of sixty-four Hilbert-Schmidt generic 2 x 2 generalized separability probabilities, advanced on the basis of systematic high-accuracy probability-distribution-reconstruction computations, employing 7,501 determinantal moments of partially transposed 4 x 4 density matrices. For generic (9-dimensional) two-rebit systems, P(1/2) = 29/64, (15-dimensional) two-qubit, P(1) = 8/33, and (27-dimensional) two-quat(ernionic)bit systems, P(2)= 26/323. The function P(alpha) is generated--applying the Mathematica command FindSequenceFunction--using solely either) the thirty-two integral or half-integral probabilities, yet successfully predicts the unused thirty-two.

id: 1203.4516
title: Information-theoretic postulates for quantum theory
authors: Markus P. Mueller, Lluis Masanes
comments: Self-contained summary (book chapter) of arXiv:1004.1483 with less technical details. 16 pages, 3 figures. v2: typos corrected, some clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4516
abstract: Why are the laws of physics formulated in terms of complex Hilbert spaces? Are there natural and consistent modifications of quantum theory that could be tested experimentally? This book chapter gives a self-contained and accessible summary of our paper [New J. Phys. 13, 063001, 2011] addressing these questions, presenting the main ideas, but dropping many technical details. We show that the formalism of quantum theory can be reconstructed from four natural postulates, which do not refer to the mathematical formalism, but only to the information-theoretic content of the physical theory. Our starting point is to assume that there exist physical events (such as measurement outcomes) that happen probabilistically, yielding the mathematical framework of "convex state spaces". Then, quantum theory can be reconstructed by assuming that (i) global states are determined by correlations between local measurements, (ii) systems that carry the same amount of information have equivalent state spaces, (iii) reversible time evolution can map every pure state to every other, and (iv) positivity of probabilities is the only restriction on the possible measurements.

id: 1203.4525
title: Quantum State Orthogonalization and a Toolset for Quantum Optomechanical Phonon Control
authors: M. R. Vanner, M. Aspelmeyer, M. S. Kim
comments: (Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett.) 7 pages, 3 figures, includes supplementary material (submitted for review 16th March 2012), additional orthogonalization methods (Jaynes-Cummings or beam-splitter interaction) included in this version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 010504 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4525
abstract: We introduce a method that can orthogonalize any pure continuous variable quantum state, i.e. generate a state $|\psi_\perp>$ from $|\psi>$ where $<\psi|\psi_\perp> = 0$, which does not require significant a priori knowledge of the input state. We illustrate how to achieve orthogonalization using the Jaynes-Cummings or beam-splitter interaction, which permits realization in a number of systems. Furthermore, we demonstrate how to orthogonalize the motional state of a mechanical oscillator in a cavity optomechanics context by developing a set of coherent phonon level operations. As the mechanical oscillator is a stationary system such operations can be performed at multiple times, providing considerable versatility for quantum state engineering applications. Utilizing this, we additionally introduce a method how to transform any known pure state into any desired target state.

id: 1203.4540
title: Interaction-induced impeding of decoherence and anomalous diffusion
authors: Dario Poletti, Jean-Sebastien Bernier, Antoine Georges, Corinna Kollath
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 045302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4540
abstract: We study how the interplay of dissipation and interactions affects the dynamics of a bosonic many-body quantum system. In the presence of both dissipation and strongly repulsive interactions, observables such as the coherence and the compressibility display three dynamical regimes: an initial exponential variation followed by a power-law regime and finally a slow exponential convergence to their asymptotic values corresponding to the infinite temperature state. These very long-time scales arise as dissipation forces the population of states disfavored by interactions. The long-time, strong coupling dynamics are understood by performing a mapping onto a classical diffusion process displaying non-Brownian behavior. While both dissipation and strong interactions tend to suppress coherence when acting separately, we find that strong interaction impedes the decoherence process generated by the dissipation.

id: 1203.4550
title: Efficient measurement of quantum gate error by interleaved randomized benchmarking
authors: Easwar Magesan, Jay M. Gambetta, B. R. Johnson, Colm A. Ryan, Jerry M. Chow, Seth T. Merkel, Marcus P. da Silva, George A. Keefe, Mary B. Rothwell, Thomas A. Ohki, Mark B. Ketchen, M. Steffen
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 080505 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4550
abstract: We describe a scalable experimental protocol for obtaining estimates of the error rate of individual quantum computational gates. This protocol, in which random Clifford gates are interleaved between a gate of interest, provides a bounded estimate of the average error of the gate under test so long as the average variation of the noise affecting the full set of Clifford gates is small. This technique takes into account both state preparation and measurement errors and is scalable in the number of qubits. We apply this protocol to a superconducting qubit system and find gate errors that compare favorably with the gate errors extracted via quantum process tomography.

id: 1203.4551
title: Analytic influence functionals for numerical Feynman integrals in most open quantum systems
authors: Nikesh S. Dattani, Felix A. Pollock, David M. Wilkins
comments: 11 page, 1 figure, 4 footnotes, 35 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4551
abstract: Fully analytic formulas, which do not involve any numerical integration, are derived for the discretized influence functionals of a very extensive assortment of spectral distributions. For Feynman integrals derived using the Trotter splitting and Strang splitting, we present general formulas for the discretized influence functionals in terms of proper integrals of the bath response function. When an analytic expression exists for the bath response function, these integrals can almost always be evaluated analytically. In cases where these proper integrals cannot be integrated analytically, numerically computing them is much faster and less error-prone than calculating the discretized influence functionals in the traditional way, which involves numerically calculating integrals whose bounds are both infinite. As an example, we present the analytic discretized influence functional for a bath response function of the form \alpha(t)=\sum_{j}^{K}p_{j}e^{\Omega_{j}t}, which is a natural form for many spectral distribution functions (including the very popular Lorentz-Drude/Debye function), and for other spectral distribution functions it is a form that is easily obtainable by a least-squares fit . Evaluating our analytic formulas for this example case is much faster and easier to implement than numerically calculating the discretized influence funcitonal in the traditional way. In the appendix we provide analytic expressions for p_{j} and \Omega_{j} for a variety of spectral distribution forms, and as a second example we provide the analytic bath response function and analytic influence functionals for spectral distributions of the form J(\omega)\propto\omega^{s}e^{-(\omega/\omega_{c})^{q}}. The value of the analytic expression for this bath response function extends beyond its use for calculating Feynman integrals.

id: 1203.4585
title: Ancilla models for quantum operations: For what unitaries does the ancilla state have to be physical?
authors: Zhang Jiang, Marco Piani, Carlton M. Caves
comments: Quantum Information Processing, (2012)
journal: Quantum Information Processing May 2013, Volume 12, Issue 5, pp 1999-2017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4585
abstract: Any evolution described by a completely positive trace-preserving linear map can be imagined as arising from the interaction of the evolving system with an initially uncorrelated ancilla. The interaction is given by a joint unitary operator, acting on the system and the ancilla. Here we study the properties such a unitary operator must have in order to force the choice of a physical- that is, positive-state for the ancilla if the end result is to be a physical-that is, completely positive-evolution of the system.

id: 1203.4612
title: Markovian Classicality from Zero Discord for Bipartite Quantum Systems
authors: M. Arsenijevic, J. Jeknic-Dugic, M. Dugic
comments: A new version placed as arxiv:1204.2789
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4612
abstract: Modern quantum information theory provides new tools for investigating the decoherence-induced "classicality" of open quantum systems. Recent observation that almost all quantum states bear non-classical correlations [A. Ferraro {\it et al}, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 81}, 052318 (2010)] distinguishes the zero-discord classicality essentially as a pathology of the Markovian bipartite-systems realm. Nevertheless, we formally construct such a classical model and its variant that represents a matter-of-principle formal proof, i.e. a sufficient condition for the, otherwise not obvious, existence of the Markovian zero-discord classicality. A need for the more elaborate and more systematic search for the alternative such models reveals we are still learning about the very meaning of "classicality" in the realm of open quantum systems.

id: 1203.4629
title: Temperature crossover of decoherence rates in chaotic and regular bath dynamics
authors: A. S. Sanz, Y. Elran, P. Brumer
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 036218 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4629
abstract: The effect of chaotic bath dynamics on the decoherence of a quantum system is examined for the vibrational degrees of freedom of a diatomic molecule in a realistic, constant temperature collisional bath. As an example, the specific case of I$_2$ in liquid xenon is examined as a function of temperature, and the results compared with an integrable xenon bath. A crossover in behavior is found: the integrable bath induces more decoherence at low bath temperatures than does the chaotic bath, whereas the opposite is the case at the higher bath temperatures. These results, verifying a conjecture due to Wilkie, shed light on the differing views of the effect of chaotic dynamics on system decoherence.

id: 1203.4631
title: Protecting and Enhancing Spin Squeezing via Continuous Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Adam Zaman Chaudhry, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, submitting to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012311 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4631
abstract: Realizing useful quantum operations with high fidelity is a two-task quantum control problem wherein decoherence is to be suppressed and desired unitary evolution is to be executed. The dynamical decoupling (DD) approach to decoherence suppression has been fruitful but synthesizing DD fields with certain quantum control fields may be experimentally demanding. In the context of spin squeezing, here we explore an unforeseen possibility that continuous DD fields may serve dual purposes at once. In particular, it is shown that a rather simple configuration of DD fields can suppress collective decoherence and yield a 1/N scaling of the squeezing performance (N is the number of spins), thus making spin squeezing more robust to noise and much closer to the so-called Heisenberg limit. The theoretical predictions should be within the reach of current spin squeezing experiments.

id: 1203.4687
title: A general theorem on local parts of hidden variable models
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Raffaele Romano
comments: 5 pages, submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022107 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4687
abstract: We extend to any maximally entangled state of a bipartite system whose constituents are arbitrarily (but finite) dimensional the result, recently derived for two-dimensional constituents, that hidden variable theories cannot have local parts, i.e., that their local averages cannot differ from the quantum mechanical ones.

id: 1203.4719
title: Bounds for Entanglement via an Extension of Strong Subadditivity of Entropy
authors: Eric A. Carlen, Elliott H. Lieb
comments: 8 pages. Version 2 includes some additional references and comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4719
abstract: We prove lower bounds for the entanglement of formation and the squashed entanglement for any a bipartite density matrix in terms of the conditional entropy of the bipartite state with respect to either of its partial traces, and prove that these bounds are sharp by constructing a new class of states whose entanglements can be computed, and for which the bounds are saturated.

id: 1203.4740
title: Quantum Money from Hidden Subspaces
authors: Scott Aaronson, Paul Christiano
comments: 48 pages, minor corrections and improvements, journal version to appear in Theory of Computing; Proceedings of ACM STOC 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4740
abstract: Forty years ago, Wiesner pointed out that quantum mechanics raises the striking possibility of money that cannot be counterfeited according to the laws of physics. We propose the first quantum money scheme that is (1) public-key, meaning that anyone can verify a banknote as genuine, not only the bank that printed it, and (2) cryptographically secure, under a "classical" hardness assumption that has nothing to do with quantum money. Our scheme is based on hidden subspaces, encoded as the zero-sets of random multivariate polynomials. A main technical advance is to show that the "black-box" version of our scheme, where the polynomials are replaced by classical oracles, is unconditionally secure. Previously, such a result had only been known relative to a quantum oracle (and even there, the proof was never published). Even in Wiesner's original setting -- quantum money that can only be verified by the bank -- we are able to use our techniques to patch a major security hole in Wiesner's scheme. We give the first private-key quantum money scheme that allows unlimited verifications and that remains unconditionally secure, even if the counterfeiter can interact adaptively with the bank. Our money scheme is simpler than previous public-key quantum money schemes, including a knot-based scheme of Farhi et al. The verifier needs to perform only two tests, one in the standard basis and one in the Hadamard basis -- matching the original intuition for quantum money, based on the existence of complementary observables. Our security proofs use a new variant of Ambainis's quantum adversary method, and several other tools that might be of independent interest.

id: 1203.4779
title: Implications of the Pusey-Barrett-Rudolph quantum no-go theorem
authors: Maximilian Schlosshauer, Arthur Fine
comments: 4 pages. v2: tweaked presentation, new title; v3: minuscule edits to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 260404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4779
abstract: Pusey, Barrett, and Rudolph introduce a new no-go theorem for hidden-variables models of quantum theory. We make precise the class of models targeted and construct equivalent models that evade the theorem. The theorem requires assumptions for models of composite systems, which we examine, determining "compactness" as the weakest assumption needed. On that basis, we demonstrate results of the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem. Given compactness and the relevant class of models, the theorem can be seen as showing that some measurements on composite systems must have built-in inefficiencies, complicating its testing.

id: 1203.4785
title: Robust entanglement generation by reservoir engineering
authors: Christine A. Muschik, Hanna Krauter, Kasper Jensen, Jonas M. Petersen, J. Ignacio Cirac, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: Submitted to Journal of Physics B, special issue on "Quantum Memory"
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 124021 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4785
abstract: Following a recent proposal [C. Muschik et. al., Phys. Rev. A 83, 052312 (2011)], engineered dissipative processes have been used for the generation of stable entanglement between two macroscopic atomic ensembles at room temperature [H. Krauter et. al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 080503 (2011)]. This experiment included the preparation of entangled states which are continuously available during a time interval of one hour. Here, we present additional material, further-reaching data and an extension of the theory developed in [C. Muschik et. al., Phys. Rev. A 83, 052312 (2011)]. In particular, we show how the combination of the entangling dissipative mechanism with measurements can give rise to a substantial improvement of the generated entanglement in the presence of noise.

id: 1203.4792
title: Effect of Squeezing on the Atomic and the Entanglement Dynamics in the Jaynes-Cummings Model
authors: T. Subeesh, Vivishek Sudhir, A. B. M. Ahmed, M. Venkata Satyanarayana
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4792
abstract: The dynamics of the Jaynes-Cummings interaction of a two-level atom interacting with a single mode of the radiation field is investigated, as the state of the field is gradually changed from a coherent state to a squeezed coherent state. The effect of mild squeezing on the coherent light is shown to be striking: the photon number distribution gets localized and it peaks maximally for a particular value of squeezing. The atomic inversion retains its structure for a longer time. The mean linear entropy shows that the atom has a tendency to get disentangled from field within the collapse region and also in the revival region, for mild squeezing. These properties are absent for the case of a coherent state or for an excessively squeezed coherent state. We also elucidate a connection between these properties and the photon statistics of the mildly squeezed coherent state; these states have the minimum variance and are also maximally sub-Poissonian.

id: 1203.4834
title: Experimental delayed-choice entanglement swapping
authors: Xiao-song Ma, Stefan Zotter, Johannes Kofler, Rupert Ursin, Thomas Jennewein, ?aslav Brukner, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 8, 480-485 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4834
abstract: Motivated by the question, which kind of physical interactions and processes are needed for the production of quantum entanglement, Peres has put forward the radical idea of delayed-choice entanglement swapping. There, entanglement can be "produced a posteriori, after the entangled particles have been measured and may no longer exist". In this work we report the first realization of Peres' gedanken experiment. Using four photons, we can actively delay the choice of measurement-implemented via a high-speed tunable bipartite state analyzer and a quantum random number generator-on two of the photons into the time-like future of the registration of the other two photons. This effectively projects the two already registered photons onto one definite of two mutually exclusive quantum states in which either the photons are entangled (quantum correlations) or separable (classical correlations). This can also be viewed as "quantum steering into the past".

id: 1203.4878
title: Grassmann Variables and the Jaynes-Cummings Model
authors: Bryan J. Dalton, Barry M. Garraway, John Jeffers, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 57 pages, 0 figures. Version 1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4878
abstract: This paper shows that phase space methods using a positive P type distribution function involving both c-number variables (for the cavity mode) and Grassmann variables (for the two level atom) can be used to treat the Jaynes-Cummings model. Although it is a Grassmann function, the distribution function is equivalent to six c-number functions of the two bosonic variables. Experimental quantities are given as bosonic phase space integrals involving the six functions. A Fokker-Planck equation involving both left and right Grassmann differentiation can be obtained for the distribution function, and is equivalent to six coupled equations for the six c-number functions. The approach used involves choosing the canonical form of the (non-unique) positive P distribution function, where the correspondence rules for bosonic operators are non-standard and hence the Fokker-Planck equation is also unusual. Initial conditions, such as for initially uncorrelated states, are used to determine the initial distribution function. Transformations to new bosonic variables rotating at the cavity frequency enables the six coupled equations for the new c-number functions (also equivalent to the canonical Grassmann distribution function) to be solved analytically, based on an ansatz from a 1980 paper by Stenholm. It is then shown that the distribution function is the same as that determined from the well-known solution based on coupled equations for state vector amplitudes of atomic and n-photon product states. The treatment of the simple two fermion mode Jaynes-Cummings model is a useful test case for the future development of phase space Grassmann distribution functional methods for multi-mode fermionic applications in quantum-atom optics.

id: 1203.4885
title: Parallel Repetition of Prover-Verifier Quantum Interactions
authors: Abel Molina
comments: Chapter 5 includes results from arXiv 1104.1140
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4885
abstract: In this thesis, we answer several questions about the behaviour of prover-verifier interactions under parallel repetition when quantum information is allowed, and the verifier acts independently in them. We first consider the case in which a value is associated with each of the possible outcomes of an interaction. We prove that it is not possible for the prover to improve on the optimum average value per repetition by repeating the protocol multiple times in parallel. We look then at games in which the outcomes are classified into two types, winning outcomes and losing outcomes. We ask what is the optimal probability for the prover of winning at least k times out of n parallel repetitions, given that the optimal probability of winning when only one repetition is considered is $p$. A reasonable conjecture for the answer would be \sum_{m \geq k} {n \choose m} p^m (1-p)^{n-m}, as that is the answer when it is optimal for the prover to act independently. This is known to be the correct answer when k=n, and also in the classical case. It is also correct in some generalizations of the classical case that we will discuss later. We will show how this cannot be extended to all cases, presenting an example of an interaction with k=1,n=2 in which p\approx 0.85, but it is possible to always win at least once. We will then give some upper bounds on the optimal probability for the prover of winning k times out of n parallel repetitions. These bounds are expressed as a function of p. Finally, we will connect our results to the study of error reduction for quantum interactive proofs using parallel repetition.

id: 1203.4909
title: Balance between information gain and reversibility in weak measurement
authors: Yong Wook Cheong, Seung-Woo Lee
comments: 5 pages, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 150402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4909
abstract: We derive a tight bound between the quality of estimating a quantum state by measurement and the success probability of undoing the measurement in arbitrary dimensional systems, which completely describes the tradeoff relation between the information gain and reversibility. In this formulation, it is clearly shown that the information extracted from a weak measurement is erased through the reversing process. Our result broadens the information-theoretic perspective on quantum measurement as well as provides a standard tool to characterize weak measurements and reversals.

id: 1203.4940
title: Long term performance of the SwissQuantum quantum key distribution network in a field environment
authors: D. Stucki, M. Legre, F. Buntschu, B. Clausen, N. Felber, N. Gisin, L. Henzen, P. Junod, G. Litzistorf, P. Monbaron, L. Monat, J.-B. Page, D. Perroud, G. Ribordy, A. Rochas, S. Robyr, J. Tavares, R. Thew, P. Trinkler, S. Ventura, R. Voirol, N. Walenta, H. Zbinden
comments: Published in New Journal of Physics, this http URL
journal: New J. Phys. 13 123001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4940
abstract: In this paper, we report on the performance of the SwissQuantum quantum key distribution (QKD) network. The network was installed in the Geneva metropolitan area and run for more than one and a half years, from the end of March 2009 to the beginning of January 2011. The main goal of this experiment was to test the reliability of the quantum layer over a long period of time in a production environment. A key management layer has been developed to manage the key between the three nodes of the network. This QKD-secure network was used by end-users through an application layer.

id: 1203.4968
title: Useful multipartite correlations from useless reduced states
authors: Lars Erik W¨¹rflinger, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Antonio Ac¨ªn, Nicolas Gisin, Tamas Vertesi
comments: Changed order of presentation, references to previous work of G.Toth, O. G\"uhne, and co-workers added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4968
abstract: Understanding what can be inferred about a multi-particle quantum system from only the knowledge of its subparts is a highly non-trivial task. Clearly, if the global system doesn't contain any information resource, nor do its subparts. However, is the converse also true? We show that the answer to is negative. We provide three two-qubit states that are non-entangled, but such that any three-qubit state compatible with them is entangled. Entanglement can thus be deduced from the mere observation of separable reduced states. We extend this finding to correlations and provide local marginal correlations that are only compatible with global genuinely tripartite non-local correlations.

id: 1203.4977
title: Fighting Decoherence by Feedback-controlled Dissipation
authors: Gernot Schaller
comments: to appear in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 85, 062118 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4977
abstract: Repeated closed-loop control operations acting as piecewise-constant Liouville superoperators conditioned on the outcomes of regularly performed measurements may effectively be described by a fixed-point iteration for the density matrix. Even when all Liouville superoperators point to the completely mixed state, feedback of the measurement result may lead to a pure state, which can be interpreted as selective dampening of undesired states. Using a microscopic model, we exemplify this for a single qubit, which can be purified in an arbitrary single-qubit state by tuning the measurement direction and two qubits that may be purified towards a Bell state by applying a special continuous two-local measurement. The method does not require precise knowledge of decoherence channels and works for large reservoir temperatures provided measurement, processing, and control can be implemented in a continuous fashion.

id: 1203.4988
title: Strong Complementarity and Non-locality in Categorical Quantum Mechanics
authors: Bob Coecke, Ross Duncan, Aleks Kissinger, Quanlong Wang
comments: 15 pages (incl. 5 appendix). To appear: LiCS 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4988
abstract: Categorical quantum mechanics studies quantum theory in the framework of dagger-compact closed categories. Using this framework, we establish a tight relationship between two key quantum theoretical notions: non-locality and complementarity. In particular, we establish a direct connection between Mermin-type non-locality scenarios, which we generalise to an arbitrary number of parties, using systems of arbitrary dimension, and performing arbitrary measurements, and a new stronger notion of complementarity which we introduce here. Our derivation of the fact that strong complementarity is a necessary condition for a Mermin scenario provides a crisp operational interpretation for strong complementarity. We also provide a complete classification of strongly complementary observables for quantum theory, something which has not yet been achieved for ordinary complementarity. Since our main results are expressed in the (diagrammatic) language of dagger-compact categories, they can be applied outside of quantum theory, in any setting which supports the purely algebraic notion of strongly complementary observables. We have therefore introduced a method for discussing non-locality in a wide variety of models in addition to quantum theory. The diagrammatic calculus substantially simplifies (and sometimes even trivialises) many of the derivations, and provides new insights. In particular, the diagrammatic computation of correlations clearly shows how local measurements interact to yield a global overall effect. In other words, we depict non-locality.

id: 1203.5011
title: The Pauli equation with complex boundary conditions
authors: D. Kochan, D. Krejcirik, R. Novak, P. Siegl
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012), 444019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5011
abstract: We consider one-dimensional Pauli Hamiltonians in a bounded interval with possibly non-self-adjoint Robin-type boundary conditions. We study the influence of the spin-magnetic interaction on the interplay between the type of boundary conditions and the spectrum. A special attention is paid to PT-symmetric boundary conditions with the physical choice of the time-reversal operator T.

id: 1203.5024
title: Qubit relaxation from evanescent-wave Johnson noise
authors: Luke S. Langsjoen, Amrit Poudel, Maxim G. Vavilov, Robert Joynt
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 010301(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5024
abstract: In many quantum computer architectures, the qubits are in close proximity to metallic device elements. Metals have a high density of photon modes, and the fields spill out of the bulk metal because of the evanescent-wave component. Thus thermal and quantum electromagnetic Johnson- type noise from metallic device elements can decohere nearby qubits. In this paper we use quantum electrodynamics to compute the strength of this evanescent-wave Johnson noise as a function of distance z from a metallic half-space. Previous treatments have shown unphysical divergences at z = 0. We remedy this by using a proper non-local dielectric function. Decoherence rates of local qubits are proportional to the magnitude of electric or magnetic correlation functions evaluated at the qubit position. We present formulas for the decoherence rates. These formulas serve as an important constraint on future device architectures.

id: 1203.5039
title: Analytic l-state solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation for q-deformed Woods-Saxon plus generalized ring shape potential
authors: M. Chabab, A. Lahbas, M. Oulne
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5039
abstract: The analytical expressions for the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the Klein-Gordon equation for q-deformed Woods-Saxon plus new generalized ring shape potential are derived within the asymptotic iteration method. The obtained eigenvalues are given in a closed form and the corresponding normalized eigenvectors, for any l, are formulated in terms of the generalized Jacobi polynomials for the radial part of the Klein-Gordon equation and associated Legendre polynomials for its angular one. When the shape deformation is canceled, we recover the same solutions previously obtained by the Nikiforov-Uvarov method for the standard spherical Woods-Saxon potential. It is also shown that, from the obtained results, we can derive the solutions of this problem for Hulthen potential.

id: 1203.5068
title: Emergence of the pointer basis through the dynamics of correlations
authors: M. F. Cornelio, O. Jim¨¦nez Far¨ªas, F. F. Fanchini, I. Frerot, G. H. Aguilar, M. O. Hor-Meyll, M. C. de Oliveira, S. P. Walborn, A. O. Caldeira, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: 4+2 pgs, 3 figures. Title changed. Revised version to appear on PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5068
abstract: We use the classical correlation between a quantum system being measured and its measurement apparatus to analyze the amount of information being retrieved in a quantum measurement process. Accounting for decoherence of the apparatus, we show that these correlations may have a sudden transition from a decay regime to a constant level. This transition characterizes a non-asymptotic emergence of the pointer basis, while the system-apparatus can still be quantum correlated. We provide a formalization of the concept of emergence of a pointer basis in an apparatus subject to decoherence. This contrast of the pointer basis emergence to the quantum to classical transition is demonstrated in an experiment with polarization entangled photon pairs.

id: 1203.5087
title: Critical assessment of two-qubit post-Markovian master equations
authors: S. Campbell, A. Smirne, L. Mazzola, N. Lo Gullo, B. Vacchini, Th. Busch, M. Paternostro
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX4. Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032120 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5087
abstract: A post-Markovian master equation has been recently proposed as a tool to describe the evolution of a system coupled to a memory-keeping environment [A. Shabani and D. A. Lidar, Phys. Rev. A 71, 020101 (R) (2005)]. For a single qubit affected by appropriately chosen environmental conditions, the corresponding dynamics is always legitimate and physical. Here we extend such situation to the case of two qubits, only one of which experiences the environmental effects. We show how, despite the innocence of such an extension, the introduction of the second qubit should be done cum grano salis to avoid consequences such as the breaking of the positivity of the associated dynamical map. This hints at the necessity of using care when adopting phenomenologically derived models for evolutions occurring outside the Markovian framework.

id: 1203.5116
title: Measuring Gaussian quantum information and correlations using the Renyi entropy of order 2
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Davide Girolami, Alessio Serafini
comments: 6+5 pages, published in PRL. Typo in Eq. (1) corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 190502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5116
abstract: We demonstrate that the Renyi-2 entropy provides a natural measure of information for any multimode Gaussian state of quantum harmonic systems, operationally linked to the phase-space Shannon sampling entropy of the Wigner distribution of the state. We prove that, in the Gaussian scenario, such an entropy satisfies the strong subadditivity inequality, a key requirement for quantum information theory. This allows us to define and analyze measures of Gaussian entanglement and more general quantum correlations based on such an entropy, which are shown to satisfy relevant properties such as monogamy.

id: 1203.5172
title: The Aharonov-Casher and scalar Aharonov-Bohm topological effects
authors: Sayipjamal Dulat, Kai Ma
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108: 070405(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5172
abstract: We reexamine the topological and nonlocal natures of the Aharonov-Casher and scalar Aharonov-Bohm phase effects. The underlying U(1) gauge structure is exhibited explicitly. And the conditions for developing topological Aharonov-Casher and scalar Aharonov-Bohm phases are clarified. We analyse the arguments of M. Peshkin and H. J. Lipkin (Phys. Rev. Lett. 74, 2847(1995)) in detail and show that they are based on the wrong Hamiltonian which yields their conclusion incorrect.

id: 1203.5201
title: Mutually unbiased bases for the rotor degree of freedom
authors: Xin L¨¹, Philippe Raynal, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052316 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5201
abstract: We consider the existence of a continuous set of mutually unbiased bases for the continuous and periodic degree of freedom that describes motion on a circle (rotor degree of freedom). By a singular mapping of the circle to the line, we find a first, but somewhat unsatisfactory, continuous set which does not relate to an underlying Heisenberg pair of complementary observables. Then, by a nonsingular mapping of the discrete angular momentum basis of the rotor onto the Fock basis for linear motion, we construct such a Heisenberg pair for the rotor and use it to obtain a second, fully satisfactory, set of mutually unbiased bases.

id: 1203.5209
title: Positivity in the presence of initial system-environment correlation
authors: Kavan Modi, C¨¦sar A. Rodr¨ªguez-Rosario, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: close to the published version. 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 064102 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5209
abstract: The constraints imposed by the initial system-environment correlation can lead to nonpositive Dynamical maps. We find the conditions for positivity and complete positivity of such dynamical maps by using the concept of an assignment map. Any initial system-environment correlations make the assignment map nonpositive, while the positivity of the dynamical map depends on the interplay between the assignment map and the system-environment coupling. We show how this interplay can reveal or hide the nonpositivity of the assignment map. We discuss the role of this interplay in Markovian models.

id: 1203.5217
title: Unconditionally verifiable blind computation
authors: Joseph F. Fitzsimons, Elham Kashefi
comments: 42 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5217
abstract: Blind Quantum Computing (BQC) allows a client to have a server carry out a quantum computation for them such that the client's input, output and computation remain private. A desirable property for any BQC protocol is verification, whereby the client can verify with high probability whether the server has followed the instructions of the protocol, or if there has been some deviation resulting in a corrupted output state. A verifiable BQC protocol can be viewed as an interactive proof system leading to consequences for complexity theory. The authors, together with Broadbent, previously proposed a universal and unconditionally secure BQC scheme where the client only needs to be able to prepare single qubits in separable states randomly chosen from a finite set and send them to the server, who has the balance of the required quantum computational resources. In this paper we extend that protocol with new functionality allowing blind computational basis measurements, which we use to construct a new verifiable BQC protocol based on a new class of resource states. We rigorously prove that the probability of failing to detect an incorrect output is exponentially small in a security parameter, while resource overhead remains polynomial in this parameter. The new resource state allows entangling gates to be performed between arbitrary pairs of logical qubits with only constant overhead. This is a significant improvement on the original scheme, which required that all computations to be performed must first be put into a nearest neighbour form, incurring linear overhead in the number of qubits. Such an improvement has important consequences for efficiency and fault-tolerance thresholds.

id: 1203.5326
title: A General Approach to Casimir Force Problems Based on Local Reflection Amplitudes and Huygen's Principle
authors: C. D. Markle, R. Cowsik
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, Equation 18 has been corrected, [v1] contained a typo
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052516 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5326
abstract: In this paper we describe an approach to Casimir Force problems that is ultimately generalizable to all fields, boundary conditions, and cavity geometries. This approach utilizes locally defined reflection amplitudes to express the energy per unit area of any Casimir interaction. To demonstrate this approach we solve a number of Casimir Force problems including the case of uniaxial boundary conditions in a parallel-plate cavity.

id: 1203.5363
title: Low-Disorder Microwave Cavity Lattices for Quantum Simulation with Photons
authors: Devin L. Underwood, Will E. Shanks, Jens Koch, Andrew A. Houck
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023837 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5363
abstract: We assess experimentally the suitability of coupled transmission line resonators for studies of quantum phase transitions of light. We have measured devices with low photon hopping rates t/2pi = 0.8MHz to quantify disorder in individual cavity frequencies. The observed disorder is consistent with small imperfections in fabrication. We studied the dependence of the disorder on transmission line geometry and used our results to fabricate devices with disorder less than two parts in 10^4. The normal mode spectrum of devices with a high photon hopping rate t/2pi = 31MHz shows little effect of disorder, rendering resonator arrays a good backbone for the study of condensed matter physics with photons.

id: 1203.5373
title: Optimal Lyapunov-based quantum control for quantum systems
authors: S. C. Hou, M. A. Khan, Daoyi Dong, Ian R. Petersen, X. X. Yi
comments: 7 paages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022321 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5373
abstract: Quantum Lyapunov control was developed in order to transform a quantum system from arbitrary initial states to a target state. The idea is to find control fields that steer the Lyapunov function to zero as $t\rightarrow \infty$, meanwhile the quantum system is driven to the target state. In order to shorten the time required to reach the target state, we propose two designs to optimize Lyapunov control in this paper. The first design makes the Lyapunov function decrease as fast as possible with a constraint on the total power of control fields, and the second design has the same purpose but with a constraint on each control field. Examples of a three-level system demonstrate that the evolution time for Lyapunov control can be significantly shortened, especially when high control fidelity is required. Besides, this optimal Lyapunov-based quantum control is robust against uncertainties in the free Hamiltonian and decoherence in the system compared to conventional Lyapunov control.

id: 1203.5394
title: Dynamics of two-photon paired superradiance
authors: M. Yoshimura, N. Sasao, M. Tanaka
comments: 31 pages, 15 figures. Revised for publication. Title slightly changed, detailed explanation added, minor typos corrected. All equations and figures unchanged
journal: PRA 86, 013812(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5394
abstract: We develop for dipole-forbidden transition a dynamical theory of two-photon paired superradiance, or PSR for short. This is a cooperative process characterized by two photons back to back emitted with equal energies. By irradiation of trigger laser from two target ends, with its frequency tuned at the half energy between two levels, a macroscopically coherent state of medium and fields dynamically emerges as time evolves and large signal of amplified output occurs with a time delay. The basic semi-classical equations in 1+1 spacetime dimensions are derived for the field plus medium system to describe the spacetime evolution of the entire system, and numerically solved to demonstrate existence of both explosive and weak PSR phenomena in the presence of relaxation terms. The explosive PSR event terminates accompanying a sudden release of most energy stored in the target. Our numerical simulations are performed using a vibrational transition $X^1\Sigma_g^+ v=1 \rightarrow 0$ of para-H$_2$ molecule, and taking many different excited atom number densities and different initial coherences between the metastable and the ground states. In an example of number density close to $O[10^{21}]$cm$^{-3}$ and of high initial coherence, the explosive event terminates at several nano seconds after the trigger irradiation, when the phase relaxation time of $> O[10]$ ns is taken. After PSR events the system is expected to follow a steady state solution which is obtained by analytic means, and is made of many objects of field condensates endowed with a topological stability.

id: 1203.5396
title: A quantum walk with a delocalized initial state: contribution from a coin-flip operator
authors: Takuya Machida
comments: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol.11, No.5, 1350053 (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5396
abstract: A unit evolution step of discrete-time quantum walks is determined by both a coin-flip operator and a position-shift operator. The behavior of quantum walkers after many steps delicately depends on the coin-flip operator and an initial condition of the walk. To get the behavior, a lot of long-time limit distributions for the quantum walks starting with a localized initial state have been derived. In the present paper, we compute limit distributions of a 2-state quantum walk with a delocalized initial state, not a localized initial state, and discuss how the walker depends on the coin-flip operator. The initial state induced from the Fourier series expansion, which is called the $(\alpha,\beta)$ delocalized initial state in this paper, provides different limit density functions from the ones of the quantum walk with a localized initial state.

id: 1203.5400
title: Non-perturbative Dynamical Decoupling Control: A Spin Chain Model
authors: Zhao-Ming Wang, Lian-Ao Wu, Jun Jing, Bin Shao, Ting Yu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032303(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5400
abstract: This paper considers a spin chain model by numerically solving the exact model to explore the non-perturbative dynamical decoupling regime, where an important issue arises recently (J. Jing, L.-A. Wu, J. Q. You and T. Yu, arXiv:1202.5056.). Our study has revealed a few universal features of non-perturbative dynamical control irrespective of the types of environments and system-environment couplings. We have shown that, for the spin chain model, there is a threshold and a large pulse parameter region where the effective dynamical control can be implemented, in contrast to the perturbative decoupling schemes where the permissible parameters are represented by a point or converge to a very small subset in the large parameter region admitted by our non-perturbative approach. An important implication of the non-perturbative approach is its flexibility in implementing the dynamical control scheme in a experimental setup. Our findings have exhibited several interesting features of the non-perturbative regimes such as the chain-size independence, pulse strength upper-bound, noncontinuous valid parameter regions, etc. Furthermore, we find that our non-perturbative scheme is robust against randomness in model fabrication and time-dependent random noise.

id: 1203.5408
title: Analytical solutions for the Rabi model
authors: Lixian Yu, Shiqun Zhu, Qifeng Liang, Gang Chen, Suotang Jia
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5408
abstract: The Rabi model that describes the fundamental interaction between a two-level system with a quantized harmonic oscillator is one of the simplest and most ubiquitous models in modern physics. However, this model has not been solved exactly because it is hard to find a second conserved quantity besides the energy. Here we present a unitary transformation to map this unsolvable Rabi model into a solvable Jaynes-Cummings-like model by choosing a proper variation parameter. As a result, the analytical energy spectrums and wavefunctions including both the ground and the excited states can be obtained easily. Moreover, these explicit results agree well with the direct numerical simulations in a wide range of the experimental parameters. In addition, based on our obtained energy spectrums, the recent experimental observation of Bloch-Siegert in the circuit quantum electrodynamics with the ultrastrong coupling can be explained perfectly. Our results have the potential application in the solid-state quantum information processing.

id: 1203.5412
title: Gauge invariants of eigenspace and eigenvalue anholonomies: Examples in hierarchical quantum circuits
authors: Atushi Tanaka, Taksu Cheon, Sang Wook Kim
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures. Figures are added to illustrate examples
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 335305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5412
abstract: A set of gauge invariants are identified for the gauge theory of quantum anholonomies, which comprise both the Berry phase and an exotic anholonomy in eigenspaces. We examine these invariants for hierarchical families of quantum circuits whose qubit size can be arbitrarily large. It is also found that a hierarchical family of quantum circuits generally involves an NP-complete problem.

id: 1203.5478
title: A note on the one-dimensional hydrogen atom with minimal length uncertainty
authors: Pouria Pedram
comments: 12 pages, to appear in Journal Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 505304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5478
abstract: We present exact energy spectrum and eigenfunctions of the one-dimensional hydrogen atom in the presence of the minimal length uncertainty. By requiring the self-adjointness property of the Hamiltonian, we completely determine the quantization condition. We indicate that the single-valuedness criteria of the eigenfunctions in non-deformed case is an emergent condition and the semiclassical solutions exactly coincide with the quantum mechanical results. The behavior of the wave functions at the origin in coordinate space and in quasiposition space is discussed finally.

id: 1203.5516
title: 99%-fidelity ballistic quantum-state transfer through long uniform channels
authors: T. J. G. Apollaro, L. Banchi, A. Cuccoli, R. Vaia, P. Verrucchi
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052319 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5516
abstract: Quantum-state transfer with fidelity higher than 0.99 can be achieved in the ballistic regime of an arbitrarily long one-dimensional chain with uniform nearest-neighbor interaction, except for the two pairs of mirror symmetric extremal bonds, say x (first and last) and y (second and last-but-one). These have to be roughly tuned to suitable values x ~ 2 N^{-1/3} and y ~ 2^{3/4} N^{-1/6}, N being the chain length. The general framework can describe the end-to-end response in different models, such as fermion or boson hopping models and XX spin chains.

id: 1203.5534
title: Simple protocol for generating W states in resonator-based quantum computing architectures
authors: Andrei Galiautdinov
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5534
abstract: We describe a simple, practical scheme for generating multi-qubit W states in resonator-based architectures, in which N Josephson phase qubits are capacitively coupled to a common resonator bus. The entire control sequence consists of three pulses: a local Rabi pulse that excites a single qubit in the circuit; a coupling pulse that transfers the qubit excitation to the resonator bus; and the main, entangling operation that simultaneously couples the bus to all N qubits. If the qubit-resonator coupling strength g is much smaller than the qubit energy splitting, the system initially excited into the near-degenerate single-excitation subspace stays within that subspace, while smoothly evolving toward the fully uniform W state superposition. The duration of the final entangling operation is found to decrease with the total number of the qubits according to t = pi/[2gN^(1/2)], in agreement with some of the previously proposed cavity QED W state generation schemes.

id: 1203.5594
title: Three-Tangle in Non-inertial Frame
authors: Mi-Ra Hwang, Eylee Jung, DaeKil Park
comments: 9 pages, no figure V2: final version, will appear in CQG
journal: Classical and Quantum Gravity, 29 (2012) 224004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5594
abstract: Let Alice, Bob, and Charlie initially share an arbitrary fermionic three-qubit pure state, whose three-tangle is $\tau_3^{(0)}$. It is shown within the single-mode approximation that if one party among the three of them moves with a uniform acceleration with respect to the other parties, the three-tangle reduces to $\tau_3^{(0)} \cos^2 r$, where $r$ denotes a statistical factor in Fermi-Dirac statistics.

id: 1203.5598
title: Order in de Broglie - Bohm quantum mechanics
authors: G. Contopoulos, N. Delis, C. Efthymiopoulos
comments: 25 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5598
abstract: A usual assumption in the so-called {\it de Broglie - Bohm} approach to quantum dynamics is that the quantum trajectories subject to typical `guiding' wavefunctions turn to be quite irregular, i.e. {\it chaotic} (in the dynamical systems' sense). In the present paper, we consider mainly cases in which the quantum trajectories are {\it ordered}, i.e. they have zero Lyapunov characteristic numbers. We use perturbative methods to establish the existence of such trajectories from a theoretical point of view, while we analyze their properties via numerical experiments. Using a 2D harmonic oscillator system, we first establish conditions under which a trajectory can be shown to avoid close encounters with a moving nodal point, thus avoiding the source of chaos in this system. We then consider series expansions for trajectories both in the interior and the exterior of the domain covered by nodal lines, probing the domain of convergence as well as how successful the series are in comparison with numerical computations or regular trajectories. We then examine a H\'{e}non - Heiles system possessing regular trajectories, thus generalizing previous results. Finally, we explore a key issue of physical interest in the context of the de Broglie - Bohm formalism, namely the influence of order in the so-called {\it quantum relaxation} effect. We show that the existence of regular trajectories poses restrictions to the quantum relaxation process, and we give examples in which the relaxation is suppressed even when we consider initial ensembles of only chaotic trajectories, provided, however, that the system as a whole is characterized by a certain degree of order.

id: 1203.5607
title: Measuring central-spin interaction with a spin bath by pulsed ENDOR: Towards suppression of spin diffusion decoherence
authors: S. J. Balian, M. B. A. Kunze, M. H. Mohammady, G. W. Morley, W. M. Witzel, C. W. M. Kay, T. S. Monteiro
comments: Added journal ref., minor improvements
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 104428 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5607
abstract: We present pulsed electron-nuclear double resonance (ENDOR) experiments which enable us to characterize the coupling between bismuth donor spin qubits in Si and the surrounding spin bath of 29Si impurities which provides the dominant decoherence mechanism (nuclear spin diffusion) at low temperatures (< 16 K). Decoupling from the spin bath is predicted and cluster correlation expansion simulations show near-complete suppression of spin diffusion, at optimal working points. The suppression takes the form of sharply peaked divergences of the spin diffusion coherence time, in contrast with previously identified broader regions of insensitivity to classical fluctuations. ENDOR data suggest that anisotropic contributions are comparatively weak, so the form of the divergences is largely independent of crystal orientation.

id: 1203.5614
title: Photonic qubits, qutrits and ququads accurately prepared and delivered on demand
authors: Peter B. R. Nisbet-Jones, Jerome Dilley, Annemarie Holleczek, Oliver Barter, Axel Kuhn
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 053007 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5614
abstract: Reliable encoding of information in quantum systems is crucial to all approaches to quantum information processing or communication. This applies in particular to photons used in linear optics quantum computing (LOQC), which is scalable provided a deterministic single-photon emission and preparation is available. Here, we show that narrowband photons deterministically emitted from an atom-cavity system fulfill these requirements. Within their 500 ns coherence time, we demonstrate a subdivision into d time bins of various amplitudes and phases, which we use for encoding arbitrary qu-d-its. The latter is done deterministically with a fidelity >95% for qubits, verified using a newly developed time-resolved quantum-homodyne method.

id: 1203.5622
title: One simple postulate implies that every polytopic state space is classical
authors: Corsin Pfister
comments: Master thesis, Institute for Theoretical Physics, ETH Zurich
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5622
abstract: In order to find a physical axiomatization of quantum theory, physical theories are often considered as a special case of a much more general framework of generalized probabilistic theories. We first present a detailed introduction to generalized probabilistic theories before we examine new approaches towards a physical axiomatization of quantum theory. The main result of the thesis is that one postulate concerning post-measurement states (which have gained almost no attention in this context so far) is sufficient to rule out all probabilistic theories with a polytopic state space, except for classical theory. The postulate states that a measurement with a definite outcome does not alter the state. This rules out almost all toy theories considered so far, for instance the PR-box, but is compatible with quantum theory. Thus, this result can be seen as an approach towards a classification of quantum theory in physical terms. It only deals with local state spaces, in contrast to other approaches that are mostly concerned with nonlocality in composite systems.

id: 1203.5630
title: Non-Markovian Decoherent Quantum Walks
authors: Peng Xue, Yongsheng Zhang
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, new figures and references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5630
abstract: Quantum walk acts obviously different from its classical counterpart, but decoherence will lessen and close the gap between them. To understand this process, it is necessary to investigate the evolution of quantum walk under different situation of decoherence. In this article, we study a non-Markovian decoherent quantum walk on a line. In the short time regime, the behavior of the walk deviates from both idea quantum walks and classical random walks. The position variance as a measure of quantum walk starts oscillating from the first several steps and tends to be linear on time and showing a diffusive spread in the long time limit, which is caused by the non-Markovian dephasing affecting on quantum correlations between quantum walker and his coin. We also study both quantum discord and measurement-induced disturbance as measures of quantum correlations and observe that both of them oscillate in the short time regime and tend to be zero in the long time limit. Therefore quantum walk with non-Markovian decoherence tends to diffusive spreading behavior in the long time limit, while in the short time regime it oscillates between a ballistic and diffusive spreading behavior, and the quantum correlation collapses and revivals due to the memory effect.

id: 1203.5632
title: Anomalous Zeno effect for sharply localised atomic states
authors: D. Sokolovski, M. Pons, T. Kamalov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5632
abstract: We analyse non-quadratic in time Zeno effect which arises when a few-atom state initially trapped between two high laser-induced barriers is briefly released to free evolution. We identify the Zeno time, analyse the energy distributions of those atoms which have escaped an remained inside the trap, and obtain a simple relation between the survival and non-escape probabilities. The relevant time scales are such that the effect would be observable for the atomic species used in current laser experiments.

id: 1203.5659
title: Variational determination of the two-particle density matrix as a quantum many-body technique
authors: Brecht Verstichel
comments: PhD thesis; 196 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5659
abstract: In this thesis the variational optimisation of the density matrix is discussed as a method in many-body quantum mechanics. This is a relatively unknown technique in which one tries to obtain the two-particle reduced density matrix directly in a variational approach. In the first Chapter we introduce the subject in the broader context of many-body quantum mechanics, and briefly sketch the history of the field. The second Chapter tries to summarise what is known about N-representability of reduced density matrices, and derives these results in a unified framework. The optimisation problem can be formulated as a semidefinite program. Three different algorithms are discussed in Chapter three, and their performance is compared. In Chapter four we show how symmetry can be exploited to reduce the computational cost considerably. Several applications of the method are discussed in Chapter five. We show that the standard two-index constraints fail in the strong-correlation limit of the one-dimensional Hubbard model. In Chapter six we identify the spin-adapted lifting conditions as the most compact constraints that can correctly describe this limit.

id: 1203.5684
title: Effect of molecular rotation on enantioseparation
authors: Andreas Jacob, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 044313 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5684
abstract: Recently, several laser schemes have been proposed to separate racemic mixtures of enantiomers by splitting a molecular beam into subbeams consisting of molecules of definite chirality [Y. Li, C. Bruder, and C. P. Sun, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 130403 (2007); X. Li and M. Shapiro, J. Chem. Phys. 132, 194315 (2010)]. These ideas rely on laser-induced effective gauge potentials in an adiabatic basis which lead to a chirality dependent force on the center-of-mass. However, the effect of molecular rotation has been neglected in these studies. Accounting for the full molecular quantum state we find that the potentials from the adiabatic dressed state approach cannot be recovered once the molecular orientation dynamics is included, even in the rotational ground state. This affects substantially the ability to perform enantioseparation in the above mentioned setups.

id: 1203.5688
title: Towards a realistic interpretation of quantum mechanics providing a model of the physical world
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 43 pages, paper throughout revised and somewhat enlarged, sections on the Bell inequalities and on the sketch of a picture of the quantum world rewritten, new references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5688
abstract: It is argued that a realistic interpretation of quantum mechanics is possible and useful. Current interpretations, from Copenhagen to many worlds are critically revisited. The difficulties for intuitive models of quantum physics are pointed out and possible solutions proposed. In particular the existence of discrete states, the quantum jumps, the alleged lack of objective properties, measurement theory, the probabilistic character of quantum physics, the wave-particle du- ality and the Bell inequalities are analyzed. The sketch of a realistic picture of the quantum world is presented. It rests upon the assump- tion that quantum mechanics is a stochastic theory whose randomness derives from the existence of vacuum fields. They correspond to the vacuum fluctuations of quantum field theory, but taken as real rather than virtual.

id: 1203.5705
title: Classical dynamics of a two-species Bose-Einstein condensate in the presence of nonlinear maser processes
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, R.-K. Lee
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures. Accepted for publication as chapter in "Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking, Self-Trapping, and Josephson Oscillations in Nonlinear Systems"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5705
abstract: The stability analysis of a generalized Dicke model, in the semi-classical limit, describing the interaction of a two-species Bose-Einstein condensate driven by a quantized field in the presence of Kerr and spontaneous parametric processes is presented. The transitions from Rabi to Josephson dynamics are identified depending on the relative value of the involved parameters. Symmetry-breaking dynamics are shown for both types of coherent oscillations due to the quantized field and nonlinear optical processes.

id: 1203.5726
title: Charge Conjugation, Heavy Ions, e^+ e^- pairs: Was there a better way to add potentials to Dirac's free electrons?
authors: Samuel P. Bowen, Jay D. Mancini
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures, to be submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5726
abstract: This is a study of a possible alternative procedure for adding a potential energy to the free electron Dirac equation. When Dirac added potentials to his free electron equation, there were two alternatives (here called D1 and D2). He chose D1 and lost charge conjugation symmetry, found Ehrenfest equations that depended on the sign of the energy of the state determining the expectation value, encountered Klein tunneling, zitterbewegung and the Klein paradox. The D1 alternative also predicted that deep potentials should pull positive energy states down into the negative energy continuum, possibly creating an unstable vacuum. Extensive experiments (1975-1997) found no evidence for this instability, but did find low energy electron-positron pairs with sharply defined energies and unusually low counting statistics. These pairs tended to disappear with higher beam currents. This paper explores the other alternative, here called D2 and finds charge conjugation symmetry preserved, Ehrenfest equations are classical, Klein tunneling is not present, unstable vacuua are forbidden, zitterbewegung is absent in the charge current density, new excitations of bound electron-positron pairs are possible in atoms, and the energies at which low energy electron-positron pair production in heavy ion scattering occurs is well described. Also all of the positive energy calculations, including those with the Coulomb potential, the hydrogen-like atom, are retained exactly the same as found in alternative D1. It might have been better if Dirac had chosen alternative D2.

id: 1203.5794
title: Polar codes for private classical communication
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Joseph M. Renes
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, submission to the 2012 International Symposium on Information Theory and its Applications (ISITA 2012), Honolulu, Hawaii, USA
journal: Proceedings of the 2012 International Symposium on Information Theory and its Applications, pages 745-749, October 2012. Available at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?arnumber=6401041
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5794
abstract: We construct a new secret-key assisted polar coding scheme for private classical communication over a quantum or classical wiretap channel. The security of our scheme rests on an entropic uncertainty relation, in addition to the channel polarization effect. Our scheme achieves the symmetric private information rate by synthesizing "amplitude" and "phase" channels from an arbitrary quantum wiretap channel. We find that the secret-key consumption rate of the scheme vanishes for an arbitrary degradable quantum wiretap channel. Furthermore, we provide an additional sufficient condition for when the secret key rate vanishes, and we suspect that satisfying this condition implies that the scheme requires no secret key at all. Thus, this latter condition addresses an open question from the Mahdavifar-Vardy scheme for polar coding over a classical wiretap channel.

id: 1203.5801
title: Criticality without frustration for quantum spin-1 chains
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Libor Caha, Ramis Movassagh, Daniel Nagaj, Peter Shor
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. Version 2: minor changes in the proof of Lemma 3
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 207202 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5801
abstract: Frustration-free (FF) spin chains have a property that their ground state minimizes all individual terms in the chain Hamiltonian. We ask how entangled the ground state of a FF quantum spin-s chain with nearest-neighbor interactions can be for small values of s. While FF spin-1/2 chains are known to have unentangled ground states, the case s=1 remains less explored. We propose the first example of a FF translation-invariant spin-1 chain that has a unique highly entangled ground state and exhibits some signatures of a critical behavior. The ground state can be viewed as the uniform superposition of balanced strings of left and right parentheses separated by empty spaces. Entanglement entropy of one half of the chain scales as log(n)/2 + O(1), where n is the number of spins. We prove that the energy gap above the ground state is polynomial in 1/n. The proof relies on a new result concerning statistics of Dyck paths which might be of independent interest.

id: 1203.5813
title: Quantum computing and the entanglement frontier
authors: John Preskill
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures. Rapporteur talk at the 25th Solvay Conference on Physics ("The Theory of the Quantum World"), 19-22 October 2011. (v2): References added. (v3): Typo corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5813
abstract: Quantum information science explores the frontier of highly complex quantum states, the "entanglement frontier." This study is motivated by the observation (widely believed but unproven) that classical systems cannot simulate highly entangled quantum systems efficiently, and we hope to hasten the day when well controlled quantum systems can perform tasks surpassing what can be done in the classical world. One way to achieve such "quantum supremacy" would be to run an algorithm on a quantum computer which solves a problem with a super-polynomial speedup relative to classical computers, but there may be other ways that can be achieved sooner, such as simulating exotic quantum states of strongly correlated matter. To operate a large scale quantum computer reliably we will need to overcome the debilitating effects of decoherence, which might be done using "standard" quantum hardware protected by quantum error-correcting codes, or by exploiting the nonabelian quantum statistics of anyons realized in solid state systems, or by combining both methods. Only by challenging the entanglement frontier will we learn whether Nature provides extravagant resources far beyond what the classical world would allow.

id: 1203.5833
title: Generalized quantum tomographic maps
authors: M. Asorey, P. Facchi, V.I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, S. Pascazio, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5833
abstract: Some non-linear generalizations of classical Radon tomography were recently introduced by M. Asorey et al [Phys. Rev. A 77, 042115 (2008), where the straight lines of the standard Radon map are replaced by quadratic curves (ellipses, hyperbolas, circles) or quadratic surfaces (ellipsoids, hyperboloids, spheres). We consider here the quantum version of this novel non-linear approach and obtain, by systematic use of the Weyl map, a tomographic encoding approach to quantum states. Non-linear quantum tomograms admit a simple formulation within the framework of the star-product quantization scheme and the reconstruction formulae of the density operators are explicitly given in a closed form, with an explicit construction of quantizers and dequantizers. The role of symmetry groups behind the generalized tomographic maps is analyzed in some detail. We also introduce new generalizations of the standard singular dequantizers of the symplectic tomographic schemes, where the Dirac delta-distributions of operator-valued arguments are replaced by smooth window functions, giving rise to the new concept of "thick" quantum tomography. Applications for quantum state measurements of photons and matter waves are discussed.

id: 1203.5869
title: Geometric phase for an accelerated two-level atom and the Unruh effect
authors: Jiawei Hu, Hongwei Yu
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032105 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5869
abstract: We study, in the framework of open quantum systems, the geometric phase acquired by a uniformly accelerated two-level atom undergoing nonunitary evolution due to its coupling to a bath of fluctuating vacuum electromagnetic fields in the multipolar scheme. We find that the phase variation due to the acceleration can be in principle observed via atomic interferometry between the accelerated atom and the inertial one, thus providing an evidence of the Unruh effect.

id: 1203.5872
title: Algorithm for characterizing stochastic local operations and classical communication classes of multiparticle entanglement
authors: Hermann Kampermann, Otfried G¨¹hne, Colin Wilmott, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032307 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5872
abstract: It is well known that the classification of pure multiparticle entangled states according to stochastic local operations leads to a natural classification of mixed states in terms of convex sets. We present a simple algorithmic procedure to prove that a quantum state lies within a given convex set. Our algorithm generalizes a recent algorithm for proving separability of quantum states [J. Barreiro et al., Nature Phys. 6, 943 (2010)]. We give several examples which show the wide applicability of our approach. We also propose a procedure to determine a vicinity of a given quantum state which still belongs to the considered convex set.

id: 1203.5894
title: Density-potential mappings in quantum dynamics
authors: M. Ruggenthaler, K.J.H Giesbertz, M. Penz, R. van Leeuwen
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures, 3 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5894
abstract: In a recent letter [Europhys. Lett. 95, 13001 (2011)] the question of whether the density of a time-dependent quantum system determines its external potential was reformulated as a fixed point problem. This idea was used to generalize the existence and uniqueness theorems underlying time-dependent density functional theory. In this work we extend this proof to allow for more general norms and provide a numerical implementation of the fixed-point iteration scheme. We focus on the one-dimensional case as it allows for a more in-depth analysis using singular Sturm-Liouville theory and at the same time provides an easy visualization of the numerical applications in space and time. We give an explicit relation between the boundary conditions on the density and the convergence properties of the fixed-point procedure via the spectral properties of the associated Sturm-Liouville operator. We show precisely under which conditions discrete and continuous spectra arise and give explicit examples. These conditions are then used to show that in the most physically relevant cases the fixed point procedure converges. This is further demonstrated with an example.

id: 1203.5896
title: Semiclassical approximations for adiabatic slow-fast systems
authors: Stefan Teufel
comments: 
journal: Europhysics Letters 98, p. 50003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5896
abstract: In this letter we give a systematic derivation and justification of the semiclassical model for the slow degrees of freedom in adiabatic slow-fast systems first found by Littlejohn and Flynn [5]. The classical Hamiltonian obtains a correction due to the variation of the adiabatic subspaces and the symplectic form is modified by the curvature of the Berry connection. We show that this classical system can be used to approximate quantum mechanical expectations and the time-evolution of operators also in sub-leading order in the combined adiabatic and semiclassical limit. In solid state physics the corresponding semiclassical description of Bloch electrons has led to substantial progress during the recent years, see [1]. Here, as an illustration, we show how to compute the Piezo-current arising from a slow deformation of a crystal in the presence of a constant magnetic field.

id: 1203.5931
title: On the group theoretic structure of a class of quantum dialogue protocols
authors: Chitra Shukla, Vivek Kothari, Anindita Banerjee, Anirban Pathak
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5931
abstract: Intrinsic symmetry of the existing protocols of quantum dialogue are explored. It is shown that if we have a set of mutually orthogonal $n$-qubit states {\normalsize $\{|\phi_{0}>,|\phi_{1}>,....,|\phi_{i}<,...,|\phi_{2^{n}-1}>\}$ and a set of $m-qubit$ ($m\leq n$) unitary operators $\{U_{0},U_{2},...,U_{2^{n}-1}\}:U_{i}|\phi_{0}>=|\phi_{i}>$ and $\{U_{0},U_{2},...,U_{2^{n}-1}\}$ forms a group under multiplication then it would be sufficient to construct a quantum dialogue protocol using this set of quantum states and this group of unitary operators}. The sufficiency condition is used to provide a generalized protocol of quantum dialogue. Further the basic concepts of group theory and quantum mechanics are used here to systematically generate several examples of possible groups of unitary operators that may be used for implementation of quantum dialogue. A large number of examples of quantum states that may be used to implement the generalized quantum dialogue protocol using these groups of unitary operators are also obtained. For example, it is shown that GHZ state, GHZ-like state, W state, 4 and 5 qubit Cluster states, Omega state, Brown state, $Q_{4}$ state and $Q_{5}$ state can be used for implementation of quantum dialogue protocol. The security and efficiency of the proposed protocol is appropriately analyzed. It is also shown that if a group of unitary operators and a set of mutually orthogonal states are found to be suitable for quantum dialogue then they can be used to provide solutions of socialist millionaire problem.

id: 1203.5934
title: Generation of entangled light via dynamical Casimir effect
authors: Ariel Guerreiro, Paulo Alcino
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5934
abstract: This paper addresses the excitation of vacuum fluctuations of the electromagnetic field through periodic modulations of a refractive index and the possibility of using entanglement as a distinctive marker of the quantum nature of the phenomenon. It introduces a lossy environment and analyses its implications on the possibility of generating such an effect and measuring entanglement, concluding that it is not entirely destructive when the produced particles share the same environment.

id: 1203.5962
title: Implementation of multi-walker quantum walks with cavity grid
authors: Peng Xue
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience 10, 1 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5962
abstract: We show how multi-walker quantum walks can be implemented in a quantum quincunx created via cavity quantum electrodynamics. The implementation of a quantum walk with a multi-walker opens up the interesting possibility to introduce entanglement and more advanced walks. With different coin tosses and initial states the multi-walker quantum walk shows different probability distributions which deviate strongly from the classical random walks with quadratic enhanced spreadings and localization effects. By introducing decoherence, the transition from quantum walks to the classical versions is observed. We introduce the average fidelity decay as a signature to investigate the decoherence-induced irreversibility of quantum walks.

id: 1203.5994
title: Quantum thermometry using the ac Stark shift within the Rabi model
authors: Kieran D. B. Higgins, Brendon W. Lovett, Erik M. Gauger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 155409 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5994
abstract: A quantum two level system coupled to a harmonic oscillator represents a ubiquitous physical system. New experiments in circuit QED and nano-electromechanical systems (NEMS) achieve unprecedented coupling strength at large detuning between qubit and oscillator, thus requiring a theoretical treatment beyond the Jaynes Cummings model. Here we present a new method for describing the qubit dynamics in this regime, based on an oscillator correlation function expansion of a non-Markovian master equation in the polaron frame. Our technique yields a new numerical method as well as a succinct approximate expression for the qubit dynamics. We obtain a new expression for the ac Stark shift and show that this enables practical and precise qubit thermometry of an oscillator.

id: 1203.6016
title: Theory of frequency-filtered and time-resolved N-photon correlations
authors: Elena del Valle, Alejandro Gonzalez-Tudela, Fabrice P. Laussy, Carlos Tejedor, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 183601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6016
abstract: A theory of correlations between N photons of given frequencies and detected at given time delays is presented. These correlation functions are usually too cumbersome to be computed explicitly. We show that they are obtained exactly through intensity correlations between two-level sensors in the limit of their vanishing coupling to the system. This allows the computation of correlation functions hitherto unreachable. The uncertainties in time and frequency of the detection, which are necessary variables to describe the system, are intrinsic to the theory. We illustrate the formalism with the Jaynes--Cummings model, showing how correlations of various peaks at zero or finite time delays bring new insights into the dynamics of open quantum systems.

id: 1203.6039
title: Exact real-time dynamics of the quantum Rabi model
authors: F. Alexander Wolf, Marcus Kollar, Daniel Braak
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053817 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6039
abstract: We use the analytical solution of the quantum Rabi model to obtain absolutely convergent series expressions of the exact eigenstates and their scalar products with Fock states. This enables us to calculate the numerically exact time evolution of <\sigma_x(t)> and <\sigma_z(t)> for all regimes of the coupling strength, without truncation of the Hilbert space. We find a qualitatively different behavior of both observables which can be related to their representations in the invariant parity subspaces.

id: 1203.6040
title: Realizing a variable isotropic depolarizer
authors: A. Shaham, H. S. Eisenberg
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 37, Issue 13, pp. 2643-2645 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6040
abstract: We demonstrate an isotropic depolarizing channel with a controllable degree of depolarization. The depolarizer is composed of four birefringent crystals and half-wave plates. Quantum process tomography results of the depolarization effect on single photons agree well with the theoretical prediction. This depolarizer can be used to test quantum communication protocols with photons.

id: 1203.6128
title: Optimal control for non-Markovian open quantum systems
authors: Bin Hwang, Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: two-column, 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032321 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6128
abstract: An efficient optimal-control theory based on the Krotov method is introduced for a non-Markovian open quantum system with a time-nonlocal master equation in which the control parameter and the bath correlation function are correlated. This optimal-control method is developed via a quantum dissipation formulation that transforms the time-nonlocal master equation to a set of coupled linear time-local equations of motion in an extended auxiliary Liouville space. As an illustration, the optimal-control method is applied to find the control sequences for high-fidelity Z gates and identity gates of a qubit embedded in a non-Markovian bath. Z gates and identity gates with errors less than 10^{-5} for a wide range of bath decoherence parameters can be achieved for the non-Markovian open qubit system with control over only the {\sigma}z term. The control-dissipation correlation and the memory effect of the bath are crucial in achieving the high-fidelity gates.

id: 1203.6141
title: How the Unruh effect affects transition between classical and quantum decoherences
authors: Zehua Tian, Jiliang Jing
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physics letters B, 707 (2012) 264
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6141
abstract: We investigate how the Unruh effect affects the transition between classical and quantum decoherences for a general class of initial states and find that: $(i)$ The quantum decoherence exists while $\lambda t\leq\lambda \widetilde{t}$ (the transition time) and the classical one can also affect the system's evolution while $\lambda t\geq\lambda\widetilde{t}$ for both the bit and phase-bit flips, which are different from the cases in inertial frame; $(ii)$ The classical correlations will be different constants corresponding to different Unruh temperature and the quantum decoherence still dominates the evolution of system as $\lambda t\geq\lambda\widetilde{t}$ for the phase flip; And $(iii)$ as the Unruh temperature increases, the $\lambda\widetilde{t}$, compared with that in inertial frame, will be bigger for phase flip but smaller for bit flip. However, the $\lambda\widetilde{t}$ does not change no matter what the Unruh effect is for phase-bit flip.

id: 1203.6149
title: Quantum-correlating power of local quantum channels
authors: Xueyuan Hu, Heng Fan, D. L. Zhou, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 5pages, 2 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6149
abstract: Quantum correlation can be created by local operations from a classically correlated state. We define quantum-correlating power (QCP) of a local quantum channel as the maximum amount of quantum correlation that can be created by the channel. The quantum correlation that we discuss in this article is defined on the left part of the bipartite state. We prove that for any local channel, the optimal input state, which corresponds to the maximum quantum correlation in the output state, must be a classical-classical state. Further, the single-qubit channels with maximum QCP can be found in the class of rank-1 channels which take their optimal input states to rank-2 quantum-classical states. The analytic expression for QCP of single-qubit amplitude damping channel is obtained. Super-activation property of QCP, i.e., two zero-QCP channels can consist a positive-QCP channel, is discussed for single-qubit phase damping channels.

id: 1203.6204
title: Quantum computing approach to non-relativistic and relativistic molecular energy calculations
authors: Libor Veis, Ji?¨ª Pittner
comments: arXiv admin note: significant text overlap with arXiv:1008.3451
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6204
abstract: The article presents an introductory review of quantum algorithms for non-relativisitc as well as relativistic four component molecular energy calculations developed in past few years.

id: 1203.6242
title: A graphical approach to measurement-based quantum computing
authors: Ross Duncan
comments: To appear in "Compositional methods in Physics and Linguistics" OUP 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6242
abstract: Quantum computations are easily represented in the graphical notation known as the ZX-calculus, a.k.a. the red-green calculus. We demonstrate its use in reasoning about measurement-based quantum computing, where the graphical syntax directly captures the structure of the entangled states used to represent computations, and show that the notion of information flow within the entangled states gives rise to rewriting strategies for proving the correctness of quantum programs.

id: 1203.6256
title: Efficient Algorithm for Two-Center Coulomb and Exchange Integrals of Electronic Prolate Spheroidal Orbitals
authors: Christian B. Mendl
comments: 27 pages, 9 figures
journal: Journal of Computational Physics 231, pp. 5157 - 5175 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6256
abstract: We present a fast algorithm to calculate Coulomb/exchange integrals of prolate spheroidal electronic orbitals, which are the exact solutions of the single-electron, two-center Schr\"odinger equation for diatomic molecules. Our approach employs Neumann's expansion of the Coulomb repulsion 1/|x-y|, solves the resulting integrals symbolically in closed form and subsequently performs a numeric Taylor expansion for efficiency. Thanks to the general form of the integrals, the obtained coefficients are independent of the particular wavefunctions and can thus be reused later. Key features of our algorithm include complete avoidance of numeric integration, drafting of the individual steps as fast matrix operations and high accuracy due to the exponential convergence of the expansions. Application to the diatomic molecules O2 and CO exemplifies the developed methods, which can be relevant for a quantitative understanding of chemical bonds in general.

id: 1203.6260
title: Implementing quantum logic gates with GRAPE: principles and practicalities
authors: B. Rowland, J. A. Jones
comments: 15 pages rspublic including 4 figures. This is the original manuscript preprint form which differs slightly from the final accepted version (Phil Trans Roy Soc A in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6260
abstract: We briefly describe the use of GRAPE pulses to implement quantum logic gates in NMR quantum computers, and discuss a range of simple extensions to the core technique. We then consider a range of difficulties which can arise in practical implementations of GRAPE sequences, reflecting non-idealities in the experimental systems used.

id: 1203.6261
title: Mean excitation numbers due to anti-rotating term (MENDART) in cavity QED under Lindbladian dephasing
authors: A. V. Dodonov
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Scr. 86, 025405 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6261
abstract: We study the photon generation from arbitrary initial state in cavity QED due to the combined action of the anti-rotating term present in the Rabi Hamiltonian and Lindblad-type dephasing. We obtain a simple set of differential equations describing this process and deduce useful formulae for the moments of the photon number operator, demonstrating analytically that the average photon number increases linearly with time in the asymptotic limit.

id: 1203.6262
title: Geometry of the faces for separable states arising from generalized Choi maps
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: Open System & Information Dynamics, Volume 19, Issue 2, 125009 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6262
abstract: We exhibit examples of separable states which are on the boundary of the convex cone generated by all separable states but in the interior of the convex cone generated by all PPT states. We also analyze the geometric structures of the smallest face generated by those examples. As a byproduct, we obtain a large class of entangled states with positive partial transposes.

id: 1203.6305
title: Optimizing inhomogeneous spin ensembles for quantum memory
authors: Guy Bensky, David Petrosyan, Johannes Majer, J?rg Schmiedmayer, Gershon Kurizki
comments: Corrected ms
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012310 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6305
abstract: We propose a general method to maximize the fidelity of writing, storage and reading of quantum information (QI) in a spectrally inhomogeneous spin ensemble used as quantum memory. The method is based on preselecting the optimal spectral portion of the ensemble by a judiciously designed pulse. It allows drastic improvement of quantum memory realized by spin ensembles that store QI from a resonator or an optical beam.

id: 1203.6315
title: Three-photon energy-time entanglement
authors: Lynden K. Shalm, Deny R. Hamel, Zhizhong Yan, Christoph Simon, Kevin J. Resch, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6315
abstract: Entangled quantum particles have correlations stronger than those allowed by classical physics. These correlations are the focus of of the deepest issues in quantum mechanics [1-3] and are the basis of many quantum technologies. The entanglement of discrete particle properties has been studied extensively in the context of quantum computing [4], cryptography [5], and quantum repeaters [6] while entanglement between the continuous properties of particles may play a critical role in improving the sensitivity of gravitational wave detectors [7,8], atomic clocks [9], and other high precision instruments. The attributes of three or more entangled particles are fundamentally different from those of two entangled particles [10-14]. While the discrete variables of up to 14 ions [15] and the continuous variables between three intense optical beams [16, 17] have been entangled, it has remained an open challenge to entangle the continuous properties of more than two individual particles. Here we experimentally demonstrate genuine tripartite continuous-variable entanglement between three separated particles. In our setup the three particles are photons created directly from a single input photon; the creation process leads to quantum correlations between the colours, or energies, and emission times of the photons. The entanglement between our three photons is the three-party generalization of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) [1] correlations for continuous variables, and allows for new fundamental tests of quantum mechanics to be carried out. Our scheme can be extended to carry out multi-particle Franson interferometry [18,19], and opens the possibility of using additional degrees of freedom in our photons to simultaneously engineer discrete and continuous-variable hyper-entangled states that could serve as a valuable resource in a wide variety of quantum information tasks.

id: 1203.6349
title: A witness for coherent electronic oscillations in ultrafast spectroscopy
authors: Joel Yuen-Zhou, Jacob J. Krich, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, plus Supplementary Information. Work presented by the first author on March 1, 2012 at APS, Boston, Session W41, Focus Session on Quantum Coherence in Biological Systems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6349
abstract: We report a conceptually straightforward witness that isolates coherent electronic oscillations from their vibronic counterparts in nonlinear optical spectra of molecular aggregates: Coherent oscillations as a function of waiting time in broadband pump/broadband probe spectra correspond to coherent electronic oscillations. Oscillations in individual peaks of 2D electronic spectra do not necessarily yield this conclusion. Our witness is simpler to implement than quantum process tomography and potentially resolves a long-standing controversy on the character of oscillations in ultrafast spectra of photosynthetic light harvesting systems.

id: 1203.6365
title: Finite-difference time-domain technique as an efficient tool for obtaining the regularized Green function: applications to the local field problem in quantum optics for inhomogeneous lossy materials
authors: C. Van Vlack, S. Hughes
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6365
abstract: The calculation of the local density of states (LDOS) in lossy materials has long been disputed due to the divergence of the homogeneous Green function with equal space arguments. For arbitrary shaped lossy structures, such as those of interest in nanoplasmonics, this problem is particular challenging. A non-divergent LDOS obtained in numerical methods like the finite-difference time-domain (FDTD), at first sight, appears to be wrong. Here we show that FDTD is not only an ideal choice for obtaining the regularized LDOS, but it can address the local field problem for any lossy inhomogeneous material. We exemplify the case of a finite-size photon emitter embedded within and outside a lossy metal nanoparticle, and show excellent agreement with analytical results.

id: 1203.6392
title: Progress in compensating pulse sequences for quantum computation
authors: J. True Merrill, Kenneth R. Brown
comments: 50 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6392
abstract: The control of qubit states is often impeded by systematic control errors. Compensating pulse sequences have emerged as a resource efficient method for quantum error reduction. In this review, we discuss compensating composite pulse methods, and introduce a unifying control-theoretic framework using a dynamic interaction picture. This admits a novel geometric picture where sequences are interpreted as vector paths on the dynamical Lie algebra. Sequences for single-qubit and multi-qubit operations are described with this method.

id: 1203.6417
title: Complete experimental toolbox for alignment-free quantum communication
authors: Vincenzo D'Ambrosio, Eleonora Nagali, Stephen P. Walborn, Leandro Aolita, Sergei Slussarenko, Lorenzo Marrucci, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: Main manuscript: 7 pages, 3 figures; Supplementary Information: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Communications 3, 961 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6417
abstract: Quantum communication employs the counter-intuitive features of quantum physics to perform tasks that are im- possible in the classical world. It is crucial for testing the foundations of quantum theory and promises to rev- olutionize our information and communication technolo- gies. However, for two or more parties to execute even the simplest quantum transmission, they must establish, and maintain, a shared reference frame. This introduces a considerable overhead in communication resources, par- ticularly if the parties are in motion or rotating relative to each other. We experimentally demonstrate how to circumvent this problem with the efficient transmission of quantum information encoded in rotationally invariant states of single photons. By developing a complete toolbox for the efficient encoding and decoding of quantum infor- mation in such photonic qubits, we demonstrate the fea- sibility of alignment-free quantum key-distribution, and perform a proof-of-principle alignment-free entanglement distribution and violation of a Bell inequality. Our scheme should find applications in fundamental tests of quantum mechanics and satellite-based quantum communication.

id: 1203.6419
title: From blockade to transparency: controllable photon transmission through a circuit QED system
authors: Yu-xi Liu, Xun-Wei Xu, Adam Miranowicz, Franco Nori
comments: 7 papes, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043818 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6419
abstract: A strong photon-photon nonlinear interaction is a necessary condition for photon blockade. Moreover, this nonlinearity can also result a bistable behavior in the cavity field. We analyze the relation between detecting field and photon blockade in a superconducting circuit QED system, and show that photon blockade cannot occur when the detecting field is in the bistable regime. This photon blockade is the microwave-photonics analog of the Coulomb blockade. We further demonstrate that the photon transmission through such system can be controlled (from photon blockade to transparency) by the detecting field. Numerical calculations show that our proposal is experimentally realizable with current technology.

id: 1203.6469
title: Time Invariant Discord and Non-Markovianity
authors: Pinja Haikka, Tomi H. Johnson, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: Significant changes to the manuscript, including new results and the addition of a new author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6469
abstract: We study non-Markovianity and information flow for qubits experiencing local dephasing with an Ohmic class spectrum. We demonstrate the existence of a temperature-dependent critical value of the Ohmicity parameter s for the onset of non-Markovianity and give a physical interpretation of this phenomenon by linking it to the form of the reservoir spectrum. We demonstrate that this link holds also for more general spectra. We unveil a class of initial states for which discord is forever frozen at a positive value. We connect time invariant discord to non-Markovianity and propose a physical system in which it could be observed.

id: 1203.6489
title: Storage and Manipulation of Light Using a Raman Gradient Echo Process
authors: M. Hosseini, B. M. Sparkes, G. T. Campbell, P. K. Lam, B. C. Buchler
comments: 26 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6489
abstract: The Gradient Echo Memory (GEM) scheme has potential to be a suitable protocol for storage and retrieval of optical quantum information. In this paper, we review the properties of the $\Lambda$-GEM method that stores information in the ground states of three-level atomic ensembles via Raman coupling. The scheme is versatile in that it can store and re-sequence multiple pulses of light. To date, this scheme has been implemented using warm rubidium gas cells. There are different phenomena that can influence the performance of these atomic systems. We investigate the impact of atomic motion and four-wave mixing and present experiments that show how parasitic four-wave mixing can be mitigated. We also use the memory to demonstrate preservation of pulse shape and the backward retrieval of pulses.

id: 1203.6550
title: Variational calculations for the hydrogen-antihydrogen system with a mass-scaled Born-Oppenheimer potential
authors: Henrik Stegeby, Konrad Piszczatowski, Hans O Karlsson, Roland Lindh, Piotr Froelich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6550
abstract: The problem of proton-antiproton motion in the ${\rm H}$--${\rm \bar{H}}$ system is investigated by means of the variational method. We introduce a modified nuclear interaction through mass-scaling of the Born-Oppenheimer potential. This improved treatment of the interaction includes the nondivergent part of the otherwise divergent adiabatic correction and shows the correct threshold behavior. Using this potential we calculate the vibrational energy levels with angular momentum 0 and 1 and the corresponding nuclear wave functions, as well as the S-wave scattering length. We obtain a full set of all bound states together with a large number of discretized continuum states that might be utilized in variational four-body calculations. The results of our calculations gives an indication of resonance states in the hydrogen-antihydrogen system.

id: 1203.6555
title: Potential-controlled filtering in quantum star graphs
authors: Ond?ej Turek, Taksu Cheon
comments: 41 pages, 17 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. (NY) 330 (2013) 104-141
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6555
abstract: We study the scattering in a quantum star graph with a F\"ul\"op--Tsutsui coupling in its vertex and with external potentials on the lines. We find certain special couplings for which the probability of the transmission between two given lines of the graph is strongly influenced by the potential applied on another line. On the basis of this phenomenon we design a tunable quantum band-pass spectral filter. The transmission from the input to the output line is governed by a potential added on the controlling line. The strength of the potential directly determines the passband position, which allows to control the filter in a macroscopic manner. Generalization of this concept to quantum devices with multiple controlling lines proves possible. It enables the construction of spectral filters with more controllable parameters or with more operation modes. In particular, we design a band-pass filter with independently adjustable multiple passbands. We also address the problem of the physical realization of F\"ul\"op--Tsutsui couplings and demonstrate that the couplings needed for the construction of the proposed quantum devices can be approximated by simple graphs carrying only $\delta$ potentials.

id: 1203.6584
title: Certified quantum non-demolition measurement of material systems
authors: Morgan W. Mitchell, Marco Koschorreck, Marcin Kubasik, Mario Napolitano, Robert J. Sewell
comments: 11 pages, zero figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 085021 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6584
abstract: An extensive debate on quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement, reviewed in Grangier et al. [Nature, {\bf 396}, 537 (1998)], finds that true QND measurements must have both non-classical state-preparation capability and non-classical information-damage tradeoff. Existing figures of merit for these non-classicality criteria require direct measurement of the signal variable and are thus difficult to apply to optically-probed material systems. Here we describe a method to demonstrate both criteria without need for to direct signal measurements. Using a covariance matrix formalism and a general noise model, we compute meter observables for QND measurement triples, which suffice to compute all QND figures of merit. The result will allow certified QND measurement of atomic spin ensembles using existing techniques.

id: 1203.6587
title: Bell's Theorem: Two Neglected Solutions
authors: Louis Vervoort
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6587
abstract: Bell's theorem admits several interpretations or 'solutions', the standard interpretation being 'indeterminism', a next one 'nonlocality'. In this article two further solutions are investigated, termed here 'superdeterminism' and 'supercorrelation'. The former is especially interesting for philosophical reasons, if only because it is always rejected on the basis of extra-physical arguments. The latter, supercorrelation, will be studied here by investigating model systems that can mimic it, namely spin lattices. It is shown that in these systems the Bell inequality can be violated, even if they are local according to usual definitions. Violation of the Bell inequality is retraced to violation of 'measurement independence'. These results emphasize the importance of studying the premises of the Bell inequality in realistic systems.

id: 1203.6588
title: Permanently rotating devices: extracting rotation from quantum vacuum fluctuations?
authors: M.N. Chernodub
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures; comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6588
abstract: We propose a set of devices of simple geometrical design which may exhibit a permanent rotation due to quantum (vacuum) fluctuations. These objects - which have no moving parts - impose certain boundary conditions on quantum fluctuations thus affecting their vacuum energy similarly to the standard Casimir effect. The boundary conditions are chosen in such a way that the vacuum energy for a static device is larger compared to the energy of the vacuum fluctuations in a state when the device rotates about a certain axis. The optimal frequency of rotation is determined by geometry and moment of inertia of the device. We illustrate our ideas in a vacuum of a massless scalar field theory using simplest Dirichlet-type boundary conditions. We also propose an experimental setup to verify the existence of the rotational vacuum effect.

id: 1203.6595
title: Engineered Open Systems and Quantum Simulations with Atoms and Ions
authors: M. M¨¹ller, S. Diehl, G. Pupillo, P. Zoller
comments: 79 pages, 23 figures, review article submitted to Advances in Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics. Abstract shortened
journal: Advances in Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics 61, 1-80 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6595
abstract: The enormous experimental progress in atomic, molecular and optical (AMO) physics during the last decades allows us nowadays to isolate single, a few or even many-body ensembles of microscopic particles, and to manipulate their quantum properties at a level of precision, which still seemed unthinkable some years ago. This versatile set of tools has enabled the development of the well-established concept of engineering of many-body Hamiltonians in various physical platforms. These available tools, however, can also be harnessed to extend the scenario of Hamiltonian engineering to a more general Liouvillian setting, which in addition to coherent dynamics also includes controlled dissipation in many-body quantum systems. Here, we review recent theoretical and experimental progress in different directions along these lines, with a particular focus on physical realizations with systems of atoms and ions. This comprises digital quantum simulations in a general open system setting, as well as engineering and understanding new classes of systems far away from thermodynamic equilibrium.

id: 1203.6670
title: Energy levels and extension of the Schrodinger operator
authors: Y.C. Cantelaube
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6670
abstract: Although energy levels are often given by solutions of the radial equation such that u(0) is non zero, and hence by first-order singular functions which are not eigenfunctions of H, the latter is always considered as the only operator that gives energy levels. Vibrational levels of diatomic molecules are a usual example. We show that the operator which has singular eigenfunctions, or pseudofunctions, that give energy levels, is the operator whose action on pseudofunctions amounts to the embedding in the distributions of R3 of their Hamiltonian in R3/{0}. When its eigenfunctions are regular, this operator amounts to H. Energy levels, which are given by eigenfunctions of H when u(0) is zero, are thus given in any case by eigenfunctions of this operator, which is an extension of the Schrodinger operator, but not of the Hamiltonian.

id: 1203.6674
title: Path integral Monte Carlo with importance sampling for excitons interacting with an arbitrary phonon bath
authors: Sangwoo Shim, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6674
abstract: The reduced density matrix of excitons coupled to a phonon bath at a finite temperature is studied using the path integral Monte Carlo method. Appropriate choices of estimators and importance sampling schemes are crucial to the performance of the Monte Carlo simulation. We show that by choosing the population-normalized estimator for the reduced density matrix, an efficient and physically-meaningful sampling function can be obtained. In addition, the nonadiabatic phonon probability density is obtained as a byproduct during the sampling procedure. For importance sampling, we adopted the Metropolis-adjusted Langevin algorithm. The analytic expression for the gradient of the target probability density function associated with the population-normalized estimator cannot be obtained in closed form without a matrix power series. An approximated gradient that can be efficiently calculated is explored to achieve better computational scaling and efficiency. Application to a simple one-dimensional model system from the previous literature confirms the correctness of the method developed in this manuscript. The displaced harmonic model system within the single exciton manifold shows the numerically exact temperature dependence of the coherence and population of the excitonic system. The sampling scheme can be applied to an arbitrary anharmonic environment, such as multichromophoric systems embedded in the protein complex. The result of this study is expected to stimulate further development of real time propagation methods that satisfy the detailed balance condition for exciton populations.

id: 1203.6683
title: Dynamical control of matter wave splitting using time-dependent optical lattices
authors: Sung Jong Park, Henrik Kjaer Andersen, Sune Mai, Jan Arlt, Jacob F. Sherson
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 033626 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6683
abstract: We report on measurements of splitting Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) by using a time-dependent optical lattice potential. First, we demonstrate the division of a BEC into a set of equally populated components by means of time dependent control of Landau-Zener tunneling in a vertical lattice potential. Next, we apply time dependent optical Bragg mirrors to a BEC oscillating in a harmonic trap. We demonstrate high-order Bragg reflection of the condensate due to multi-photon Raman transitions, where the depth of the optical lattice potential allows for a choice of the order of the transition. Finally, a combination of multiple Bragg reflections and Landau-Zener tunneling allows for the generation of macroscopic arrays of condensates with potential applications in atom optics and atom interferometry.

id: 1203.6692
title: Experimentally Violating Bell Inequalities Without Complete Reference Frames
authors: Matthew S. Palsson, Joel J. Wallman, Adam J. Bennet, G. J. Pryde
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032322 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6692
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate, using qubits encoded in photon polarization, that if two parties share a single reference direction and use locally orthogonal measurements they will always violate a Bell inequality, up to experimental deficiencies. This contrasts with the standard view of Bell inequalities in which the parties need to share a complete reference frame for their measurements. Furthermore, we experimentally demonstrate that as the reference direction degrades the probability of violating a Bell inequality decreases smoothly to (39.7 +/- 0.1) % in the limiting case that the observers do not share a reference direction. This result promises simplified distribution of entanglement between separated parties, with applications in fundamental investigations of quantum physics and tasks such as quantum communication.

id: 1203.6737
title: A controlled-NOT gate in a chain of qubits embedded in a spin field-effect transistor and its process tomography
authors: Makoto Unoki, Hiromichi Nakazato, Kazuya Yuasa, Kanji Yoh
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6737
abstract: We have investigated the realizability of the controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate and characterized the gate operation by quantum process tomography for a chain of qubits, realized by electrons confined in self-assembled quantum dots embedded in the spin field-effect transistor. We have shown that the CNOT gate operation and its process tomography are performable by using the spin exchange interaction and several local qubit rotations within the coherence time of qubits. Moreover it is shown that when the fluctuation of operation time and the imperfection of polarization of channel electrons are considered as sources of decay of fidelity, the process fidelity of CNOT decreases at most 5% by the fluctuation of the operation time and its values of 0.49 and 0.72 are obtained for polarizations of the channel spin 0.6 and 0.8, respectively.

id: 1203.6755
title: Critical behavior in ultra-strong-coupled oscillators
authors: Vivishek Sudhir, Marco G. Genoni, Jinhyoung Lee, M. S. Kim
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012316 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6755
abstract: We investigate the strong coupling regime of a linear $x$-$x$ coupled harmonic oscillator system, by performing a direct diagonalization of the hamiltonian. It is shown that the $x$-$x$ coupled hamiltonian can be equivalently described by a Mach-Zehnder-type interferometer with a quadratic unitary operation in each of its arms. We show a sharp transition of the unitary operation from an elliptical phase rotator to an elliptical squeezer as the coupling gets stronger, which leads to the continuous generation of entanglement, even for a significantly thermal state, in the ultra-strong coupled regime. It is also shown that this critical regime cannot be achieved by a classical Hookian coupling. Finally, the effect of a finite-temperature environment is analyzed, showing that entanglement can still be generated from a thermal state in the ultra-strong coupled regime, but is destroyed rapidly.

id: 1203.6764
title: Generating non-Gaussian states using collisions between Rydberg polaritons
authors: Jovica Stanojevic, Valentina Parigi, Erwan Bimbard, Alexei Ourjoumtsev, Pierre Pillet, Philippe Grangier
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 021403(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6764
abstract: We investigate theoretically the deterministic generation of quantum states with negative Wigner functions, by using giant non-linearities due to collisional interactions between Rydberg polaritons. The state resulting from the polariton interactions may be transferred with high fidelity into a photonic state, which can be analyzed using homodyne detection followed by quantum tomography. Besides generating highly non-classical states of the light, this method can also provide a very sensitive probe for the physics of the collisions involving Rydberg states.

id: 1203.6769
title: Approximate spin and pseudospin solutions of the Dirac equation for the inversely quadratic Yukawa potential and tensor interaction
authors: Majid Hamzavi, Sameer M. Ikhdair, B. I. Ita
comments: 18 pages
journal: Physica Scripta 85 (2012) 045009 (7pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6769
abstract: We approximately solve the Dirac equation for the inversely quadratic Yukawa (IQY) potential including a Coulomb-like tensor potential with arbitrary spin-orbit coupling quantum number . In the framework of the spin and pseudospin (pspin) symmetry, we obtain the energy eigenvalue equation and the corresponding eigenfunctions in closed form by using the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. The numerical results show that the Coulomb-like tensor interaction removes degeneracies between spin and pspin state doublets.

id: 1203.6774
title: Kullback-Leibler quantum divergence as an indicator of quantum chaos
authors: A. Kowalewska-Kud?aszyk, J. K. Kalaga, W. Leo¨½ski, V. Cao Long
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 376 (2012) 1280-1286
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6774
abstract: We discuss a system of a nonlinear Kerr-like oscillator externally pumped by ultra-short, external, coherent pulses. For such a system, we analyse the application of the Kullback-Leibler quantum divergence $K[\rho||\sigma]$ to the detection of quantum chaotic behaviour. Defining linear and nonlinear quantum divergences, and calculating their power spectra, we show that these parameters are more suitable indicators of quantum chaos than the fidelity commonly discussed in the literature, and are useful for dealing with short time series. Moreover, the nonlinear divergence is more sensitive to chaotic bands and to boundaries of chaotic regions, compared to its linear counterpart.

id: 1203.6887
title: On the Impossibility to Extend Triples of Mutually Unbiased Product Bases in Dimension Six
authors: Daniel McNulty, Stefan Weigert
comments: 12 pages, identical to published version
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 10, 1250056 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6887
abstract: An analytic proof is given which shows that it is impossible to extend any triple of mutually unbiased (MU) product bases in dimension six by a single MU vector. Furthermore, the 16 states obtained by removing two orthogonal states from any MU product triple cannot figure in a (hypothetical) complete set of seven MU bases. These results follow from exploiting the structure of MU product bases in a novel fashion, and they are among the strongest ones obtained for MU bases in dimension six without recourse to computer algebra.

id: 1203.0010
title: Non-adiabatic preparation of spin crystals with ultracold polar molecules
authors: Mikhail Lemeshko, Roman V. Krems, Hendrik Weimer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 035301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0010
abstract: We study the growth dynamics of ordered structures of strongly interacting polar molecules in optical lattices. Using dipole blockade of microwave excitations, we map the system onto an interacting spin-1/2 model possessing ground states with crystalline order, and describe a way to prepare these states by non-adiabatically driving the transitions between molecular rotational levels. The proposed technique bypasses the need to cross a phase transition and allows for the creation of ordered domains of considerably larger size compared to approaches relying on adiabatic preparation.

id: 1203.0022
title: Quantum Degenerate Systems
authors: Fiorenza de Micheli, Jorge Zanelli
comments: 18 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0022
abstract: Degenerate dynamical systems are characterized by symplectic structures whose rank is not constant throughout phase space. Their phase spaces are divided into causally disconnected, nonoverlapping regions such that there are no classical orbits connecting two different regions. Here the question of whether this classical disconnectedness survives quantization is addressed. Our conclusion is that in irreducible degenerate systems --in which the degeneracy cannot be eliminated by redefining variables in the action--, the disconnectedness is maintained in the quantum theory: there is no quantum tunnelling across degeneracy surfaces. This shows that the degeneracy surfaces are boundaries separating distinct physical systems, not only classically, but in the quantum realm as well. The relevance of this feature for gravitation and Chern-Simons theories in higher dimensions cannot be overstated.

id: 1203.0046
title: Time-Optimal Frictionless Atom Cooling in Harmonic Traps
authors: Dionisis Stefanatos, Heinz Schaettler, Jr-Shin Li
comments: Submitted to 51st IEEE Conference on Decision and Control as a SIAM regular paper, it is a shorter version of our recently published article in SIAM J. Control Optim., vol. 49, pp. 2440-2462, 2011. It contains an elegant proof of the main technical point using the symmetries of the system, and a discussion of the implications of the results on finite time thermodynamic processes
journal: SIAM J. Control Optim., vol. 49, pp. 2440-2462, 2011
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0046
abstract: Frictionless atom cooling in harmonic traps is formulated as a time-optimal control problem and a synthesis of optimal controlled trajectories is obtained. This work has already been used to determine the minimum time for transition between two thermal states and to show the emergence of the third law of classical thermodynamics from quantum thermodynamics. It can also find application in the fast adiabatic-like expansion of Bose-Einstein condensates, with possible applications in atom interferometry. This paper is based on our recently published article in SIAM J. Control Optim.

id: 1203.0052
title: Excitation energy transfer in light-harvesting system: Effect of initial state
authors: B. Cui, X. X. Yi, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, J Phys B accepted
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0052
abstract: The light-harvesting is a problem of long interest. It becomes active again in recent years stimulated by suggestions of quantum effects in energy transport. Recent experiments found evidence that BChla 1 and BChla 6 are the first to be excited in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson(FMO) protein, theoretical studies, however, are mostly restricted to consider the exciton in BChla 1 initially. In this paper, we study the energy transport in the FMO complex by taking different initial states into account. Optimizations are performed for the decoherence rates as to maximal transport efficiency. Dependence of the energy transfer efficiency on the initial states is given and discussed. Effects of fluctuations in the site energies and couplings are also examined.

id: 1203.0065
title: Afterpulsing and Instability in Superconducting Nanowire Avalanche Photodetectors
authors: F. Marsili, F. Najafi, E. Dauler, R. J. Molnar, K. K. Berggren
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0065
abstract: We investigated the reset time of superconducting nanowire avalanche photodetectors (SNAPs) based on 30 nm wide nanowires. We studied the dependence of the reset time of SNAPs on the device inductance and discovered that SNAPs can provide a speed-up relative to SNSPDs with the same area, but with some limitations: (1) reducing the series inductance of SNAPs (necessary for the avalanche formation) could result in the detectors operating in an unstable regime; (2) a trade-off exists between maximizing the bias current margin and minimizing the reset time of SNAPs; and (3) reducing the reset time of SNAPs below ~ 1 ns resulted in afterpulsing.

id: 1203.0126
title: Stabilization of collapse and revival dynamics by a non-Markovian phonon bath
authors: Alexander Carmele, Andreas Knorr, Frank Milde
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 105024 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0126
abstract: Semiconductor quantum dots (QDs) have been demonstrated to be versatile candidates to study the fundamentals of light-matter interaction [1-3]. In contrast with atom optics, dissipative processes are induced by the inherent coupling to the environment and are typically perceived as a major obstacle towards stable performances in experiments and applications [4]. In this paper we show that this is not necessarily the case. In fact, the memory of the environment can enhance coherent quantum optical effects. In particular, we demonstrate that the non-Markovian coupling to an incoherent phonon bath has a stabilizing effect on the coherent QD cavity-quantum electrodynamics (cQED) by inhibiting irregular oscillations and boosting regular collapse and revival patterns. For low photon numbers we predict QD dynamics that deviate dramatically from the well-known atomic Jaynes-Cummings model. Our proposal opens the way to a systematic and deliberate design of photon quantum effects via specifically engineered solid-state environments.

id: 1203.0147
title: Quantum effects in biology: master equation studies of exciton motion in photosynthetic systems
authors: Navinder Singh
comments: 32 pages; invited article for multi-author theme issue: "Photosynthesis: Quantum Coherence and Entanglement" (Open Academic Press)
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0147
abstract: The present review is devoted to our recent studies on the excitonic motion in photosynthetic systems. In photosynthesis, the light photon is absorbed to create an exciton in the antenna complex of the photosynthetic pigments. This exciton then migrates along the chain-biomolecules, like FMO complex, to the reaction centre where it initiates the chemical reactions leading to biomass generation. Recently, it has been experimentally observed that the exciton motion is highly quantum mechanical in nature i.e., it involve long time ($\sim 600$ femto sec) quantum coherence effects. Traditional semiclassical theories like Forrester's and second Born master equations cannot be applied. We point out why the 2nd Born non-Markovian master equation and its Markovian limit (also called the Redfield master equation) cannot be used to explain the observed long coherences. Briefly, the reason is that these approaches are perturbative in nature and in real light harvesting systems various couplings (system-system and system-bath) are of the similar order of magnitude. Various new approaches are being developed to go beyond the above two limiting theories. The present review is not a review in the usual sense of the word as we summarize our own approaches and only refer to the literature for the other ones. A brief introduction to the sophisticated 2D photon echo spectroscopy is also given at the end with an emphasis on the underlying physics of the multidimensional echo spectroscopies.

id: 1203.0179
title: Realism and Objectivism in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Vassilios Karakostas
comments: 20 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0811.3696, arXiv:quant-ph/0502099, arXiv:0904.2702, arXiv:0904.2859, arXiv:0905.0139
journal: Journal for General Philosophy of Science 2012, Vol. 43, Issue 1
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0179
abstract: The present study attempts to provide a consistent and coherent account of what the world could be like, given the conceptual framework and results of contemporary quantum theory. It is suggested that standard quantum mechanics can, and indeed should, be understood as a realist theory within its domain of application. It is pointed out, however, that a viable realist interpretation of quantum theory requires the abandonment or radical revision of the classical conception of physical reality and its traditional philosophical presuppositions. It is argued, in this direction, that the conceptualization of the nature of reality, as arising out of our most basic physical theory, calls for a kind of contextual realism. Within the domain of quantum mechanics, knowledge of 'reality in itself', 'the real such as it truly is' independent of the way it is contextualized, is impossible in principle. In this connection, the meaning of objectivity in quantum mechanics is analyzed, whilst the important question concerning the nature of quantum objects is explored.

id: 1203.0202
title: Pictures of Processes: Automated Graph Rewriting for Monoidal Categories and Applications to Quantum Computing
authors: Aleks Kissinger
comments: PhD Thesis. Passed examination. Minor corrections made and one theorem added at the end of Chapter 5. 182 pages, ~300 figures. See full text for unabridged abstract
journal: 
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0202
abstract: This work is about diagrammatic languages, how they can be represented, and what they in turn can be used to represent. More specifically, it focuses on representations and applications of string diagrams. String diagrams are used to represent a collection of processes, depicted as "boxes" with multiple (typed) inputs and outputs, depicted as "wires". If we allow plugging input and output wires together, we can intuitively represent complex compositions of processes, formalised as morphisms in a monoidal category. [...] The first major contribution of this dissertation is the introduction of a discretised version of a string diagram called a string graph. String graphs form a partial adhesive category, so they can be manipulated using double-pushout graph rewriting. Furthermore, we show how string graphs modulo a rewrite system can be used to construct free symmetric traced and compact closed categories on a monoidal signature. The second contribution is in the application of graphical languages to quantum information theory. We use a mixture of diagrammatic and algebraic techniques to prove a new classification result for strongly complementary observables. [...] We also introduce a graphical language for multipartite entanglement and illustrate a simple graphical axiom that distinguishes the two maximally-entangled tripartite qubit states: GHZ and W. [...] The third contribution is a description of two software tools developed in part by the author to implement much of the theoretical content described here. The first tool is Quantomatic, a desktop application for building string graphs and graphical theories, as well as performing automated graph rewriting visually. The second is QuantoCoSy, which performs fully automated, model-driven theory creation using a procedure called conjecture synthesis.

id: 1203.0374
title: Implementation of three-qubit Toffoli gate in a single step
authors: Ai Min Chen, Sam Young Cho, Mun Dae Kim
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, to appear in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 85, 032326 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0374
abstract: Single-step implementations of multi-qubit gates are generally believed to provide a simpler design, a faster operation, and a lower decoherence. For coupled three qubits interacting with a photon field, a realizable scheme for a single-step Toffoli gate is investigated. We find that the three qubit system can be described by four effective modified Jaynes-Cummings models in the states of two control qubits. Within the rotating wave approximation, the modified Jaynes-Cummings models are shown to be reduced to the conventional Jaynes-Cummings models with renormalized couplings between qubits and photon fields. A single-step Toffoli gate is shown to be realizable with tuning the four characteristic oscillation periods that satisfy a commensurate condition. Possible values of system parameters are estimated for single-step Toffli gate. From numerical calculation, further, our single-step Toffoli gate operation errors are discussed due to imperfections in system parameters, which shows that a Toffoli gate with high fidelity can be obtained by adjusting pairs of the photon-qubit and the qubit-qubit coupling strengthes. In addition, a decoherence effect on the Toffoli gate operation is discussed due to a thermal reservoir.

id: 1203.0412
title: Extended Tensor Products and Generalization of the Notion of Entanglement
authors: Andrei Khrennikov, Elemer E. Rosinger
comments: Proceedings of AIP, conference Foundations of Probability and Physics 6, Vaxjo, Sweden, June 2011, volume 1424
journal: FOUNDATIONS OF PROBABILITY AND PHYSICS - 6, AIP Conf. Proc., 1424 (2012)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0412
abstract: Motivated by the novel applications of the mathematical formalism of quantum theory and its generalizations in cognitive science, psychology, social and political sciences, and economics, we extend the notion of the tensor product and entanglement. We also study the relation between conventional entanglement of complex qubits and our generalized entanglement. Our construction can also be used to describe entanglement in the framework of non-Archimedean physics. It is also possible to construct tensor products of non-Archimedean (e.g., $p$-adic) and complex Hilbert spaces.

id: 1203.0551
title: Solutions of the Schr?dinger equation, boundary condition at the origin, and theory of distributions
authors: Y.C. Cantelaube
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0551
abstract: In a central potential the usual resolution of the Schr\"odinger equation in spherical coordinates consists in determining the solutions R(r) or u(r) of the radial equations considered as the radial parts of the Schr\"odinger equation. However, the solutions must be supplemented with the boundary condition u(0) = 0 in order to rule out singular solutions. There is still no consensus to justify this condition, with good reason. It is based on a misunderstanding that comes from the fact that the radial equation in terms of R(r) is derived from the Schr\"odinger equation, and the radial equation in terms of u(r) from the former, by taking the Laplacians in the sense of the functions. By taking these Laplacians in the sense of the distributions, as it is required, we show that the radial equations are derived from the Schrodinger equation when their solutions are regular, but not when they are singular, so that the equations need not be supplemented with any supplementary condition such as u(0) = 0.

id: 1203.0552
title: REVIEW. Quantum optics with ultracold quantum gases: towards the full quantum regime of the light-matter interaction
authors: Igor B. Mekhov, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 22 pages
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 102001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0552
abstract: Although the study of ultracold quantum gases trapped by light is a prominent direction of modern research, the quantum properties of light were widely neglected in this field. Quantum optics with quantum gases closes this gap and addresses phenomena, where the quantum statistical nature of both light and ultracold matter play equally important roles. First, light can serve as a quantum nondemolition (QND) probe of the quantum dynamics of various ultracold particles from ultracold atomic and molecular gases to nanoparticles and nanomechanical systems. Second, due to dynamic light-matter entanglement, projective measurement-based preparation of the many-body states is possible, where the class of emerging atomic states can be designed via optical geometry. Light scattering constitutes such a quantum measurement with controllable measurement back-action. As in cavity-based spin squeezing, atom number squeezed and Schroedinger cat states can be prepared. Third, trapping atoms inside an optical cavity one creates optical potentials and forces, which are not prescribed but quantized and dynamical variables themselves. Ultimately, cavity QED with quantum gases requires a self-consistent solution for light and particles, which enriches the picture of quantum many-body states of atoms trapped in quantum potentials. This will allow quantum simulations of phenomena related to the physics of phonons, polarons, polaritons and other quantum quasiparticles.

id: 1203.0618
title: Controlling spontaneous emission of a two-level atom by hyperbolic metamaterials
authors: Zheng Liu, Wei Li, Xunya Jiang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0618
abstract: Within the frame of quantum optics we analyze the properties of spontaneous emission of two-level atom in media with indefinite permittivity tensor where the geometry of the dispersion relation is characterized by an ellipsoid or a hyperboloid(hyperbolic medium). The decay rate is explicitly given with the orientation of the dipole transition matrix element taken into account. It indicates that for the ellipsoid case the intensity of the photons coupled into different modes can be tuned by changing the direction of the matrix element and for the hyperboloid case it is found that spontaneous emission in hyperbolic medium can be dramatically enhanced compared to the dielectric background. Moreover, spontaneous emission exhibit the strong directivity and get the maximum in the asymptote direction.

id: 1203.0623
title: Interatomic collisions in two-dimensional and quasi-two-dimensional confinements with spin-orbit coupling
authors: Peng Zhang, Long Zhang, Wei Zhang
comments: 13pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042707 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0623
abstract: We investigate the low-energy scattering and bound states of two two-component fermionic atoms in pure two-dimensional (2D) and quasi-2D confinements with Rashba spin-orbit coupling (SOC). We find that the SOC qualitatively changes the behavior of the 2D scattering amplitude in the low-energy limit. For quasi-2D systems we obtain the analytic expression for the effective-2D scattering amplitude and the algebraic equations for the two-atom bound state energy. Based on these results, we further derive the effective 2D interaction potential between two ultracold atoms in the quasi-2D confinement with Rashba SOC. These results are crucial for the control of the 2D effective physics in quasi-2D geometry via the confinement intensity and the atomic three-dimensional scattering length.

id: 1203.0649
title: Generalized oscillator strength of endohedral molecules
authors: M. Ya. Amusia, L. V. Chernysheva, E. Z. Liverts
comments: 30 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0649
abstract: We investigate here the fast electron scattering upon endohedral atoms that present a fullerene CN staffed by an atom A, A@CN. We calculate the inelastic scattering cross-section expressing it via generalized oscillator strengths (GOS) density. We take into account two major effects of CN upon ionization of the atom A. Namely, the scattering of the electron by the static potential of the fullerenes shell and modification of the interaction between the fast incoming and atomic electrons due to polarization of the fullerenes shell by the incoming electron beam. To obtain the main features of the effect, we substitute the complex fullerenes shell CN by a static zero thickness potential, express its deformation under incoming electron action via CN polarizabilities. We perform all consideration in the frame of the so-called random phase approximation with exchange (RPAE) that gave reliable results for GOSes of isolated atoms, and expressions for absolute and differential in angle cross-sections. We limit ourselves with dipole and biggest non-dipole contributions to the differential in angle cross-section. We compare fast electron scattering with photoionization as a source of information on the target electronic structure and emphasize some advantages of fast electron scattering. As concrete objects of calculations, we choose noble gas endohedrals Ar@C60 and Xe@C60. The results are presented for two transferred momentum q values: q=0.1 and 1.0. Even for small q=0.1, in the so-called optical limit, the deviation from photoionization case is prominent and instructive. As an interesting and very specific object, we study onion-type endohedrals A@CN1@CN2, in which the all construction A@CN1 is stuffed inside CN2 with N2 >> N1.

id: 1203.0687
title: Magnetic States at Short Distances
authors: Horace W. Crater, Cheuk-Yin Wong
comments: 42 pages, 4 figures, to be published in Physical Review D. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1112.2287
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85, 116005 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0687
abstract: The magnetic interactions between a fermion and an antifermion of opposite electric or color charges in the 1S0 and 3P0 states are very attractive and singular near the origin and may allow the formation of new bound and resonance states at short distances. In the two body Dirac equations formulated in constraint dynamics, the short-distance attraction for these states for point particles leads to a quasipotential that behaves near the origin as -\alpha^2/r^2. Both 1S0 and 3P0 states admit two types of eigenstates with drastically different behaviors for the radial wave function u=r\psi. One type of states, with u growing as r^{1+\sqrt(1-4*\alpha^2)/2} at small r, will be called usual states. The other type of states with u growing as r^{(1-\sqrt(1-4*\alpha^2))/2} will be called peculiar states. Both of the usual and peculiar eigenstates have admissible behaviors at short distances. The usual bound 1S0 states possess attributes the same as those one usually encounters in QED and QCD. In contrast, the peculiar bound 1S0 states, yet to be observed, have distinctly different bound state properties and scattering phase shifts. For the 3P0 states, the usual solutions lead to the standard bound state energies and no resonance, but resonances have been found for the peculiar states whose energies depend on the description of the internal structure of the charges, the mass of the constituent, and the coupling constant. The existence of both usual and peculiar eigenstates in the same system leads to the non-self-adjoint property of the mass operator and two non-orthogonal complete sets. The mass operator can be made self-adjoint with a single complete set of admissible states by introducing a new peculiarity quantum number and an enlarged Hilbert space.

id: 1203.0717
title: Phase extraction in disordered isospectral shapes
authors: Mugurel ?olea, Bogdan Ostahie, Marian Ni??, Felicia ?olea, Alexandru Aldea
comments: Accepted for Phys.Rev. E
journal: Physical Review E 85, 036604 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0717
abstract: The phase of the electronic wave function is not directly measurable but, quite remarkably, it becomes accessible in pairs of isospectral shapes, as recently proposed in the experiment of Christopher R. Moon {\it et al.}, Science {\bf 319}, 782 (2008). The method is based on a special property, called transplantation, which relates the eigenfunctions of the isospectral pairs, and allows to extract the phase distributions, if the amplitude distributions are known. We numerically simulate such a phase extraction procedure in the presence of disorder, which is introduced both as Anderson disorder and as roughness at edges. With disorder, the transplantation can no longer lead to a perfect fit of the wave functions, however we show that a phase can still be extracted - defined as the phase that minimizes the misfit. Interestingly, this extracted phase coincides with (or differs negligibly from) the phase of the disorder-free system, up to a certain disorder amplitude, and a misfit of the wave functions as high as $\sim 5%$, proving a robustness of the phase extraction method against disorder. However, if the disorder is increased further, the extracted phase shows a puzzle structure, no longer correlated with the phase of the disorder-free system. A discrete model is used, which is the natural approach for disorder analysis. We provide a proof that discretization preserves isospectrality and the transplantation can be adapted to the discrete systems.

id: 1203.0735
title: Study of Loschmidt Echo for a qubit coupled to an XY-spin chain environment
authors: Shraddha Sharma, Victor Mukherjee, Amit Dutta
comments: Accepted for publication in EPJB
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0735
abstract: We study the temporal evolution of a central spin-1/2 (qubit) coupled to the environment which is chosen to be a spin-1/2 transverse XY spin chain. We explore the entire phase diagram of the spin-Hamiltonian and investigate the behavior of Loschmidt echo(LE) close to critical and multicritical point(MCP). To achieve this, the qubit is coupled to the spin chain through the anisotropy term as well as one of the interaction terms. Our study reveals that the echo has a faster decay with the system size (in the short time limit) close to a MCP and also the scaling obeyed by the quasiperiod of the collapse and revival of the LE is different in comparison to that close to a QCP. We also show that even when approached along the gapless critical line, the scaling of the LE is determined by the MCP where the energy gap shows a faster decay with the system size. This claim is verified by studying the short-time and also the collapse and revival behavior of the LE at a quasicritical point on the ferromagnetic side of the MCP. We also connect our observation to the decoherence of the central spin.

id: 1203.0737
title: Loschmidt echo with a non-equilibrium initial state: early time scaling and enhanced decoherence
authors: Victor Mukherjee, Shraddha Sharma, Amit Dutta
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures; New results, figures and references added, title changed
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 020301 (R) (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0737
abstract: We study the Loschmidt echo (LE) in a central spin model in which a central spin is globally coupled to an environment (E) which is subjected to a small and sudden quench at $t=0$ so that its state at $t=0^+$, remains the same as the ground state of the initial environmental Hamiltonian before the quench; this leads to a non-equilibrium situation. This state now evolves with two Hamiltonians, the final Hamiltonian following the quench and its modified version which incorporates an additional term arising due to the coupling of the central spin to the environment. Using a generic short-time scaling of the decay rate, we establish that in the early time limit, the rate of decay of the LE (or the overlap between two states generated from the initial state evolving through two channels) close to the quantum critical point (QCP) of E is independent of the quenching. We do also study the temporal evolution of the LE and establish the presence of a crossover to a situation where the quenching becomes irrelevant. In the limit of large quench amplitude the non-equilibrium initial condition is found to result in a drastic increase in decoherence at large times, even far away from a QCP. These generic results are verified analytically as well as numerically, choosing E to be a transverse Ising chain where the transverse field is suddenly quenched.

id: 1203.0794
title: Multiscale Theory of Finite Size Bose Systems: Implications for Collective and Single-Particle Excitations
authors: Stephen Pankavich, Zeina Zhreif, Yong Chen, Peter Ortoleva
comments: 28 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 79, 013628, 2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0794
abstract: Boson droplets (i.e., dense assemblies of bosons at low temperature) are shown to mask a significant amount of single-particle behavior and to manifest collective, droplet-wide excitations. To investigate the balance between single-particle and collective behavior, solutions to the wave equation for a finite size Bose system are constructed in the limit where the ratio \varepsilon of the average nearest-neighbor boson distance to the size of the droplet or the wavelength of density disturbances is small. In this limit, the lowest order wave function varies smoothly across the system, i.e., is devoid of structure on the scale of the average nearest-neighbor distance. The amplitude of short range structure in the wave function is shown to vanish as a power of \varepsilon when the interatomic forces are relatively weak. However, there is residual short range structure that increases with the strength of interatomic forces. While the multiscale approach is applied to boson droplets, the methodology is applicable to any finite size bose system and is shown to be more direct than field theoretic methods. Conclusions for Helium-4 nanodroplets are drawn.

id: 1203.0859
title: Atomic-signal-based zero field finding technique for unshielded laser-pumped atomic magnetometer
authors: Haifeng Dong, Hongbo Lin, Xinbin Tang
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0859
abstract: We described a novel technique that can find the zero-field for unshielded laser-pumped atomic magnetometer using atomic signal itself. By comparing light density of pump beam after atomic vapor cell, it is decided which direction to move the compensation magnetic field and whether to increase or decrease the converging step length. The zero-field is found in less than 18s and the step length after converging is smaller than 10nT, 10nT and 40nT for x, y and z axes, respectively, limited by 50Hz noise in the lab environment.

id: 1203.0894
title: Raman scattering of atoms from a quasi-condensate in a perturbative regime
authors: T. Wasak, J. Chwedenczuk, P. Zin, M. Trippenbach
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0894
abstract: It is demonstrated that measurements of positions of atoms scattered from a quasi-condensate in a Raman process provide information on the temperature of the parent cloud. In particular, the widths of the density and second order correlation functions are sensitive to the phase fluctuations induced by non-zero temperature of the quasi-condensate. It is also shown how these widths evolve during expansion of the cloud of scattered atoms. These results are useful for planning future Raman scattering experiments and indicate the degree of spatial resolution of atom-position measurements necessary to detect the temperature dependence of the quasi-condensate.

id: 1203.0925
title: Inducing spin-dependent tunneling to probe magnetic correlations in optical lattices
authors: K. G. L. Pedersen, B. M. Andersen, O. F. Syljuasen, G. M. Bruun, A. S. Sorensen
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053642 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0925
abstract: We suggest a simple experimental method for probing antiferromagnetic spin correlations of two-component Fermi gases in optical lattices. The method relies on a spin selective Raman transition to excite atoms of one spin species to their first excited vibrational mode where the tunneling is large. The resulting difference in the tunneling dynamics of the two spin species can then be exploited, to reveal the spin correlations by measuring the number of doubly occupied lattice sites at a later time. We perform quantum Monte Carlo simulations of the spin system and solve the optical lattice dynamics numerically to show how the timed probe can be used to identify antiferromagnetic spin correlations in optical lattices.

id: 1203.0935
title: Ito's formula for the discrete-time quantum walk in two dimensions
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: Accepted for Publication in the Journal of Quantum Information Science
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0935
abstract: Following [Konno, arXiv:1112.4335], it is natural to ask: What is the Ito's formula for the discrete time quantum walk on a graph different than Z, the set of integers? In this paper we answer the question for the discrete time quantum walk on Z^2, the square lattice.

id: 1203.0952
title: Classical Anthropic Everett model: indeterminacy in a preordained multiverse
authors: Brandon Carter
comments: 11 pages Latex contribution to J. Cosmology 14, with extra diagram showing age dependence of anthropic quotient. Also in Consciousness and the Universe: Quantum Physics, Evolution, Brain and Mind, ed. R. Penrose, S. Hameroff, S. Kak (Cosmology Science Publishers, Cambridge, Mass., 2011) 1077-1086
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0952
abstract: Although ultimately motivated by quantum theoretical considerations, Everett's many-world idea remains valid, as an approximation, in the classical limit. However to be applicable it must in any case be applied in conjunction with an appropriate anthropic principle, whose precise formulation involves an anthropic quotient that can be normalised to unity for adult humans but that would be lower for infants and other animals. The outcome is a deterministic multiverse in which the only function of chance is the specification of one's particular identity.

id: 1203.1104
title: Restrictions and extensions of semibounded operators
authors: Palle Jorgensen, Steen Pedersen, Feng Tian
comments: 63 pages, 11 figures
journal: Complex Analysis and Operator Theory, 2012
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1104
abstract: We study restriction and extension theory for semibounded Hermitian operators in the Hardy space of analytic functions on the disk D. Starting with the operator zd/dz, we show that, for every choice of a closed subset F in T=bd(D) of measure zero, there is a densely defined Hermitian restriction of zd/dz corresponding to boundary functions vanishing on F. For every such restriction operator, we classify all its selfadjoint extension, and for each we present a complete spectral picture. We prove that different sets F with the same cardinality can lead to quite different boundary-value problems, inequivalent selfadjoint extension operators, and quite different spectral configurations. As a tool in our analysis, we prove that the von Neumann deficiency spaces, for a fixed set F, have a natural presentation as reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces, with a Hurwitz zeta-function, restricted to FxF, as reproducing kernel.

id: 1203.1137
title: Quantum effects in classical chaos through intermittency
authors: T. S. Nag, P. Banerjee
comments: 22 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1137
abstract: The semi-quantal dynamics is applied to investigate the influence of quantum fluctuations on problems in classical chaos through intermittency involving bifurcations. The results of the numerical calculations indicate that quantum effects enhance the tendency to chaos in both the problems of inverted pitchfork and saddle-node bifurcations discussed here.

id: 1203.1153
title: Correlation/Communication complexity of generating bipartite states
authors: Rahul Jain, Yaoyun Shi, Zhaohui Wei, Shengyu Zhang
comments: 12 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1153
abstract: We study the correlation complexity (or equivalently, the communication complexity) of generating a bipartite quantum state $\rho$. When $\rho$ is a pure state, we completely characterize the complexity for approximately generating $\rho$ by a corresponding approximate rank, closing a gap left in Ambainis, Schulman, Ta-Shma, Vazirani and Wigderson (SIAM Journal on Computing, 32(6):1570-1585, 2003). When $\rho$ is a classical distribution $P(x,y)$, we tightly characterize the complexity of generating $P$ by the psd-rank, a measure recently proposed by Fiorini, Massar, Pokutta, Tiwary and de Wolf (STOC 2012). We also present a characterization of the complexity of generating a general quantum state $\rho$.

id: 1203.1173
title: Cosmological particle creation in the lab?
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, William G. Unruh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1173
abstract: One of the most striking examples for the production of particles out of the quantum vacuum due to external conditions is cosmological particle creation, which is caused by the expansion or contraction of the Universe. Already in 1939, Schr\"odinger understood that the cosmic evolution could lead to a mixing of positive and negative frequencies and that this "would mean production or annihilation of matter, merely by the expansion". Later this phenomenon was derived via more modern techniques of quantum field theory in curved space-times by Parker (who apparently was not aware of Schr\"odinger's work) and subsequently has been studied in numerous publications. Even though cosmological particle creation typically occurs on extremely large length scales, it is one of the very few examples for such fundamental effects where we actually may have observational evidence: According to the inflationary model of cosmology, the seeds for the anisotropies in the cosmic microwave background (CMB) and basically all large scale structures stem from this effect. In this Chapter, we shall provide a brief discussion of this phenomenon and sketch a possibility for an experimental realization via an analogue in the laboratory.

id: 1203.1186
title: The scaling of the decoherence factor of a qubit coupled to a spin chain driven across quantum critical points
authors: Tanay Nag, Uma Divakaran, Amit Dutta
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, Final and accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. B (Rapid. Comm.) 86, 020401 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1186
abstract: We study the scaling of the decoherence factor of a qubit (spin-1/2) using the central spin model in which the central spin (qubit) is globally coupled to a transverse XY spin chain. The aim here is to study the non-equilibrium generation of decoherence when the spin chain is driven across (along) quantum critical points (lines) and derive the scaling of the decoherence factor in terms of the driving rate and some of the exponents associated with the quantum critical points. Our studies show that the scaling of logarithm of decoherence factor is identical to that of the defect density in the final state of the spin chain following a quench across isolated quantum critical points for both linear and non-linear variations of a parameter even if the defect density may not satisfy the standard Kibble-Zurek scaling. However, one finds an interesting deviation when the spin chain is driven along a critical line. Our analytical predictions are in complete agreement with numerical results. Our study, though limited to integrable two-level systems, points to the existence of a universality in the scaling of the decoherence factor which is not necessarily identical to the scaling of the defect density.

id: 1203.1195
title: Scattering and bound states of spin-0 particles in a nonminimal vector double-step potential
authors: L. P. de Oliveira, A. S. de Castro
comments: 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1195
abstract: The problem of spin-0 particles subject to a nonminimal vector double-step potential is explored in the context of the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau theory. Surprisingly, one can never have an incident wave totally reflected and the transmission amplitude has complex poles corresponding to bound states. The interesting special case of bosons embedded in a sign potential with its unique bound-state solution is analyzed as a limiting case.

id: 1203.1220
title: Optically guided beam splitter for propagating matter waves
authors: Giovanni Luca Gattobigio, Antoine Couvert, Gael Reinaudi, Bertrand Georgeot, David Guery-Odelin
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 109 (2012) 030403
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1220
abstract: We study experimentally and theoretically a beam splitter setup for guided atomic matter waves. The matter wave is a guided atom laser that can be tuned from quasi-monomode to a regime where many transverse modes are populated, and propagates in a horizontal dipole beam until it crosses another horizontal beam at 45$^{\rm o}$. We show that depending on the parameters of this $X$ configuration, the atoms can all end up in one of the two beams (the system behaves as a perfect guide switch), or be split between the four available channels (the system behaves as a beam splitter). The splitting regime results from a chaotic scattering dynamics. The existence of these different regimes turns out to be robust against small variations of the parameters of the system. From numerical studies, we also propose a scheme that provides a robust and controlled beam splitter in two channels only.

id: 1203.1223
title: Dynamical decoupling of superconducting qubits
authors: Jian Li, G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 4 figures, 6 pages
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 338,012010 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1223
abstract: We show that two superconducting qubits interacting via a fixed transversal coupling can be decoupled by appropriately-designed microwave feld excitations applied to each qubit. This technique is useful for removing the effects of spurious interactions in a quantum processor. We also simulate the case of a qubit coupled to a two-level system (TLS) present in the insulating layer of the Josephson junction of the qubit. Finally, we discuss the qubit-TLS problem in the context of dispersive measurements, where the qubit is coupled to a resonator.

id: 1203.1246
title: Detecting Chiral Edge States in the Hofstadter Optical Lattice
authors: Nathan Goldman, Jerome Beugnon, Fabrice Gerbier
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, Supplementary material (Appendices A-D). Revised version, accepted in the Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 255303 (2012) [5 pages]
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1246
abstract: We propose a realistic scheme to detect topological edge states in an optical lattice subjected to a synthetic magnetic field, based on a generalization of Bragg spectroscopy sensitive to angular momentum. We demonstrate that using a well-designed laser probe, the Bragg spectra provide an unambiguous signature of the topological edge states that establishes their chiral nature. This signature is present for a variety of boundaries, from a hard wall to a smooth harmonic potential added on top of the optical lattice. Experimentally, the Bragg signal should be very weak. To make it detectable, we introduce a "shelving method", based on Raman transitions, which transfers angular momentum and changes the internal atomic state simultaneously. This scheme allows to detect the weak signal from the selected edge states on a dark background, and drastically improves the detectivity. It also leads to the possibility to directly visualize the topological edge states, using in situ imaging, offering a unique and instructive view on topological insulating phases.

id: 1203.1259
title: Kilohertz-driven Bose-Einstein condensates in optical lattices
authors: Ennio Arimondo, Donatella Ciampini, Andr¨¦ Eckardt, Martin Holthaus, Oliver Morsch
comments: 36 pages, 3 figures, Advance Atomic Molecular Physics in press
journal: Advances in Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics 61, 515-547 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1259
abstract: We analyze time-of-flight absorption images obtained with dilute Bose-Einstein con-densates released from shaken optical lattices, both theoretically and experimentally. We argue that weakly interacting, ultracold quantum gases in kilohertz-driven optical potentials constitute equilibrium systems characterized by a steady-state distri-bution of Floquet-state occupation numbers. Our experimental results consistently indicate that a driven ultracold Bose gas tends to occupy a single Floquet state, just as it occupies a single energy eigenstate when there is no forcing. When the driving amplitude is sufficiently high, the Floquet state possessing the lowest mean energy does not necessarily coincide with the Floquet state connected to the ground state of the undriven system. We observe strongly driven Bose gases to condense into the former state under such conditions, thus providing nontrivial examples of dressed matter waves.

id: 1203.1260
title: Brownian motion of the electron and the Lamb shift at finite temperature
authors: Eugene B. Kolomeisky
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1260
abstract: By enhancing electron position fluctuations, equilibrium electromagnetic radiation modifies the potential for an electron in a Hydrogen atom. This can have significant effects for weakly bound states and especially at finite temperature. This implies a 2% correction to Bethe's value for 2S-2P Lamb shift for weak fluctuations, but the effect is an order of magnitude larger for strong fluctuations where it provides direct measure of the proton diameter.

id: 1203.1261
title: Rydberg excitation of a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: M. Viteau, M. Bason, J. Radogostowicz, N. Malossi, O. Morsch, D. Ciampini, E. Arimondo
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, Laser Physics in press. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1103.4232
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1261
abstract: We have performed two-photon excitation via the 6P3/2 state to n=50-80 S or D Rydberg state in Bose-Einstein condensates of rubidium atoms. The Rydberg excitation was performed in a quartz cell, where electric fields generated by plates external to the cell created electric charges on the cell walls. Avoiding accumulation of the charges and realizing good control over the applied electric field was obtained when the fields were applied only for a short time, typically a few microseconds. Rydberg excitations of the Bose-Einstein condensates loaded into quasi one-dimensional traps and in optical lattices have been investigated. The results for condensates expanded to different sizes in the one-dimensional trap agree well with the intuitive picture of a chain of Rydberg excitations controlled by the dipole-dipole interaction. The optical lattice applied along the one-dimensional geometry produces localized, collective Rydberg excitations controlled by the nearest-neighbour blockade.

id: 1203.1281
title: Universal Sound Attenuation in Amorphous Solids at Low-Temperatures
authors: Dervis Can Vural
comments: PhD Thesis: 35 pages, 5 figures. A compact version has been published at JNCS: Vural-Leggett (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1281
abstract: Disordered solids are known to exhibit quantitative universalities at low temperatures, the most striking of which is the ultrasonic attenuation coefficient Q. The established theory of tunneling two state systems (TTLS) in its original form (i.e. without extra fitting functions and parameters), is unable to explain this universality. While the TTLS model can be modified, particularly by including long range phonon induced interactions to explain the universal value of Q, (a) it is not clear that the essential features of the original model that has been successful in explaining the experimental data is preserved, and (b) even if it is, it is not clear that the postulates of the original model remain necessary. The purpose of this study is to derive the universal acoustic absorption and related quantities observed in disordered solids by starting from a many-body quantum theory of unspecified amorphous blocks that mutually interact through the strain field. Based on very generic assumptions and having no adjustable fitting parameters, the frequency and initial state averaged macroscopic attenuation of a group of interacting disordered blocks is calculated in the low temperature regime by a novel "trace method", which then is iterated up-to experimental length scales through a real space renormalization group approach. Then using a heuristic second-order perturbation argument, the frequency dependence of Q is found, and combined with the previous result to yield the observed universal values in the MHz-Ghz range of frequencies. It is concluded that strong microscopic postulates are not necessary in order to explain the thermal conductivity, velocity shift and sound attenuation of disordered media in the low temperature regime.

id: 1203.1299
title: Biological Circuits: Analysis of a Biological Oscillator
authors: Georgios I. Tsormpatzoglou
comments: Withdrawn temporarily due to an issue with the figures contained
journal: 
subjects: Molecular Networks (q-bio.MN); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1299
abstract: The simple circadian oscillator found in cyanobacteria can be reconstituted in vitro using three proteins-KaiA, KaiB and KaiC. The total phosphorylation level of KaiC oscillates with a circadian period. Recent experiments elucidated the structure and function of the cyanobacterial circadian oscillator, which is driven by sunlight intensity variation and therefore by Earth's rotation. In this paper, we derive the oscillator's equation of motion directly from experimental data, couple it with Earth's rotation and compute its natural periods and resonance curve. Finally, we propose the use of a quantum circuit that is capable of describing the function of the oscillator.

id: 1203.1322
title: Roton-type mode softening in a quantum gas with cavity-mediated long-range interactions
authors: R. Mottl, F. Brennecke, K. Baumann, R. Landig, T. Donner, T. Esslinger
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, supplementary materials
journal: Science 336, 1570 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1322
abstract: Long-range interactions in quantum gases are predicted to give rise to an excitation spectrum of roton character, similar to that observed in superfluid helium. We investigate the excitation spectrum of a Bose-Einstein condensate with cavity-mediated long-range interactions, which couple all particles to each other. Increasing the strength of the interaction leads to a softening of an excitation mode at a finite momentum, preceding a superfluid to supersolid phase transition. We study the mode softening spectroscopically across the phase transition using a variant of Bragg spectroscopy. The measured spectrum is in very good agreement with ab initio calculations and, at the phase transition, a diverging susceptibility is observed. The work paves the way towards quantum simulation of long-range interacting many-body systems.

id: 1203.1364
title: Properties and construction of extreme bipartite states having positive partial transpose
authors: Lin Chen, Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: Updated version. 32 pages
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, 2013, vol. 323, issue 1, pp. 241-284
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1364
abstract: We consider a bipartite quantum system H_A x H_B with M=dim H_A and N=dim H_B. We study the set E of extreme points of the compact convex set of all states having positive partial transpose (PPT) and its subsets E_r={rho in E: rank rho=r}. Our main results pertain to the subsets E_r^{M,N} of E_r consisting of states whose reduced density operators have ranks M and N, respectively. The set E_1 is just the set of pure product states. It is known that E_r^{M,N} is empty for 1< r <= min(M,N) and for r=MN. We prove that also E_{MN-1}^{M,N} is empty. Leinaas, Myrheim and Sollid have conjectured that E_{M+N-2}^{M,N} is not empty for all M,N>2 and that E_r^{M,N} is empty for 1<r<M+N-2. We prove the first part of their conjecture. The second part is known to hold when min(M,N)=3 and we prove that it holds also when min(M,N)=4. This is a consequence of our result that E_{N+1}^{M,N} is empty if M,N>3. We introduce the notion of "good" states, show that all pure states are good and give a simple description of the good separable states. For a good state rho in E_{M+N-2}^{M,N}, we prove that the range of rho contains no product vectors and that the partial transpose of rho has rank M+N-2 as well. In the special case M=3, we construct good 3 x N extreme states of rank N+1 for all N>3.

id: 1203.1408
title: Lagrange-mesh calculations in momentum space
authors: G. Lacroix, C. Semay, F. Buisseret
comments: Extended version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 026705 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1408
abstract: The Lagrange-mesh method is a powerful method to solve eigenequations written in configuration space. It is very easy to implement and very accurate. Using a Gauss quadrature rule, the method requires only the evaluation of the potential at some mesh points. The eigenfunctions are expanded in terms of regularized Lagrange functions which vanish at all mesh points except one. It is shown that this method can be adapted to solve eigenequations written in momentum space, keeping the convenience and the accuracy of the original technique. In particular, the kinetic operator is a diagonal matrix. Observables in both configuration space and momentum space can also be easily computed with a good accuracy using only eigenfunctions computed in the momentum space. The method is tested with Gaussian and Yukawa potentials, requiring respectively a small or a great mesh to reach convergence.

id: 1203.1431
title: Triplet-singlet conversion by broadband optical pumping
authors: Ridha Horchani, Hans Lignier, Nadia Bouloufa-Maafa, Andrea Fioretti, Pierre Pillet, Daniel Comparat
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 030502(R) (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1431
abstract: We demonstrate the conversion of cold Cs_{2} molecules initially distributed over several vibrational levels of the lowest triplet state a^{3}\Sigma_{u}^{+} into the singlet ground state X^{1}\Sigma_{g}^{+}. This conversion is realized by a broadband laser exciting the molecules to a well-chosen state from which they may decay to the singlet state throug\textcolor{black}{h two sequential single-photon emission steps: Th}e first photon populates levels with mixed triplet-singlet character, making possible a second spontaneous emission down to several vibrational levels of the X^{1}\Sigma_{g}^{+} states. By adding an optical scheme for vibrational cooling, a substantial fraction of molecules are transferred to the ground vibrational level of the singlet state. The efficiency of the conversion process, with and without vibrational cooling, is discussed at the end of the article. The presented conversion is general in scope and could be extended to other molecules.

id: 1203.1446
title: A generic Hopf algebra for quantum statistical mechanics
authors: Allan I. Solomon, Gerard E. H. Duchamp, Pawel Blasiak, Andrzej Horzela, Karol A. Penson
comments: 8 pages/(4 pages published version), 1 Figure. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1011.0524
journal: Physica Scripta 82 038115 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1446
abstract: In this paper, we present a Hopf algebra description of a bosonic quantum model, using the elementary combinatorial elements of Bell and Stirling numbers. Our objective in doing this is as follows. Recent studies have revealed that perturbative quantum field theory (pQFT) displays an astonishing interplay between analysis (Riemann zeta functions), topology (Knot theory), combinatorial graph theory (Feynman diagrams) and algebra (Hopf structure). Since pQFT is an inherently complicated study, so far not exactly solvable and replete with divergences, the essential simplicity of the relationships between these areas can be somewhat obscured. The intention here is to display some of the above-mentioned structures in the context of a simple bosonic quantum theory, i.e. a quantum theory of non-commuting operators that do not depend on space-time. The combinatorial properties of these boson creation and annihilation operators, which is our chosen example, may be described by graphs, analogous to the Feynman diagrams of pQFT, which we show possess a Hopf algebra structure. Our approach is based on the quantum canonical partition function for a boson gas.

id: 1203.1485
title: Long-Lived Electronic Coherence in Dissipative Exciton-Dynamics of Light-Harvesting Complexes
authors: Christoph Kreisbeck, Tobias Kramer
comments: 7 pages
journal: J. Phys. Chem. Lett., vol. 3, p. 2828 (2012)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1485
abstract: The observed prevalence of oscillatory signals in the spectroscopy of biological light-harvesting complexes at ambient temperatures has led to a search for mechanisms supporting coherent transport through larger molecules in noisy environments. We demonstrate a generic mechanism supporting long-lasting electronic coherence up to 0.3 ps at a temperature of 277 K. The mechanism relies on two properties of the spectral density: (i) a large dissipative coupling to a continuum of higher-frequency vibrations required for efficient transport and (ii) a small slope of the spectral density at zero frequency.

id: 1203.1496
title: Enhanced radiative heat transfer between nanostructured gold plates
authors: R. Gu¨¦rout, J. Lussange, F. S. S. Rosa, J.-P. Hugonin, D. A. R. Dalvit, J.-J. Greffet, A. Lambrecht, S. Reynaud
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 85, 180301(R) (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1496
abstract: We compute the radiative heat transfer between nanostructured gold plates in the framework of the scattering theory. We predict an enhancement of the heat transfer as we increase the depth of the corrugations while keeping the distance of closest approach fixed. We interpret this effect in terms of the evolution of plasmonic and guided modes as a function of the grating's geometry.

id: 1203.1498
title: Model of the bremsstrahlung emission accompanying interactions between protons and nuclei from low up to intermediate energies: role of magnetic emission
authors: Sergei P. Maydanyuk
comments: 25 pages, 23 figures. The following changes are included: (1) comments on why model does not describe well experimental data for 64-Cu (than data for 12-C, 107-Ag obtained by the same group of experimentalists) at 72 MeV; (2) analysis of multipolar components, their role in angular analysis; (3) minor corrections of definitions of photons quantum numbers and bremsstrahlung probability
journal: Phys. Rev. C 86, 014618 (2012)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1498
abstract: A new model of the bremsstrahlung emission which accompanies proton decay and collisions of protons off nuclei in the energy region from the lowest up to intermediate, has been developed. This model includes spin formalism, potential approach for description of interaction between protons and nuclei, and operator of emission includes component of the magnetic emission (defined on the basis of Pauli equation). In the problem of the bremsstrahlung during the proton decay in the first time a role of the magnetic emission is studied using such a model. For the studied $^{146}{\rm Tm}$ nucleus it has been studied the following: (1) How much does the magnetic emission change the full bremsstrahlung spectrum? (2) At which angle is the magnetic emission the most intensive relatively electric one? (3) Is there some space region where the magnetic emission increases strongly relatively electric one? (4) How intensive is the magnetic emission in the tunneling region? (5) Which values has the probability at its maximum and at zero energy limit of the emitted photons? It is demonstrated that the model is able to describe enough well experimental data of the bremsstrahlung emission which accompanies collisions of protons off the $^{9}{\rm Be}$, $^{12}{\rm C}$ and $^{208}{\rm Pb}$ nuclei at the incident energy $T_{\rm lab}=140$ MeV (at the photon energy up to 120 MeV).

id: 1203.1508
title: Analysis of interface conversion processes of ballistic and diffusive motion in driven superlattices
authors: Thomas Wulf, Christoph Petri, Benno Liebchen, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 016201 (2012)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1508
abstract: We explore the non-equilibrium dynamics of non-interacting classical particles in a one-dimensional driven superlattice which is composed of domains exposed to different time-dependent forces. It is shown how the combination of directed transport and conversion processes from diffusive to ballistic motion causes strong correlations between velocity and phase for particles passing through a superlattice. A detailed understanding of the underlying mechanism allows us to tune the resulting velocity distributions at distinguished points in the superlattice by means of local variations of the applied driving force. As an intriguing application we present a scheme how initially diffusive particles can be transformed into a monoenergetic pulsed particle beam whose parameters such as its energy can be varied.

id: 1203.1510
title: On the Mirage of the Classical Electron of Uhlenbeck and Goudsmit
authors: Anand P. Batra, Tristan hubsch
comments: 4 pages (LaTeX twice); v2: added a historical reference and minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1510
abstract: The idea that the electron is an extended charged object the spinning of which is responsible for its magnetic moment is shown to require a sizable portion of the electron to spin at speeds very close to the speed of light, and in fact to explode within an unacceptably short time, ~1E-31 s. The experimentally well-established magnetic moment of elementary particles such as the electron therefore must be accepted as an intrinsic property, with no need for classical models based on spatially extended objects. Emphasizing these facts in education, as early as possible, is important to the framing of the proper mind-set.

id: 1203.1639
title: Time-Optimal Adiabatic-Like Expansion of Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Dionisis Stefanatos, Jr-Shin Li
comments: Submitted to 51st IEEE Conference on Decision and Control
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 86, 063602, 2012
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1639
abstract: In this paper we study the fast adiabatic-like expansion of a one-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) confined in a harmonic potential, using the theory of time-optimal control. We find that under reasonable assumptions suggested by the experimental setup, the minimum-time expansion occurs when the frequency of the potential changes in a bang-bang form between the permitted values. We calculate the necessary expansion time and show that it scales logarithmically with large values of the expansion factor. This work is expected to find applications in areas where the efficient manipulations of BEC is of utmost importance. As an example we present the field of atom interferometry with BEC, where the wavelike properties of atoms are used to perform interference experiments that measure with unprecedented precision small shifts induced by phenomena like rotation, acceleration, and gravity gradients.

id: 1203.1727
title: Diffusive high-temperature transport in the one-dimensional Hubbard model
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Marko Znidaric
comments: 6 pages RevTeX + 8 eps figures; revised and extended version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 125118 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1727
abstract: We consider charge and spin transport in the one-dimensional Hubbard model at infinite temperature, half-filling and zero magnetization. Implementing matrix-product-operator simulations of the non-equilibrium steady states of boundary-driven open Hubbard chains for up to 100 sites we find clear evidence of diffusive transport for any (non-zero and finite) value of the interaction U.

id: 1203.1736
title: Relativistic and nonrelativistic bound states of the isotonic oscillator by Nikiforov-Uvarov method
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0711.4899
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52 (2011) 122108
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1736
abstract: A nonpolynomial one-dimensional quantum potential in the form of an isotonic oscillator (harmonic oscillator with a centripetal barrier) is studied. We provide the non-relativistic bound state energy spectrum E_{n} and the wave functions {\psi}_{n}(x) in terms of the associated Laguerre polynomials in the framework of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. Under the spin and pseudospin symmetric limits, the analytic eigenvalues and the corresponding two-component upper- and lower-spinors of the Dirac particle are obtained, in closed form.

id: 1203.1755
title: Chirality and angular momentum in optical radiation
authors: Matt M. Coles, David L. Andrews
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 85, 063810 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1755
abstract: This paper develops, in precise quantum electrodynamic terms, photonic attributes of the "optical chirality density", one of several measures long known to be conserved quantities for a vacuum electromagnetic field. The analysis lends insights into some recent interpretations of chiroptical experiments, in which this measure, and an associated chirality flux, have been treated as representing physically distinctive "superchiral" phenomena. In the fully quantized formalism the chirality density is promoted to operator status, whose exploration with reference to an arbitrary polarization basis reveals relationships to optical angular momentum and helicity operators. Analyzing multi-mode beams with complex wave-front structures, notably Laguerre-Gaussian modes, affords a deeper understanding of the interplay between optical chirality and optical angular momentum. By developing theory with due cognizance of the photonic character of light, it emerges that only the spin angular momentum of light is engaged in such observations. Furthermore, it is shown that these prominent measures of the helicity of chiral electromagnetic radiation have a common basis, in differences between the populations of optical modes associated with angular momenta of opposite sign. Using a calculation of the rate of circular dichroism as an example, with coherent states to model the electromagnetic field, it is discovered that two terms contribute to the differential effect. The primary contribution relates to the difference in left- and right- handed photon populations; the only other contribution, which displays a sinusoidal distance-dependence, corresponding to the claim of nodal enhancements, is connected with the quantum photon number-phase uncertainty relation. From the full analysis, it appears that the term "superchiral" can be considered redundant.

id: 1203.1837
title: Normalized Observational Probabilities from Unnormalizable Quantum States or Phase-Space Distributions
authors: Don N. Page
comments: 15 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1837
abstract: Often it is assumed that a quantum state or a phase-space distribution must be normalizable. Here it is shown that even if it is not normalizable, one may be able to extract normalized observational probabilities from it.

id: 1203.1855
title: Derivative expansion of the electromagnetic Casimir energy for two thin mirrors
authors: Cesar D. Fosco, Fernando C. Lombardo, Francisco D. Mazzitelli
comments: Version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1855
abstract: We extend our previous work on a derivative expansion for the Casimir energy, to the case of the electromagnetic field coupled to two thin, imperfect mirrors. The latter are described by means of vacuum polarization tensors localized on the mirrors. We apply the results so obtained to compute the first correction to the proximity force approximation to the static Casimir effect.

id: 1203.1873
title: Non-yrast nuclear spectra in a model of coherent quadrupole-octupole motion
authors: N. Minkov, S. Drenska, M. Strecker, W. Scheid, H. Lenske
comments: 38 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. C, vol. 85, 034306 (2012)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1873
abstract: A model assuming coherent quadrupole-octupole vibrations and rotations is applied to describe non-yrast energy sequences with alternating parity in several even-even nuclei from different regions, namely $^{152,154}$Sm, $^{154,156,158}$Gd, $^{236}$U and $^{100}$Mo. Within the model scheme the yrast alternating-parity band is composed by the members of the ground-state band and the lowest negative-parity levels with odd angular momenta. The non-yrast alternating-parity sequences unite levels of $\beta$-bands with higher negative-parity levels. The model description reproduces the structure of the considered alternating-parity spectra together with the observed B(E1), B(E2) and B(E3) transition probabilities within and between the different level-sequences. B(E1) and B(E3) reduced probabilities for transitions connecting states with opposite parity in the non-yrast alternating-parity bands are predicted. The implemented study outlines the limits of the considered band-coupling scheme and provides estimations about the collective energy potential which governs the quadrupole-octupole properties of the considered nuclei.

id: 1203.1972
title: An Exactly Solvable Model for the Integrability-Chaos Transition in Rough Quantum Billiards
authors: Maxim Olshanii, Kurt Jacobs, Marcos Rigol, Vanja Dunjko, Harry Kennard, Vladimir A. Yurovsky
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Communications 3, 641 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1972
abstract: A central question of dynamics, largely open in the quantum case, is to what extent it erases a system's memory of its initial properties. Here we present a simple statistically solvable quantum model describing this memory loss across an integrability-chaos transition under a perturbation obeying no selection rules. From the perspective of quantum localization-delocalization on the lattice of quantum numbers, we are dealing with a situation where every lattice site is coupled to every other site with the same strength, on average. The model also rigorously justifies a similar set of relationships recently proposed in the context of two short-range-interacting ultracold atoms in a harmonic waveguide. Application of our model to an ensemble of uncorrelated impurities on a rectangular lattice gives good agreement with ab initio numerics.

id: 1203.2020
title: Excitation spectrum of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate in a ring potential
authors: J. Smyrnakis, M. Magiropoulos, A. D. Jackson, G. M. Kavoulakis
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 235302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2020
abstract: A mixture of two distinguishable Bose-Einstein condensates confined in a ring potential has numerous interesting properties under rotational and solitary-wave excitation. The lowest-energy states for a fixed angular momentum coincide with a family of solitary-wave solutions. In the limit of weak interactions, exact diagonalization of the many-body Hamiltonian is possible and permits evaluation of the complete excitation spectrum of the system.

id: 1203.2038
title: Resonantly enhanced photoionization in correlated three-atomic systems
authors: B. Najjari, C. M¨¹ller, A. B. Voitkiv
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2038
abstract: Modifications of photoionization arising from resonant electron-electron correlations between neighbouring atoms in an atomic sample are studied. The sample contains atomic species A and B, with the ionization potential of A being smaller than the energy of a dipole-allowed transition in B. The atoms are subject to an external radiation field which is near-resonant with the dipole transition in B. Photoionization of an atom A may thus proceed via a two-step mechanism: photoexcitation in the subsystem of species B, followed by interatomic Coulombic decay. As a basic atomic configuration, we investigate resonant photoionization in a three-atomic system A-B-B, consisting of an atom A and two neighbouring atoms B. It is found that, under suitable conditions, the influence of the neighbouring atoms can strongly affect the photoionization process, including its total probabilty, time development and photoelectron spectra. In particular, by comparing our results with those for photoionization of an isolated atom A and a two-atomic system A-B, respectively, we reveal the characteristic impact exerted by the third atom.

id: 1203.2063
title: Effects of interactions on Bose-Einstein condensation of an atomic gas
authors: Robert P. Smith, Zoran Hadzibabic
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures, A short review to appear as a Chapter in "Quantum fluids: hot-topics and new trends" (Springer), edited by Alberto Bramati and Michele Modugno
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2063
abstract: The phase transition to a Bose-Einstein condensate is unusual in that it is not necessarily driven by inter-particle interactions but can occur in an ideal gas as a result of a purely statistical saturation of excited states. However, interactions are necessary for any system to reach thermal equilibrium and so are required for condensation to occur in finite time. In this Chapter we review the role of interactions in Bose-Einstein condensation, covering both theory and experiment. We focus on measurements performed on harmonically trapped ultracold atomic gases, but also discuss how these results relate to the uniform-system case, which is more theoretically studied and also more relevant for other experimental systems. We first consider interaction strengths for which the system can be considered sufficiently close to equilibrium to measure thermodynamic behaviour. In particular we discuss the effects of interactions both on the mechanism of condensation (namely the saturation of the excited states) and on the critical temperature at which condensation occurs. We then discuss in more detail the conditions for the equilibrium thermodynamic measurements to be possible, and the non-equilibrium phenomena that occur when these conditions are controllably violated by tuning the strength of interactions in the gas.

id: 1203.2098
title: Spectral estimates for Dirichlet Laplacians and Schroedinger operators on geometrically nontrivial cusps
authors: Pavel Exner, Diana Barseghyan
comments: LaTeX, 18 pages; minor improvement, references added; to appear in Journal of Spectral Theory
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2098
abstract: The goal of this paper is to derive estimates of eigenvalue moments for Dirichlet Laplacians and Schr\"odinger operators in regions having infinite cusps which are geometrically nontrivial being either curved or twisted; we are going to show how those geometric properties enter the eigenvalue bounds. The obtained inequalities reflect the essentially one-dimensional character of the cusps and we give an example showing that in an intermediate energy region they can be much stronger than the usual semiclassical bounds.

id: 1203.2110
title: Lax-Phillips scattering theory for PT-symmetric ¦Ñ-perturbed operators
authors: Petru A. Cojuhari, Sergii Kuzhel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2110
abstract: The S-matrices corresponding to PT-symmetric \rho-perturbed operators are defined and calculated by means of an approach based on an operator-theoretical interpretation of the Lax-Phillips scattering theory.

id: 1203.2139
title: Heat transport in quantum harmonic chains with Redfield baths
authors: Bojan ?unkovi?, Toma? Prosen
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2139
abstract: We provide an explicit method for solving general markovian master equations for quadratic bosonic Hamiltonians with linear bath operators. As an example we consider a one-dimensional quantum harmonic oscillator chain coupled to thermal reservoirs at both ends of the chain. We derive an analytic solution of the Redfield master equation for homogeneous harmonic chain and recover classical results, namely, vanishing temperature gradient and constant heat current in the thermodynamic limit. In the case of the disordered gapped chains we observe universal heat current scaling independent of the bath spectral function, the system-bath coupling strength, and the boundary conditions.

id: 1203.2153
title: Addressing and manipulation of individual hyperfine states in cold trapped molecular ions and application to HD^{+} frequency metrology
authors: U. Bressel, A. Borodin, J. Shen, M. Hansen, I. Ernsting, S. Schiller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 183003 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2153
abstract: Advanced techniques for manipulation of internal states, standard in atomic physics, are demonstrated for a charged molecular species for the first time. We address individual hyperfine states of ro-vibrational levels of a diatomic ion by optical excitation of individual hyperfine transitions, and achieve controlled transfer of population into a selected hyperfine state. We use molecular hydrogen ions (HD^{+}) as a model system and employ a novel frequency-comb-based, continuous-wave 5 \mum laser spectrometer. The achieved spectral resolution is the highest obtained so far in the optical domain on a molecular ion species. As a consequence, we are also able to perform the most precise test yet of the ab-initio theory of a molecule.

id: 1203.2324
title: A scaling-limit approach to the theory of laser transition
authors: Paul Gartner
comments: Intended as contribution to "Photonics Europe 2012" Brussels, Belgium
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2324
abstract: The conditions for the appearance of a sharp laser transition are formulated in terms of a scaling limit, involving vanishing cavity loss and light-matter coupling, $\kappa \to 0$, $g \to 0$, such that $g^2/\kappa$ stays finite. It is shown analytically that in this asymptotic parameter domain, and for pump rates above the threshold value, the photon output becomes large in a sense that is specified, and the photon statistics becomes strictly Poissonian. Numerical examples for the case of a two-level and a three-level emitter are presented and discussed in relation to the analytic result.

id: 1203.2326
title: Exact and Scaling Form of the Bipartite Fidelity of the Infinite XXZ Chain
authors: Robert Weston
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2326
abstract: We find an exact expression for the bipartite fidelity f=|<vac|vac>'|^2, where |vac> is the vacuum eigenstate of an infinite-size antiferromagnetic XXZ chain and |vac>' is the vacuum eigenstate of an infinite-size XXZ chain which is split in two. We consider the quantity -ln(f) which has been put forward as a measure of quantum entanglement, and show that the large correlation length xi behaviour is consistent with a general conjecture -ln(f) ~ c/8 ln(xi), where c is the central charge of the UV conformal field theory (with c=1 for the XXZ chain). This behaviour is a natural extension of the existing conformal field theory prediction of -ln(f) ~ c/8 ln(L) for a length L bipartite system with 0<< L <<xi.

id: 1203.2348
title: Joint quantum measurements and Poisson bracket invariants
authors: Leonid Polterovich
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. Generalized and incorporated into "Symplectic geometry of quantum noise"
journal: 
subjects: Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2348
abstract: The paper has been withdrawn by the author.

id: 1203.2359
title: Superalgebra and Harmonic Oscillator with Constant Positive Curvature
authors: J. Sadeghi, H. Moayyeri
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2359
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a error in attachment of source file.

id: 1203.2491
title: Emission spectrum of the driven nonlinear oscillator
authors: Stephan Andr¨¦, Lingzhen Guo, Vittorio Peano, Michael Marthaler, Gerd Sch?n
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053825 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2491
abstract: Motivated by recent "circuit QED" experiments we investigate the noise properties of coherently driven nonlinear resonators. By using Josephson junctions in superconducting circuits, strong nonlinearities can be engineered, which lead to the appearance of pronounced effects already for a low number of photons in the resonator. Based on a master equation approach we determine the emission spectrum and observe for typical circuit QED parameters, in addition to the primary Raman-type peaks, second-order peaks. These peaks describe higher harmonics in the slow noise-induced fluctuations of the oscillation amplitude of the resonator and provide a clear signature of the nonlinear nature of the system.

id: 1203.2504
title: Valley-kink in Bilayer Graphene at $¦Í=0$: A Charge Density Signature for Quantum Hall Ferromagnetism
authors: Chia-Wei Huang, Efrat Shimshoni, H. A. Fertig
comments: 
journal: PhysRevB.85.205114 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2504
abstract: We investigate interaction-induced valley domain walls in bilayer graphene in the $\nu=0$ quantum Hall state, subject to a perpendicular electric field that is antisymmetric across a line in the sample. Such a state can be realized in a double-gated suspended sample, where the electric field changes sign across a line in the middle. The non-interacting energy spectrum of the ground state is characterized by a sharp domain wall between two valley-polarized regions. Using the Hartree-Fock approximation, we find that the Coulomb interaction opens a gap between the two lowest-lying states near the Fermi level, yielding a smooth domain wall with a kink configuration in the valley index. Our results suggest the possibility to visualize the domain wall via measuring the charge density difference between the two graphene layers, which we find exhibits a characteristic pattern. The width of the kink and the resulting pattern can be tuned by the interplay between the magnetic field and gate electric fields.

id: 1203.2533
title: Magnetically amplified tunneling of the 3rd kind as a probe of minicharged particles
authors: Babette D?brich, Holger Gies, Norman Neitz, Felix Karbstein
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; some clarifications added, matches version published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 131802 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2533
abstract: We show that magnetic fields significantly enhance a new tunneling mechanism in quantum-field theories with photons coupling to fermionic minicharged particles. We propose a dedicated laboratory experiment of the light-shining-through-walls type that can explore a parameter regime comparable to and even beyond the best model-independent cosmological bounds. With present-day technology, such an experiment is particularly sensitive to minicharged particles with masses in and below the meV regime.

id: 1203.2561
title: Microscopic model of a phononic refrigerator
authors: Liliana Arrachea, Eduardo Mucciolo, Claudio Chamon, Rodrigo Capaz
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review B, vol. 86, Issue 12, id. 125424 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2561
abstract: We analyze a simple microscopic model to pump heat from a cold to a hot reservoir in a nanomechanical system. The model consists of a one-dimensional chain of masses and springs coupled to a back gate through which a time-dependent perturbation is applied. The action of the gate is to modulate the coupling of the masses to a substrate via additional springs that introduce a moving phononic barrier. We solve the problem numerically using non-equilibrium Green function techniques. For low driving frequencies and for sharp traveling barriers, we show that this microscopic model realizes a phonon refrigerator.

id: 1203.2634
title: Comment on `On quantum effects in spontaneous emission by a relativistic electron beam in an undulator' by G. Geloni, V. Kocharyan and E. Saldin (arXiv:1202.0691)
authors: G.R.M. Robb, R. Bonifacio
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2634
abstract: In arXiv:1202.0691, Geloni et al. criticise our recent work describing the spontaneous emission by a relativistic, undulating electron beam. In particular they claim that our prediction of a quantum regime in which evolution of the electron momentum distribution occurs as a sequential population of discrete momentum groups rather than in terms of a drift-diffusion process is unphysical and artificial. We show that the criticism of our model contained in arXiv:1202.0691 is unfounded.

id: 1203.2705
title: Algebras without Involution and Quantum Field Theories
authors: Glenn Eric Johnson
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2705
abstract: Explicit realizations of quantum field theory (QFT) are admitted by a revision to the Wightman axioms for the vacuum expectation values (VEV) of fields. The technical development of QFT is expanded beyond positive functionals on *-algebras while the physically motivated properties: Poincare covariance; positive energy; microcausality; and a Hilbert space realization of states, are preserved.

id: 1203.2714
title: Noncommutative Dirac oscillator in an external magnetic field
authors: Bhabani Prasad Mandal, Sumit Kumar Rai
comments: 10 pages, Np figs, communicated to journal. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0907.4544
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2714
abstract: We show that (2+1) dimensional noncommutative Dirac oscillator in an external magnetic field is mapped onto the same but with reduced angular frequency in absence of magnetic field. We construct the relativistic Landau levels by solving corresponding Dirac equation in (2+1) dimensional noncommutative phase space. We observe that lowest Landau levels are exactly same as in commutative space and independent of non-commutative parameter. All the Landau levels become independent of noncommutative parameter for a critical value of the magnetic field. Several other interesting features along with the relevance of such models in the study of atomic transitions in a radiation field have been discussed.

id: 1203.2792
title: Floquet analysis of the modulated two-mode Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Gentaro Watanabe, Harri M?kel?
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures; published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053624 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2792
abstract: We study the tunneling dynamics in a time-periodically modulated two-mode Bose-Hubbard model using Floquet theory. We consider situations where the system is in the self-trapping regime and either the tunneling amplitude, the interaction strength, or the energy difference between the modes is modulated. In the former two cases, the tunneling is enhanced in a wide range of modulation frequencies, while in the latter case the resonance is narrow. We explain this difference with the help of Floquet analysis. If the modulation amplitude is weak, the locations of the resonances can be found using the spectrum of the non-modulated Hamiltonian. Furthermore, we use Floquet analysis to explain the coherent destruction of tunneling (CDT) occurring in a large-amplitude modulated system. Finally, we present two ways to create a NOON state (a superposition of $N$ particles in mode 1 with zero particles in mode 2 and vice versa). One is based on a coherent oscillation caused by detuning from a partial CDT. The other makes use of an adiabatic variation of the modulation frequency. This results in a Landau-Zener type of transition between the ground state and a NOON-like state.

id: 1203.2829
title: Entanglement entropy in one-dimensional disordered interacting system: The role of localization
authors: Richard Berkovits
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 176803 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2829
abstract: The properties of the entanglement entropy (EE) in one-dimensional disordered interacting systems are studied. Anderson localization leaves a clear signature on the average EE, as it saturates on length scale exceeding the localization length. This is verified by numerically calculating the EE for an ensemble of disordered realizations using density matrix renormalization group (DMRG). A heuristic expression describing the dependence of the EE on the localization length, which takes into account finite size effects, is proposed. This is used to extract the localization length as function of the interaction strength. The localization length dependence on the interaction fits nicely with the expectations.

id: 1203.2884
title: Dynamic formation of Rydberg aggregates at off-resonant excitation
authors: M. G?rttner, K. P. Heeg, T. Gasenzer, J. Evers
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043410 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2884
abstract: The dynamics of a cloud of ultra-cold two-level atoms is studied at off-resonant laser driving to a Rydberg state. We find that resonant excitation channels lead to strongly peaked spatial correlations associated with the buildup of asymmetric excitation structures. These aggregates can extend over the entire ensemble volume, but are in general not localized relative to the system boundaries. The characteristic distances between neighboring excitations depend on the laser detuning and on the interaction potential. These properties lead to characteristic features in the spatial excitation density, the Mandel $Q$ parameter, and the total number of excitations. As an application an implementation of the three-atom CSWAP or Fredkin gate with Rydberg atoms is discussed. The gate not only exploits the Rydberg blockade, but also utilizes the special features of an asymmetric geometric arrangement of the three atoms. We show that continuous-wave off-resonant laser driving is sufficient to create the required spatial arrangement of atoms out of a homogeneous cloud.

id: 1203.2892
title: Generating function method and its applications to Quantum, Nuclear and the Classical Groups
authors: Mehdi Hage-Hassan
comments: 124 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2892
abstract: The generating function method that we had developing has various applications in physics and not only interress undergraduate students but also physicists. We solve simply difficult problems or unsolved commonly used in quantum, nuclear and group theory textbooks. We find simply: the generating function of the harmonic oscillator, the Feynman propagators of the oscillator and the oscillator in uniform magnetic field. We derive the invariants of SU(2) and the expressions of 3-j,6-j symbols. We find also the octonions or Hurwitz quadratic transformations. We show that the cross-product exist only in E3 and E7. We determine the {p} representation of hydrogen atom in three and n-dimensions. We generalize the Cramer's rule for the calculation of the rotational spectrum of the nucleus. We find the expression of the Hamiltonian in terms of quasi-bosons for study the collective vibration. We determine the basis and the expressions of 3-j symbols of SU (3) and SU(n).We find the Schr\"odinger equation from Hamilton-Jacobi formalism. We present these applications in independent chapters.

id: 1203.2945
title: A Class of Deductive Theories that cannot be Deterministic: Classical and Quantum Physics are not deterministic
authors: Iegor Reznikoff
comments: 4 pages (the first version has only 2); the case of classical physics is treated explicitly
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2945
abstract: The problem of the determinism of Quantum Mechanics has been a main one during the 20th century. At the same time, in the context of Logic and Set Theory, the importance of ancient paradoxes as well as the appearance of many new ones, has shed light on and deeply influenced the foundations of Mathematics and somehow of Physics. But, strangely, concerning Physics, a paradox which we call the Memory Paradox has remained yet undiscovered, despite its simplicity and remarkable consequences, mostly in Physics and surprisingly in classical Physics that appear to be non deterministic, contrary to the general belief since Newton, Laplace, etc.. The non determinism of Quantum Physics follows without any supplementary hypothesis. This paper extends a previous one (arXiv: 1203.2945v1 [physics.gen-ph] 13 Mar 2012).

id: 1203.3076
title: Supersymmetrical Separation of Variables for Scarf II Model: Partial Solvability
authors: M. V. Ioffe, E. V. Krupitskaya, D. N. Nishnianidze
comments: 6 p.p., accepted for publication in EPL
journal: Europhysics Letters 98 (2012) 10013
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3076
abstract: Recently, a new quantum model - two-dimensional generalization of the Scarf II - was completely solved analytically by SUSY method for the integer values of parameter. Now, the same integrable model, but with arbitrary values of parameter, will be studied by means of supersymmetrical intertwining relations. The Hamiltonian does not allow the conventional separation of variables, but the supercharge operator does allow, leading to the partial solvability of the model. This approach, which can be called as the first variant of SUSY-separation, together with shape invariance of the model, provides analytical calculation of the part of spectrum and corresponding wave functions (quasi-exact-solvability). The model is shown to obey two different variants of shape invariance which can be combined effectively in construction of energy levels and wave functions.

id: 1203.3086
title: Fermion Correlation Inequalities derived from G- and P-Conditions
authors: Volker Bach, Hans Konrad Kn?rr, Edmund Menge
comments: This article will appear in Documenta Mathematica (received: March 14, 2012)
journal: Documenta Math. 17 (2012) 451--481
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3086
abstract: It is shown in this paper that the G-Condition and the P-Condition from representability imply the fermion correlation estimate from [1] which, in turn, is known to yield a nontrivial bound on the accuracy of the Hartree-Fock approximation for large Coulomb systems.

id: 1203.3160
title: Collective state measurement of mesoscopic ensembles with single-atom resolution
authors: Hao Zhang, Robert McConnell, Senka ?uk, Qian Lin, Monika H. Schleier-Smith, Ian D. Leroux, Vladan Vuleti?
comments: 5 pages, 4 pdf figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3160
abstract: For mesoscopic ensembles containing 100 or more atoms we measure the total atom number and the number of atoms in a specific hyperfine state with single-atom resolution. The measurement detects the atom-induced shift of the resonance frequency of an optical cavity containing the ensemble. This work extends the range of cavity-based detection with single-atom resolution by more than an order of magnitude in atom number, and provides the readout capability necessary for Heisenberg-limited interferometry with atomic ensembles.

id: 1203.3178
title: A Fast fixed-point Quantum Search Algorithm by using Disentanglement and Measurement
authors: Ashish Mani, C. Patvardhan
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1102.2332
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3178
abstract: Generic quantum search algorithm searches for target entity in an unsorted database by repeatedly applying canonical Grover's quantum rotation transform to reach near the vicinity of the target entity. Thus, upon measurement, there is a high probability of finding the target entity. However, the number of times quantum rotation transform is to be applied for reaching near the vicinity of the target is a function of the number of target entities present in an unsorted database, which is generally unknown. A wrong estimate of the number of target entities can lead to overshooting or undershooting the targets, thus reducing the success probability. Some proposals have been made to overcome this limitation. These proposals either employ quantum counting to estimate the number of solutions or fixed-point schemes. This paper proposes a new scheme for stopping the application of quantum rotation transformation on reaching near the targets by disentanglement, measurement and subsequent processing to estimate the distance of the state vector from the target states. It ensures a success probability, which is greater than half for all practically significant ratios of the number of target entities to the total number of entities in a database. The search problem is trivial for remaining possible ratios. The proposed scheme is simpler than quantum counting and more efficient than the known fixed-point schemes. It has same order of computational complexity as canonical Grover`s search algorithm but is slow by a factor of two and requires two additional ancilla qubits.

id: 1203.3206
title: Vortex macroscopic superpositions in ultracold bosons in a double-well potential
authors: M.A. Garcia-March, Lincoln D. Carr
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91 033626 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3206
abstract: We study macroscopic superpositions in the orbital rather than the spatial degrees of freedom, in a three-dimensional double-well system. We show that the ensuing dynamics of $N$ interacting excited ultracold bosons, which in general requires at least eight single-particle modes and ${N+7 \choose N}$ Fock vectors, is described by a surprisingly small set of many-body states. An initial state with half the atoms in each well, and purposely excited in one of them, gives rise to the tunneling of axisymmetric and transverse vortex structures. We show that transverse vortices tunnel orders of magnitude faster than axisymmetric ones and are therefore more experimentally accessible. The tunneling process generates macroscopic superpositions only distinguishable by their orbital properties and within experimentally realistic times.

id: 1203.3254
title: Mean-field description of pairing effects, BKT physics, and superfluidity in 2D Bose gases
authors: Chih-Chun Chien, Jianhuang She, Fred Cooper
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 347, 192 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3254
abstract: We derive a mean-field description for two-dimensional (2D) interacting Bose gases at arbitrary temperatures. We find that genuine Bose-Einstein condensation with long-range coherence only survives at zero temperature. At finite temperatures, many-body pairing effects included in our mean-field theory introduce a finite amplitude for the pairing density, which results in a finite superfluid density. We incorporate Berenzinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless (BKT) physics into our model by considering the phase fluctuations of our pairing field. This then leads to the result that the superfluid phase is only stable below the BKT temperature due to these phase fluctuations. In the weakly interacting regime at low temperature we compare our theory to previous results from perturbative calculations, renormalization group calculations as well as Monte Carlo simulations. We present a finite-temperature phase diagram of 2D Bose gases. One signature of the finite amplitude of the pairing density field is a two-peak structure in the single-particle spectral function, resembling that of the pseudogap phase in 2D attractive Fermi gases.

id: 1203.3707
title: Excitation of heavy hydrogen-like ions by light atoms in relativistic collisions with large momentum transfers
authors: B. Najjari, A.B. Voitkiv
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3707
abstract: We present a theory for excitation of heavy hydrogen-like projectile-ions by light target-atoms in collisions where the momentum transfers to the atom are very large on the atomic scale. It is shown that in this process the electrons and the nucleus of the atom behave as (quasi-) free particles with respect to each other and that their motion is governed by the field of the nucleus of the ion. The effect of this field on the atomic particles can be crucial for the contribution to the excitation of the ion caused by the electrons of the atom. Due to comparatively very large nuclear mass, however, this field can be neglected in the calculation of the contribution to the excitation due to the nucleus of the atom.

id: 1203.3736
title: Long-range Rydberg-Rydberg interactions in calcium, strontium and ytterbium
authors: C. L. Vaillant, M. P. A. Jones, R. M. Potvliege
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 135004
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3736
abstract: Long-range dipole-dipole and quadrupole-quadrupole interactions between pairs of Rydberg atoms are calculated perturbatively for calcium, strontium and ytterbium within the Coulomb approximation. Quantum defects, obtained by fitting existing laser spectroscopic data, are provided for all $S$, $P$, $D$ and $F$ series of strontium and for the $^3P_2$ series of calcium. The results show qualitative differences with the alkali metal atoms, including isotropically attractive interactions of the strontium $^1S_0$ states and a greater rarity of F\"orster resonances. Only two such resonances are identified, both in triplet series of strontium. The angular dependence of the long range interaction is briefly discussed.

id: 1203.3785
title: Application of a time-convolutionless stochastic Schr?dinger equation to energy transport and thermal relaxation
authors: Robert Biele, Carsten Timm, Roberto D'Agosta
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, iopart class
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 26 395303 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3785
abstract: Quantum stochastic methods based on effective wave functions form a framework for investigating the generally non-Markovian dynamics of a quantum-mechanical system coupled to a bath. They promise to be computationally superior to the master-equation approach, which is numerically expensive for large dimensions of the Hilbert space. Here, we numerically investigate the suitability of a known stochastic Schr\"odinger equation that is local in time to give a description of thermal relaxation and energy transport. This stochastic Schr\"odinger equation can be solved with a moderate numerical cost, indeed comparable to that of a Markovian system, and reproduces the dynamics of a system evolving according to a general non-Markovian master equation. After verifying that it describes thermal relaxation correctly, we apply it for the first time to the energy transport in a spin chain. We also discuss a portable algorithm for the generation of the coloured noise associated with the numerical solution of the non-Markovian dynamics.

id: 1203.3817
title: Perturbative Analysis of Nonequilibrium Steady States in Quantum Systems
authors: Ayumu Sugita
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, for the proceedings of "Recent Advances in the Physics of Low-Dimensional Nanoscale Systems" (Tashkent, November 2011)
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3817
abstract: We study the nonequilibrium steady state (NESS) in a quantum system in contact with two heat baths at different temperatures. We use a time-independent perturbative expansion with respect to the coupling with the two heat baths to obtain the density matrix for the NESS. In particular, we show an explicit representation of the density matrix for the reflection symmetric and weakly nonequilibrium case. We also calculate the expectation value of the energy current and show that the Kubo formula holds in this case.

id: 1203.3818
title: Tensor Products of Random Unitary Matrices
authors: Tomasz Tkocz, Marek Smaczynski, Marek Kus, Ofer Zeitouni, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures
journal: Random Matrices: Theor. Appl., 1, 1250009 (2012)
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3818
abstract: Tensor products of M random unitary matrices of size N from the circular unitary ensemble are investigated. We show that the spectral statistics of the tensor product of random matrices becomes Poissonian if M=2, N become large or M become large and N=2.

id: 1203.3855
title: Polarization Response in InAs Quantum Dots: Theoretical Correlation between Composition and Electronic Properties
authors: Muhammad Usman, Vittorianna Tasco, Maria Teresa Todaro, Milena De Giorgi, Eoin P. O'Reilly, Gerhard Klimeck, Adriana Passaseo
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures; accepted for publication in IOP Nanotechnology journal
journal: Nanotechnology 23, 165202, (2012)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3855
abstract: III-V growth and surface conditions strongly influence the physical structure and resulting optical properties of self-assembled quantum dots (QDs). Beyond the design of a desired active optical wavelength, the polarization response of QDs is of particular interest for optical communications and quantum information science. Previous theoretical studies based on a pure InAs QD model failed to reproduce experimentally observed polarization properties. In this work, multi-million atom simulations are performed to understand the correlation between chemical composition and polarization properties of QDs. A systematic analysis of QD structural parameters leads us to propose a two layer composition model, mimicking In segregation and In-Ga intermixing effects. This model, consistent with mostly accepted compositional findings, allows to accurately fit the experimental PL spectra. The detailed study of QD morphology parameters presented here serves as a tool for using growth dynamics to engineer the strain field inside and around the QD structures, allowing tuning of the polarization response.

id: 1203.3858
title: Talbot Effect with Matter Waves
authors: Farhan Saif
comments: Published in the Proceedings of 'NUST Conference on Applications and Methods of Physics 2011', pp 1-8, Ed. A. Qadir, R. Khalid, and F. Saif
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3858
abstract: Talbot effect in the space-time evolution of matter waves is analyzed and shown that the matter waves at relativistic and non-relativistic velocities exhibit coherence beyond the grating and display Talbot self-imaging. The grating is realized by considering equidistant narrowly peaked coherent probability distributions at the onset. Theoretical frame work is based on a quantum particle at relativistic and non-relativistic velocities in a one dimensional box. The matter waves, in their evolution, display Talbot self-imaging and fractional self-imaging as restructuring, respectively, at Talbot length and fractional Talbot lengths.

id: 1203.3888
title: Accurate ab initio spin densities
authors: Katharina Boguslawski, Konrad H. Marti, ?rs Legeza, Markus Reiher
comments: 37 pages, 13 figures
journal: J. Chem. Theory Comput., 2012, 8 (6), pp 1970-1982
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3888
abstract: We present an approach for the calculation of spin density distributions for molecules that require very large active spaces for a qualitatively correct description of their electronic structure. Our approach is based on the density-matrix renormalization group (DMRG) algorithm to calculate the spin density matrix elements as basic quantity for the spatially resolved spin density distribution. The spin density matrix elements are directly determined from the second-quantized elementary operators optimized by the DMRG algorithm. As an analytic convergence criterion for the spin density distribution, we employ our recently developed sampling-reconstruction scheme [J. Chem. Phys. 2011, 134, 224101] to build an accurate complete-active-space configuration-interaction (CASCI) wave function from the optimized matrix product states. The spin density matrix elements can then also be determined as an expectation value employing the reconstructed wave function expansion. Furthermore, the explicit reconstruction of a CASCI-type wave function provides insights into chemically interesting features of the molecule under study such as the distribution of $\alpha$- and $\beta$-electrons in terms of Slater determinants, CI coefficients, and natural orbitals. The methodology is applied to an iron nitrosyl complex which we have identified as a challenging system for standard approaches [J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2011, 7, 2740].

id: 1203.3922
title: Laser induced electron diffraction: a tool for molecular orbital imaging
authors: Michel Peters, Tung Nguyen-Dang, Eric Charron, Arne Keller, Osman Atabek
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 85, 5 (2012) 053417
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3922
abstract: We explore the laser-induced ionization dynamics of N2 and CO2 molecules subjected to a few-cycle, linearly polarized, 800\,nm laser pulse using effective two-dimensional single active electron time-dependent quantum simulations. We show that the electron recollision process taking place after an initial tunnel ionization stage results in quantum interference patterns in the energy resolved photo-electron signals. If the molecule is initially aligned perpendicular to the field polarization, the position and relative heights of the associated fringes can be related to the molecular geometrical and orbital structure, using a simple inversion algorithm which takes into account the symmetry of the initial molecular orbital from which the ionized electron is produced. We show that it is possible to extract inter-atomic distances in the molecule from an averaged photon-electron signal with an accuracy of a few percents.

id: 1203.3936
title: Generating functions for generalized binomial distributions
authors: H. Bergeron, E. M. F. Curado, J. P. Gazeau, Ligia M. C. S. Rodrigues
comments: PDFLaTex, 27 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3936
abstract: In a recent article a generalization of the binomial distribution associated with a sequence of positive numbers was examined. The analysis of the nonnegativeness of the formal expressions was a key-point to allow to give them a statistical interpretation in terms of probabilities. In this article we present an approach based on generating functions that solves the previous difficulties: the constraints of nonnegativeness are automatically fulfilled, a complete characterization in terms of generating functions is given and a large number of analytical examples becomes available.

id: 1203.3974
title: Realigning random states
authors: Guillaume Aubrun, Ion Nechita
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 102210 (2012)
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3974
abstract: We study how the realignment criterion (also called computable cross-norm criterion) succeeds asymptotically in detecting whether random states are separable or entangled. We consider random states on $\C^d \otimes \C^d$ obtained by partial tracing a Haar-distributed random pure state on $\C^d \otimes \C^d \otimes \C^s$ over an ancilla space $\C^s$. We show that, for large $d$, the realignment criterion typically detects entanglement if and only if $s \leq (8/3\pi)^2 d^2$. In this sense, the realignment criterion is asymptotically weaker than the partial transposition criterion.

id: 1203.3978
title: Computational Methodologies and Physical Insights into Electronic Energy Transfer in Photosynthetic Light-Harvesting Complexes
authors: Leonardo A. Pachon, Paul Brumer
comments: Invited Perspective Article for Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys
journal: Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 14, 10094 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.3978
abstract: We examine computational techniques and methodologies currently in use to explore electronic excitation energy transfer in the context of light-harvesting complexes in photosynthetic antenna systems, and comment on some new insights into the underlying physics. Advantages and pitfalls of these methodologies are discussed, as are some physical insights into the photosynthetic dynamics. By combining results from molecular modelling of the complexes (structural description) with an effective non-equilibrium statistical description (time evolution), we identify some general features, regardless of the particular distribution in the protein scaffold, that are central to light-harvesting dynamics and, that could ultimately be related to the high efficiency of the overall process. Based on these general common features, some possible new directions in the field are discussed.

id: 1203.4149
title: New rational extensions of solvable potentials with finite bound state spectrum
authors: Yves Grandati
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4149
abstract: Using the disconjugacy properties of the Schr\"odinger equation, it is possible to develop a new type of generalized SUSY QM partnership which allows to generate new solvable rational extensions for translationally shape invariant potentials having a finite bound state spectrum. For this we prolong the dispersion relation relating the energy to the quantum number out of the physical domain until a disconjugacy sector. The prolonged excited states Riccati-Schr\"odinger (RS) functions are used to build Darboux-B\"acklund transforms which give regular isospectral extensions of the initial potential. We give the spectra of these extensions in terms of new orthogonal polynomials and study their shape invariance properties.

id: 1203.4172
title: Anisotropy induced Feshbach resonances in a quantum dipolar gas of magnetic atoms
authors: Alexander Petrov, Eite Tiesinga, Svetlana Kotochigova
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4172
abstract: We explore the anisotropic nature of Feshbach resonances in the collision between ultracold magnetic submerged-shell dysprosium atoms, which can only occur due to couplings to rotating bound states. This is in contrast to well-studied alkali-metal atom collisions, where most Feshbach resonances are hyperfine induced and due to rotation-less bound states. Our novel first-principle coupled-channel calculation of the collisions between open-4f-shell spin-polarized bosonic dysprosium reveals a striking correlation between the anisotropy due to magnetic dipole-dipole and electrostatic interactions and the Feshbach spectrum as a function of an external magnetic field. Over a 20 mT magnetic field range we predict about a dozen Feshbach resonances and show that the resonance locations are exquisitely sensitive to the dysprosium isotope.

id: 1203.4241
title: Anderson Localization in Disordered Vibrating Rods
authors: J. Flores, L. Guti¨¦rrez, R. A. M¨¦ndez-S¨¢nchez, G. Monsivais, P. Mora, A. Morales
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4241
abstract: We study, both experimentally and numerically, the Anderson localization phenomenon in torsional waves of a disordered elastic rod, which consists of a cylinder with randomly spaced notches. We find that the normal-mode wave amplitudes are exponentially localized as occurs in disordered solids. The localization length is measured using these wave amplitudes and it is shown to decrease as a function of frequency. The normal-mode spectrum is also measured as well as computed, so its level statistics can be analyzed. Fitting the nearest-neighbor spacing distribution a level repulsion parameter is defined that also varies with frequency. The localization length can then be expressed as a function of the repulsion parameter. There exists a range in which the localization length is a linear function of the repulsion parameter, which is consistent with Random Matrix Theory. However, at low values of the repulsion parameter the linear dependence does not hold.

id: 1203.4341
title: Rydberg crystallization detection by statistical means
authors: David Breyel, Thomas L. Schmidt, Andreas Komnik
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023405 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4341
abstract: We investigate an ensemble of atoms which can be excited into a Rydberg state. Using a disordered quantum Ising model, we perform a numerical simulation of the experimental procedure and calculate the probability distribution function $P(M)$ to create a certain number of Rydberg atoms $M$, as well as their pair correlation function. Using the latter, we identify the critical interaction strength above which the system undergoes a phase transition to a Rydberg crystal. We then show that this phase transition can be detected using $P(M)$ alone.

id: 1203.4402
title: Multi-orbital bosons in bipartite optical lattices
authors: Jani-Petri Martikainen, Jonas Larson
comments: Minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023611 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4402
abstract: We study interacting bosons in a two dimensional bipartite optical lattice. By focusing on the regime where the first three excited bands are nearly degenerate we derive a three orbital tight-binding model which captures the most relevant features of the bandstructure. In addition, we also derive a corresponding generalized Bose-Hubbard model and solve it numerically under different situations, both with and without a confining trap. It is especially found that the hybridization between sublattices can strongly influence the phase diagrams and in a trap enable even appearances of condensed phases intersecting the same Mott insulating plateaus.

id: 1203.4441
title: Novel Bose-Einstein Interference in the Passage of a Fast Particle in a Dense Medium
authors: Cheuk-Yin Wong
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, invited talk presented at the 35th Symposium on Nuclear Physics, Cocoyoc, Mexico, January 3, 2012, to be published in IOP Conference Series
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 387, 012009 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4441
abstract: When an energetic particle collides coherently with many medium particles at high energies, the Bose-Einstein symmetry with respect to the interchange of the exchanged virtual bosons leads to a destructive interference of the Feynman amplitudes in most regions of the phase space but a constructive interference in some other regions of the phase space. As a consequence, the recoiling medium particles have a tendency to come out collectively along the direction of the incident fast particle, each carrying a substantial fraction of the incident longitudinal momentum. Such an interference appearing as collective recoils of scatterers along the incident particle direction may have been observed in angular correlations of hadrons associated with a high-$p_T$ trigger in high-energy AuAu collisions at RHIC.

id: 1203.4539
title: Poincar¨¦ Sphere and Decoherence Problems
authors: Y. S. Kim
comments: LaTex 21 pages with 2 figures, based on an invited talk presented at the Fedorov Memorial Symposium: International Conference "Spins and Photonic Beams at Interface," dedicated to the 100th anniversary of F.I.Fedorov (Minsk, Belarus, 2011); minor corrections; more references added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4539
abstract: Henri Poincar\'e formulated the mathematics of the Lorentz transformations, known as the Poincar\'e group. He also formulated the Poincar\'e sphere for polarization optics. It is shown that these two mathematical instruments can be combined into one mathematical device which can address the internal space-time symmetries of elementary particles, decoherence problems in polarization optics, entropy problems, and Feynman's rest of the universe.

id: 1203.4556
title: On the Consistency of the Solutions of the Space Fractional Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Selcuk S. Bayin
comments: 
journal: JMP vol.53, no4, 042105 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4556
abstract: Recently it was pointed out that the solutions found in literature for the space fractional Schr\"odinger equation in a piecewise manner are wrong, except the case with the delta potential. We reanalyze this problem and show that an exact and a proper treatment of the relevant integral proves otherwise. We also discuss effective potential approach and present a free particle solution for the space and time fractional Schr\"odinger equation in general coordinates in terms of Fox's H-functions.

id: 1203.4565
title: The quantum phases of matter
authors: Subir Sachdev
comments: 35 pages, 21 figures; Rapporteur presentation at the 25th Solvay Conference on Physics, "The Theory of the Quantum World", Brussels, Oct 2011; (v2+v3+v4) expanded holographic discussion and referencing
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4565
abstract: I present a selective survey of the phases of quantum matter with varieties of many-particle quantum entanglement. I classify the phases as gapped, conformal, or compressible quantum matter. Gapped quantum matter is illustrated by a simple discussion of the Z_2 spin liquid, and connections are made to topological field theories. I discuss how conformal matter is realized at quantum critical points of realistic lattice models, and make connections to a number of experimental systems. Recent progress in our understanding of compressible quantum phases which are not Fermi liquids is summarized. Finally, I discuss how the strongly-coupled phases of quantum matter may be described by gauge-gravity duality. The structure of the large N limit of SU(N) gauge theory, coupled to adjoint fermion matter at non-zero density, suggests aspects of gravitational duals of compressible quantum matter.

id: 1203.4638
title: Viscosity of a nucleonic fluid
authors: Aram Z. Mekjian
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1009.5951
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4638
abstract: The viscosity of nucleonic matter is studied both classically and in a quantum mechanical description. The collisions between particles are modeled as hard sphere scattering as a baseline for comparison and as scattering from an attractive square well potential. Properties associated with the unitary limit are developed which are shown to be approximately realized for a system of neutrons. The issue of near perfect fluid behavior of neutron matter is remarked on. Using some results from hard sphere molecular dynamics studies near perfect fluid behavior is discussed further.

id: 1203.4658
title: Advantages of Mass-Imbalanced Ultracold Fermionic Mixtures for Approaching Quantum Magnetism in Optical Lattices
authors: Andrii Sotnikov, Daniel Cocks, Walter Hofstetter
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 065301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4658
abstract: We study magnetic phases of two-component mixtures of ultracold fermions with repulsive interactions in optical lattices in the presence of hopping imbalance. Our analysis is based on dynamical mean-field theory (DMFT) and its real-space generalization at finite temperature. We study the temperature dependence of the transition into the ordered state as a function of the interaction strength and the imbalance parameter in two and three spatial dimensions. We show that below the critical temperature for N\'{e}el order mass-imbalanced mixtures also exhibit a charge-density wave, which provides a directly observable signature of the ordered state. For the trapped system, we compare our results obtained by real-space DMFT to a local-density approximation. We calculate the entropy for a wide range of parameters and identify regions, in which mass-imbalanced mixtures could have clear advantages over balanced ones for the purpose of obtaining and detecting quantum magnetism.

id: 1203.4703
title: Translation of Time-Reversal Violation in the Neutral K-Meson System into a Table-Top Mechanical System
authors: Andreas Reiser, Klaus R. Schubert, Juergen Stiewe
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, 1 external url with video clips
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4703
abstract: Weak interactions break time-reversal (T) symmetry in the two-state system of neutral K mesons. We present and discuss a two-state mechanical system, a Foucault-type pendulum on a rotating table, for a full representation of K0 K0bar transitions by the pendulum motions including T violation. The pendulum moves with two different oscillation frequencies and two different magnetic dampings. Its equation of motion is identical with the differential equation for the real part of the CPT-symmetric K-meson wave function. The pendulum is able to represent microscopic CP and T violation with CPT symmetry owing to the macroscopic Coriolis force which breaks the symmetry under reversal-of-motion. Video clips of the pendulum motions are shown as supplementary material.

id: 1203.4774
title: Thermal entanglement between non-nearest-neighbor spins on fractal lattices
authors: Yu-Liang Xu, Lu-Shun Wang, Xiang-Mu Kong
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4774
abstract: We investigate thermal entanglement between two non-nearest-neighbor sites in ferromagnetic Heisenberg chain and on fractal lattices by means of the decimation renormalization-group (RG) method. It is found that the entanglement decreases with increasing temperature and it disappears beyond a critical value T_{c}. Thermal entanglement at a certain temperature first increases with the increase of the anisotropy parameter {\Delta} and then decreases sharply to zero when {\Delta} is close to the isotropic point. We also show how the entanglement evolves as the size of the system L becomes large via the RG method. As L increases, for the spin chain and Koch curve the entanglement between two terminal spins is fragile and vanishes when L\geq17, but for two kinds of diamond-type hierarchical (DH) lattices the entanglement is rather robust and can exist even when L becomes very large. Our result indicates that the special fractal structure can affect the change of entanglement with system size.

id: 1203.4803
title: Sharp tunneling peaks in a parametric oscillator: quantum resonances missing in the rotating wave approximation
authors: V. Peano, M. Marthaler, M. I. Dykman
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109. 090401 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4803
abstract: We describe a new mechanism of tunneling between period-two vibrational states of a weakly nonlinear parametrically modulated oscillator. The tunneling results from resonant transitions induced by the fast oscillating terms conventionally disregarded in the rotating wave approximation (RWA). The tunneling amplitude displays resonant peaks as a function of the modulation frequency; near the maxima it is exponentially larger than the RWA tunneling amplitude.

id: 1203.4816
title: Resonating valence bond states in the PEPS formalism
authors: Norbert Schuch, Didier Poilblanc, J. Ignacio Cirac, David Perez-Garcia
comments: 11+9 pages, 28 figures. v2: More numerical results, and a few minor improvements. v3: Accepted version (minor changes relative to v2), Journal-Ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 115108 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4816
abstract: We study resonating valence bond (RVB) states in the Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS) formalism. Based on symmetries in the PEPS description, we establish relations between the toric code state, the orthogonal dimer state, and the SU(2) singlet RVB state on the kagome lattice: We prove the equivalence of toric code and dimer state, and devise an interpolation between the dimer state and the RVB state. This interpolation corresponds to a continuous path in Hamiltonian space, proving that the RVB state is the four-fold degenerate ground state of a local Hamiltonian on the (finite) kagome lattice. We investigate this interpolation using numerical PEPS methods, studying the decay of correlation functions, the change of overlap, and the entanglement spectrum, none of which exhibits signs of a phase transition.

id: 1203.4838
title: Model for the Fractional Quantum Hall Effect problem
authors: M.I. Dyakonov
comments: 4 pages, based on a talk at the International workshop on electronic crystals, Saint Flour, France
journal: J. Phys. IV France, vol. 12, Pr9-373 (2002)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4838
abstract: A simple one-dimensional model is proposed, in which N spinless repulsively interacting fermions occupy M>N degenerate states. It is argued that the energy spectrum and the wavefunctions of this system strongly resemble the spectrum and wavefunctions of 2D electrons in the lowest Landau level (the problem of the Fractional Quantum Hall Effect). In particular, Laughlin-type wavefunctions describe ground states at filling factors v = N/M = 1(2m+1). Within this model the complimentary wavefunction for v = 1-1/(2m + 1) is found explicitly and extremely simple ground state wavefunctions for arbitrary odd-denominator filling factors are proposed.

id: 1203.4843
title: A Monolithic Filter Cavity for Experiments in Quantum Optics
authors: Pantita Palittapongarnpim, Andrew MacRae, A.I. Lvovsky
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Review of Scientific Instruments 83, 066101 (2012)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4843
abstract: By applying a high-reflectivity dielectric coating on both sides of a commercial plano-convex lens, we produce a stable monolithic Fabry-Perot cavity suitable for use as a narrow band filter in quantum optics experiments. The resonant frequency is selected by means of thermal expansion. Owing to the long term mechanical stability, no optical locking techniques are required. We characterize the cavity performance as an optical filter, obtaining a 45 dB suppression of unwanted modes while maintaining a transmission of 60%.

id: 1203.4922
title: Leggett-Garg inequalities for the statistics of electron transport
authors: Clive Emary
comments: 5 pages; 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 085418 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4922
abstract: We derive a set of Leggett-Garg inequalities (temporal Bell's inequalities) for the moment generating function of charge transferred through a conductor. Violation of these inequalities demonstrates the absence of a macroscopic-real description of the transport process. We show how these inequalities can be violated by quantum-mechanical systems and consider transport through normal and superconducting single-electron transistors as examples.

id: 1203.4944
title: Dynamic screening of a localized hole during photoemission from a metal cluster
authors: N. E. Koval, D. S¨¢nchez-Portal, A. G. Borisov, R. D¨ªez Mui?o
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nanoscale Research Letters 2012, 7:447
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4944
abstract: Recent advances in attosecond spectroscopy techniques have fueled the interest in the theoretical description of electronic processes taking place in the subfemtosecond time scale. Here we study the coupled dynamic screening of a localized hole and a photoelectron emitted from a metal cluster using a semi-classical model. Electron density dynamics in the cluster is calculated with Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory and the motion of the photoemitted electron is described classically. We show that the dynamic screening of the hole by the cluster electrons affects the motion of the photoemitted electron. At the very beginning of its trajectory, the photoemitted electron interacts with the cluster electrons that pile up to screen the hole. Within our model, this gives rise to a significant reduction of the energy lost by the photoelectron. Thus, this is a velocity dependent effect that should be accounted for when calculating the average losses suffered by photoemitted electrons in metals.

id: 1203.4986
title: Magnetically amplified light-shining-through-walls via virtual minicharged particles
authors: Babette D?brich, Holger Gies, Norman Neitz, Felix Karbstein
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures; some clarifications added, matches journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 025022 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.4986
abstract: We show that magnetic fields have the potential to significantly enhance a recently proposed light-shining-through-walls scenario in quantum-field theories with photons coupling to minicharged particles. Suggesting a dedicated laboratory experiment, we demonstrate that this particular tunneling scenario could provide access to a parameter regime competitive with the currently best direct laboratory limits on minicharged fermions below the $\mathrm{meV}$ regime. With present day technology, such an experiment has the potential to even overcome the best model-independent cosmological bounds on minicharged fermions with masses below $\mathcal{O} (10^{-4}) \mathrm{eV}$.

id: 1203.5041
title: Universal Quantum Computing with Spin and Valley
authors: Niklas Rohling, Guido Burkard
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5041
abstract: We investigate a two-electron double quantum dot with both spin and valley degrees of freedom as they occur in graphene, carbon nanotubes, or silicon, and regard the 16-dimensional space with one electron per dot as a four-qubit logic space. In the spin-only case, it is well known that the exchange coupling between the dots combined with arbitrary single-qubit operations is sufficient for universal quantum computation. The presence of the valley degeneracy in the electronic band structure alters the form of the exchange coupling and in general leads to spin-valley entanglement. Here, we show that universal quantum computation can still be performed by exchange interaction and single-qubit gates in the presence of the additional (valley) degree of freedom. We present an explicit pulse sequence for a spin-only controlled-NOT consisting of the generalized exchange coupling and single-electron spin and valley rotations. We also propose state preparations and projective measurements with the use of adiabatic transitions between states with (1,1) and (0,2) charge distributions similar to the spin-only case, but with the additional requirement of controlling the spin and the valley Zeeman energies by an external magnetic field. Finally, we demonstrate a universal two-qubit gate between a spin and a valley qubit, allowing universal gate operations on the combined spin and valley quantum register.

id: 1203.5056
title: The fundamental role of quantized vibrations in coherent light harvesting by cryptophyte algae
authors: Avinash Kolli, Edward J. O'Reilly, Gregory D. Scholes, Alexandra Olaya-Castro
comments: 16 Pages, 10 figures. Version to appear in The Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 174109 (2012)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5056
abstract: The influence of fast vibrations on energy transfer and conversion in natural molecular aggregates is an issue of central interest. This article shows the important role of high-energy quantized vibrations and their non-equilibrium dynamics for energy transfer in photosynthetic systems with highly localized excitonic states. We consider the cryptophyte antennae protein phycoerythrin 545 and show that coupling to quantized vibrations which are quasi-resonant with excitonic transitions is fundamental for biological function as it generates non-cascaded transport with rapid and wider spatial distribution of excitation energy. Our work also indicates that the non-equilibrium dynamics of such vibrations can manifest itself in ultrafast beating of both excitonic populations and coherences at room temperature, with time scales in agreement with those reported in experiments. Moreover, we show that mechanisms supporting coherent excitonic dynamics assist coupling to selected modes that channel energy to preferential sites in the complex. We therefore argue that, in the presence of strong coupling between electronic excitations and quantized vibrations, a concrete and important advantage of quantum coherent dynamics is precisely to tune resonances that promote fast and effective energy distribution.

id: 1203.5072
title: Coherence and Decoherence in Biological Systems: Principles of Noise Assisted Transport and the Origin of Long-lived Coherences
authors: A.W. Chin, S.F. Huelga, M.B. Plenio
comments: Paper delivered at the Royal Society Discussion Meeting "Quantum-coherent energy transfer: implications for biology and new energy technologies", 27 - 28 April 2011 at The Kavli Royal Society International Centre, Buckinghamshire, UK. Accepted for publication in Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 370, 3638-3657 (2012)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5072
abstract: The quantum dynamics of transport networks in the presence of noisy environments have recently received renewed attention with the discovery of long-lived coherences in different photosynthetic complexes. This experimental evidence has raised two fundamental questions: Firstly, what are the mechanisms supporting long-lived coherences and secondly, how can we assess the possible functional role that the interplay of noise and quantum coherence might play in the seemingly optimal operation of biological systems under natural conditions? Here we review recent results, illuminate them at the hand of two paradigmatic systems, the Fenna-Matthew-Olson (FMO) complex and the light harvesting complex LHII, and present new progress on both questions. In particular we introduce the concept of the phonon antennae and discuss the possible microscopic origin or long-lived electronic coherences.

id: 1203.5094
title: Interaction-induced conducting-nonconducting transition of ultra-cold atoms in 1D optical lattices
authors: Chih-Chun Chien, Daniel Gruss, Massimiliano Di Ventra, Michael Zwolak
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 063026
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5094
abstract: The study of time-dependent, many-body transport phenomena is increasingly within reach of ultra-cold atom experiments. We show that the introduction of spatially inhomogeneous interactions, e.g., generated by optically-controlled collisions, induce negative differential conductance in the transport of atoms in 1D optical lattices. Specifically, we simulate the dynamics of interacting fermionic atoms via a micro-canonical transport formalism within both mean-field and a higher-order approximation, as well as with time-dependent DMRG. For weakly repulsive interactions, a quasi steady-state atomic current develops that is similar to the situation occurring for electronic systems subject to an external voltage bias. At the mean-field level, we find that this atomic current is robust against the details of how the interaction is switched on. Further, a conducting-to-nonconducting transition exists when the interaction imbalance exceeds some threshold from both our approximate and time-dependent DMRG simulations. This transition is preceded by the atomic equivalent of negative differential conductivity observed in transport across solid-state structures.

id: 1203.5108
title: Demonstration of a state-insensitive, compensated nanofiber trap
authors: A. Goban, K. S. Choi, D. J. Alton, D. Ding, C. Lacro?te, M. Pototschnig, T. Thiele, N. P. Stern, H. J. Kimble
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 033603 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5108
abstract: We report the experimental realization of an optical trap that localizes single Cs atoms ~215 nm from surface of a dielectric nanofiber. By operating at magic wavelengths for pairs of counter-propagating red- and blue-detuned trapping beams, differential scalar light shifts are eliminated, and vector shifts are suppressed by ~250. We thereby measure an absorption linewidth \Gamma/2\pi = 5.7 \pm 0.1 MHz for the Cs 6S1/2,F=4 - 6P3/2,F'=5 transition, where \Gamma/2\pi = 5.2 MHz in free space. Optical depth d~66 is observed, corresponding to an optical depth per atom d_1~0.08. These advances provide an important capability for the implementation of functional quantum optical networks and precision atomic spectroscopy near dielectric surfaces.

id: 1203.5120
title: Pair density waves and vortices in an elongated two-component Fermi gas
authors: Ran Wei, Erich J. Mueller
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 245301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5120
abstract: We study the vortex structures of a two-component Fermi gas experiencing a uniform effective magnetic field in an anisotropic trap that interpolates between quasi-one dimensional (1D) and quasi-two dimensional (2D). At a fixed chemical potential, reducing the anisotropy (or equivalently increasing the attractive interactions or increasing the magnetic field) leads to instabilities towards pair density waves, and vortex lattices. Reducing the chemical potential stabilizes the system. We calculate the phase diagram, and explore the density and pair density. The structures are similar to those predicted for superfluid Bose gases. We further calculate the paired fraction, showing how it depends on chemical potential and anisotropy.

id: 1203.5167
title: Study of wave chaos in a randomly-inhomogeneous oceanic acoustic waveguide: spectral analysis of the finite-range evolution operator
authors: D. V. Makarov, L. E. Kon'kov, M. Yu. Uleysky, P. S. Petrov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics (physics.ao-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5167
abstract: The proplem of sound propagation in an oceanic waveguide is considered. Scattering on random inhomogeneity of the waveguide leads to wave chaos. Chaos reveals itself in spectral properties of the finite-range evolution operator (FREO). FREO describes transformation of a wavefield in course of propagation along a finite segment of a waveguide. We study transition to chaos by tracking variations in spectral statistics with increasing length of the segment. Analysis of the FREO is accompanied with ray calculations using the one-step Poincar\'e map which is the classical counterpart of the FREO. Underwater sound channel in the Sea of Japan is taken for an example. Several methods of spectral analysis are utilized. In particular, we approximate level spacing statistics by means of the Berry-Robnik and Brody distributions, explore the spectrum using the procedure elaborated by A. Relano with coworkers (Relano et al, Phys. Rev. Lett., 2002; Relano, Phys. Rev. Lett., 2008), and analyze modal expansions of the eigenfunctions. We show that the analysis of FREO eigenfunctions is more informative than the analysis of eigenvalue statistics. It is found that near-axial sound propagation in the Sea of Japan preserves stability even over distances of hundreds kilometers. This phenomenon is associated with the presence of a shearless torus in the classical phase space. Increasing of acoustic wavelength degrades scattering, resulting in recovery of localization near periodic orbits of the one-step Poincar\'e map. Relying upon the formal analogy between wave and quantum chaos, we suggest that the concept of FREO, supported by classical calculations via the one-step Poincar\'e map, can be efficiently applied for studying chaos-induced decoherence in quantum systems.

id: 1203.5260
title: Quality factors of deformed dielectric cavities
authors: Michael M. White, Stephen C. Creagh
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5260
abstract: An analysis is provided of the degradation that arises in the quality factor of a whispering gallery mode when a circular or spherical dielectric cavity is deformed. The large quality factors of such resonators are important to their use in applications such as sensors, wavelength filters or lasers. Yet a straightforward analysis of the effect of shape deformation on quality factors cannot given because the underlying complex ray data demanded by a standard eikonal approximation frequently does not exist. In this paper we exploit an approach that has been successfully used elsewhere to describe the strong directional emission of such systems, based on a perturbative treatment of the relevant complex ray families. Applicable when the radial perturbation is formally of the order of a wavelength, the resulting approximation successfully describes changes to the quality factor using the ray geometry in a neighbourhood of a discrete set of escaping rays guiding the directions of maximum emitted intensity.

id: 1203.5287
title: Spin dynamics in a strongly driven system: very slow Rabi oscillations
authors: D. V. Khomitsky, L. V. Gulyaev, E. Ya. Sherman
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review B V.85 p.125312 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5287
abstract: We consider joint effects of tunneling and spin-orbit coupling on driven by electric field spin dynamics in a double quantum dot with a multi-level resonance scenario. We demonstrate that tunneling plays the crucial role in the formation of the Rabi-like spin-flip transitions. In contrast to the linear behavior for weak electric fields, the spin flip rate becomes much smaller than expected for the two-level model and shows oscillating dependence on the driving field amplitude in stronger fields. In addition, the full spin flip is very difficult to achieve in a multi-level resonant system. These two effects have a similarity with the Zeno effect of slowing down the dynamics of an observable by its measurement. As a result, spin manipulation by electric field becomes much less efficient than expected.

id: 1203.5310
title: The Symplectic Camel and Quantum Universal Invariants: the Angel of Geometry vs. the Demon of Algebra
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson
comments: Submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5310
abstract: A positive definite symmetric matrix {\sigma} qualifies as a quantum mechanical covariance matrix if and only if {\sigma}+(1/2)i\hbar{\Omega}\geq0 where {\Omega} is the standard symplectic matrix. This well-known condition is a strong version of the uncertainty principle, which can be reinterpreted in terms of the topological notion of symplectic capacity, closely related to Gromov's non-squeezing theorem. We show that a recent refinement of the latter leads to a new class of geometric invariants. These are the volumes of the orthogonal projections of the covariance ellipsoid on symplectic subspaces of the phase space. We compare these geometric invariants to the algebraic "universal quantum invariants" of Dodonov and Serafini.

id: 1203.5357
title: Dynamics of parametric matter wave amplification
authors: Robert B¨¹cker, Ulrich Hohenester, Tarik Berrada, Sandrine van Frank, Aur¨¦lien Perrin, Stephanie Manz, Thomas Betz, Julian Grond, Thorsten Schumm, J?rg Schmiedmayer
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013638 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5357
abstract: We develop a model for parametric amplification, based on a density matrix approach, which naturally accounts for the peculiarities arising for matter waves: significant depletion and explicit time-dependence of the source state population, long interaction times, and spatial dynamics of the amplified modes. We apply our model to explain the details in an experimental study on twin-atom beam emission from a one-dimensional degenerate Bose gas.

id: 1203.5359
title: Spin squeezing, entanglement and quantum metrology with Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Christian Gross
comments: Phd tutorial, 23 pages, 17 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 103001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5359
abstract: Squeezed states, a special kind of entangled states, are known as a useful resource for quantum metrology. In interferometric sensors they allow to overcome the "classical" projection noise limit stemming from the independent nature of the individual photons or atoms within the interferometer. Motivated by the potential impact on metrology as wells as by fundamental questions in the context of entanglement, a lot of theoretical and experimental effort has been made to study squeezed states. The first squeezed states useful for quantum enhanced metrology have been proposed and generated in quantum optics, where the squeezed variables are the coherences of the light field. In this tutorial we focus on spin squeezing in atomic systems. We give an introduction to its concepts and discuss its generation in Bose-Einstein condensates. We discuss in detail the experimental requirements necessary for the generation and direct detection of coherent spin squeezing. Two exemplary experiments demonstrating adiabatically prepared spin squeezing based on motional degrees of freedom and diabatically realized spin squeezing based on internal hyperfine degrees of freedom are discussed.

id: 1203.5368
title: Valley blockade quantum switching in Silicon nanostructures
authors: Enrico Prati
comments: 4 Figures
journal: J. Nanosci. Nanotechnol. 11, 8522-8526 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5368
abstract: In analogy to the Coulomb and the Pauli spin blockade, based on the electrostatic repulsion and the Pauli exclusion principle respectively, the concept of valley blockade in Silicon nanostructures is explored. The valley parity operator is defined. Valley blockade is determined by the parity conservation of valley composition eigenvectors in quantum transport. A Silicon quantum changeover switch based on a triple of donor quantum dots capable to separate electrons having opposite valley parity by virtue of the valley parity conservation is proposed. The quantum changeover switch represents a novel kind of hybrid quantum based classical logic device.

id: 1203.5393
title: The influence of chiral spherical particles on the radiation of optically active molecules
authors: Dmitry Guzatov, Vasily Klimov
comments: 29 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5393
abstract: In the framework of the perturbation theory of the nonrelativistic quantum electrodynamics, a theory of spontaneous emission of a chiral molecule located near a chiral (bi-isotropic) spherical particle is developed. It is shown that the structure of photons in the presence of chiral spherical particles differs significantly from the structure of TE or TM photons. Exact analytical expressions for the spontaneous emission radiative decay rate of a chiral molecule with arbitrary electric and magnetic dipole moments of transition located near a chiral spherical particle with arbitrary parameters are obtained and analyzed in details. Simple asymptotes for the case of a nanoparticle are obtained. Substantial influence of even small chirality on a dielectric or "left-handed" sphere is found. It is shown that by using chiral spherical particles it is possible to control effectively the radiation of enantiomers of optically active molecules.

id: 1203.5477
title: Photon-number resolving detector based on a series array of superconducting nanowires
authors: Saeedeh Jahanmirinejad, Giulia Frucci, Francesco Mattioli, Dondu Sahin, Alessandro Gaggero, Roberto Leoni, Andrea Fiore
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5477
abstract: We present the experimental demonstration of a superconducting photon number resolving detector. It is based on the series connection of N superconducting nanowires, each connected in parallel to an integrated resistor. The device provides a single voltage readout, proportional to the number of photons absorbed in distinct nanowires. Clearly separated output levels corresponding to the detection of n=1-4 photons are observed in a 4-element detector fabricated from an NbN film on GaAs substrate, with a single-photon system quantum efficiency of 2.6% at the wavelength of 1300nm. The series-nanowire structure is promising in view of its scalability to large photon numbers and high efficiencies.

id: 1203.5557
title: Quantum Theory without Planck's Constant
authors: John P. Ralston
comments: 42 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5557
abstract: Planck's constant was introduced as a fundamental scale in the early history of quantum mechanics. We find a modern approach where Planck's constant is absent: it is unobservable except as a constant of human convention. Despite long reference to experiment, review shows that Planck's constant cannot be obtained from the data of Ryberg, Davisson and Germer, Compton, or that used by Planck himself. In the new approach Planck's constant is tied to macroscopic conventions of Newtonian origin, which are dispensable. The precision of other fundamental constants is substantially improved by eliminating Planck's constant. The electron mass is determined about 67 times more precisely, and the unit of electric charge determined 139 times more precisely. Improvement in the experimental value of the fine structure constant allows new types of experiment to be compared towards finding "new physics." The long-standing goal of eliminating reliance on the artifact known as the International Prototype Kilogram can be accomplished to assist progress in fundamental physics.

id: 1203.5580
title: An Effective Hamiltonian for Symmetric Diarylmethanes from a Series of Analogous Quantum Chemical Models
authors: Seth Olsen, Ross H. McKenzie
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5580
abstract: We propose a single effective Hamiltonian to describe the low-energy electronic structure of a series of symmetric cationic diarylmethanes, which are all bridge-substituted derivatives of Michler's Hydrol Blue. Three-state diabatic Hamiltonians for the dyes are calculated using four-electron three-orbital state-averaged complete active space self-consistent field and multi-state multi-reference perturbation theory models. The approach takes advantage of an isolobal analogy that can be established between the orbitals spanning the active spaces of the different substituted dyes. The solutions of the chemical problem are expressed in a diabatic Hilbert space that is analogous to classical resonance models. The effective Hamiltonians for all dyes can be fit to a single functional form that depends on the mixing angle between a bridge-charged diabatic state and a superposition representing the canonical resonance. We find that the structure of the bridge-charged state changes in a regular fashion across the series. The change is consistent with an inversion of the sign of the charge carrier on the bridge, which changes from an electron pair to a hole as the series is traversed.

id: 1203.5697
title: Classical-mechanical models without observable trajectories and the Dirac electron
authors: A. A. Deriglazov
comments: 6 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377 (2012) 13-17
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5697
abstract: We construct a non-Grassmann spinning-particle model which, by analogy with quantum mechanics, does not admit the notion of a trajectory within the position space. The pseudo-classical character of the model allows us to avoid the inconsistencies arising in the quantum-mechanical interpretation of a one-particle sector of the Dirac equation.

id: 1203.5702
title: WKB Analysis of PT-Symmetric Sturm-Liouville problems. II
authors: Carl M. Bender, Hugh F. Jones
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5702
abstract: In a previous paper it was shown that a one-turning-point WKB approximation gives an accurate picture of the spectrum of certain non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Hamiltonians on a finite interval with Dirichlet boundary conditions. Potentials to which this analysis applies include the linear potential $V=igx$ and the sinusoidal potential $V=ig\sin(\alpha x)$. However, the one-turning-point analysis fails to give the full structure of the spectrum for the cubic potential $V=igx^3$, and in particular it fails to reproduce the critical points at which two real eigenvalues merge and become a complex-conjugate pair. The present paper extends the method to cases where the WKB path goes through a {\it pair} of turning points. The extended method gives an extremely accurate approximation to the spectrum of $V=igx^3$, and more generally it works for potentials of the form $V=igx^{2N+1}$. When applied to potentials with half-integral powers of $x$, the method again works well for one sign of the coupling, namely that for which the turning points lie on the first sheet in the lower-half plane.

id: 1203.5752
title: Quantum Monte Carlo calculation of entanglement Renyi entropies for generic quantum systems
authors: Stephan Humeniuk, Tommaso Roscilde
comments: 5+1 pages, 4+1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5752
abstract: We present a general scheme for the calculation of the Renyi entropy of a subsystem in quantum many-body models that can be efficiently simulated via quantum Monte Carlo. When the simulation is performed at very low temperature, the above approach delivers the entanglement Renyi entropy of the subsystem, and it allows to explore the crossover to the thermal Renyi entropy as the temperature is increased. We implement this scheme explicitly within the Stochastic Series expansion as well as within path-integral Monte Carlo, and apply it to quantum spin and quantum rotor models. In the case of quantum spins, we show that relevant models in two dimensions with reduced symmetry (XX model or hardcore bosons, transverse-field Ising model at the quantum critical point) exhibit an area law for the scaling of the entanglement entropy.

id: 1203.5867
title: Spontaneous excitation of a static multilevel atom coupled with electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations in Schwarzschild spacetime
authors: Wenting Zhou, Hongwei Yu
comments: 21 pages, no figures
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29 (2012) 085003
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5867
abstract: We study the spontaneous excitation of a radially polarized static multilevel atom outside a spherically symmetric black hole in multi-polar interaction with quantum electromagnetic fluctuations in the Boulware, Unruh and Hartle-Hawking vacuum states. We find that spontaneous excitation does not occur in the Boulware vacuum, and, in contrast to the scalar field case, spontaneous emission rate is not well-behaved at the event horizon as result of the blow-up of the proper acceleration of the static atom. However, spontaneous excitation can take place both in the Unruh and the Hartle-Hawking vacua as if there were thermal radiation from the black hole. Distinctive features in contrast to the scalar field case are the existence of a term proportional to the proper acceleration squared in the rate of change of the mean atomic energy in the Unruh and the Hartle-Hawking vacuums and the structural similarity in the spontaneous excitation rate between the static atoms outside a black hole and uniformly accelerated ones in a flat space with a reflecting boundary, which is particularly dramatic at the event horizon where a complete equivalence exists.

id: 1203.5868
title: Multi-indexed (q-)Racah Polynomials
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 29 pages. The type II (q-)Racah polynomials are deleted because they can be obtained from the type I polynomials. To appear in J.Phys.A
journal: J.Phys. A45 (2012) 385201
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5868
abstract: As the second stage of the project multi-indexed orthogonal polynomials, we present, in the framework of `discrete quantum mechanics' with real shifts in one dimension, the multi-indexed (q-)Racah polynomials. They are obtained from the (q-)Racah polynomials by multiple application of the discrete analogue of the Darboux transformations or the Crum-Krein-Adler deletion of `virtual state' vectors, in a similar way to the multi-indexed Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials reported earlier. The virtual state vectors are the `solutions' of the matrix Schr\"odinger equation with negative `eigenvalues', except for one of the two boundary points.

id: 1203.5909
title: Electric-field-induced coherent coupling of the exciton states in a single quantum dot
authors: A. J. Bennett, M. A. Pooley, R. M. Stevenson, M. B. Ward, R. B. Patel, A. Boyer de la Giroday, N. Sk?ld, I. Farrer, C. A. Nicoll, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 6, 947-950 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5909
abstract: The signature of coherent coupling between two quantum states is an anticrossing in their energies as one is swept through the other. In single semiconductor quantum dots containing an electron-hole pair the eigenstates form a two-level system that can be used to demonstrate quantum effects in the solid state, but in all previous work these states were independent. Here we describe a technique to control the energetic splitting of these states using a vertical electric field, facilitating the observation of coherent coupling between them. Near the minimum splitting the eigenstates rotate in the plane of the sample, being orientated at 45{\deg} when the splitting is smallest. Using this system we show direct control over the exciton states in one quantum dot, leading to the generation of entangled photon pairs.

id: 1203.5949
title: Relativistic quantum effects of Dirac particles simulated by ultracold atoms
authors: Dan-Wei Zhang, Zi-Dan Wang, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 22 pages, review article in Frontiers of Physics: Proceedings on Quantum Dynamics of Ultracold Atoms
journal: Front. Phys., 2012, 7(1): 31-53
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5949
abstract: Quantum simulation is a powerful tool to study a variety of problems in physics, ranging from high-energy physics to condensed-matter physics. In this article, we review the recent theoretical and experimental progress in quantum simulation of Dirac equation with tunable parameters by using ultracold neutral atoms trapped in optical lattices or subject to light-induced synthetic gauge fields. The effective theories for the quasiparticles become relativistic under certain conditions in these systems, making them ideal platforms for studying the exotic relativistic effects. We focus on the realization of one, two, and three dimensional Dirac equations as well as the detection of some relativistic effects, including particularly the well-known Zitterbewegung effect and Klein tunneling. The realization of quantum anomalous Hall effects is also briefly discussed.

id: 1203.6003
title: On quantum mean-field models and their quantum annealing
authors: Victor Bapst, Guilhem Semerjian
comments: 44 pages, 23 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. P06007 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6003
abstract: This paper deals with fully-connected mean-field models of quantum spins with p-body ferromagnetic interactions and a transverse field. For p=2 this corresponds to the quantum Curie-Weiss model (a special case of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model) which exhibits a second-order phase transition, while for p>2 the transition is first order. We provide a refined analytical description both of the static and of the dynamic properties of these models. In particular we obtain analytically the exponential rate of decay of the gap at the first-order transition. We also study the slow annealing from the pure transverse field to the pure ferromagnet (and vice versa) and discuss the effect of the first-order transition and of the spinodal limit of metastability on the residual excitation energy, both for finite and exponentially divergent annealing times. In the quantum computation perspective this quantity would assess the efficiency of the quantum adiabatic procedure as an approximation algorithm.

id: 1203.6044
title: All-optical tuning of a quantum dot in a coupled cavity system
authors: Ranojoy Bose, Tao Cai, Glenn. S. Solomon, Edo Waks
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6044
abstract: We demonstrate a method of tuning a semiconductor quantum dot (QD) onto resonance with a cavity mode all-optically. We use a system comprised of two evanescently coupled cavities containing a single QD. One resonance of the coupled cavity system is used to generate a cavity enhanced optical Stark shift, enabling the QD to be resonantly tuned to the other cavity mode. A twenty-seven fold increase in photon emission from the QD is measured when the off-resonant QD is Stark shifted into the cavity mode resonance, which is attributed to radiative enhancement of the QD. A maximum tuning of 0.06 nm is achieved for the QD at an incident power of 88 {\mu}W.

id: 1203.6065
title: Global superfluid phase diagram of three component fermions with magnetic ordering
authors: M. Kanasz-Nagy, G. Zarand
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6065
abstract: We investigate a three component fermion mixture in the presence of weak attractive interactions. We use a combination of the equation of motion and the Gaussian variational mean-field approaches, which both allow for simultaneous superfluid and magnetic ordering in an unbiased way, and capture the interplay between the two order parameters. This interplay significantly modifies the phase diagram, especially the superfluid-normal phase boundaries. In the close vicinity of the critical temperature and for small chemical potential imbalances, strong particle-hole symmetry breaking leads to a phase diagram similar to the one predicted by Cherng et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 130406 (2007)], however, the overall phase diagram is markedly different: new chemical potential-driven first and second order transitions and triple points emerge as well as more exotic second order multicritical points, and bicritical lines with O(2,2) symmetry. We identify the terms which are necessary to capture this complex phase diagram in a Ginzburg-Landau approach, and determine the corresponding coefficients.

id: 1203.6153
title: Refined Holographic Entanglement Entropy for the AdS Solitons and AdS black Holes
authors: Masafumi Ishihara, Feng-Li Lin, Bo Ning
comments: 48 pages, 24 figures; v2: few typos corrected; v3: mistake on the choice of dominant phase is corrected, differential subtraction scheme is introduced to remove the UV cutoff-ambiguity, some of the conclusions on RG flow are changed; v4: statement about C theorem revised; v5 Final version to NPB
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6153
abstract: We consider the refinement of the holographic entanglement entropy for the holographic dual theories to the AdS solitons and AdS black holes, including the corrected ones by the Gauss-Bonnet term. The refinement is obtained by extracting the UV-independent piece of the holographic entanglement entropy, the so-called renormalized entanglement entropy which is independent of the choices of UV cutoff. Our main results are (i) the renormalized entanglement entropies of the AdS$_{d+1}$ soliton for $d=4,5$ are neither monotonically decreasing along the RG flow nor positive definite, especially around the deconfinement/confinement phase transition; (ii) there is no topological entanglement entropy for AdS$_5$ soliton even with Gauss-Bonnet correction; (iii) for the AdS black holes, the renormalized entanglement entropy obeys an expected volume law at IR regime, and the transition between UV and IR regimes is a smooth crossover even with Gauss-Bonnet correction; (iv) based on AdS/MERA conjecture, we postulate that the IR fixed-point state for the non-extremal AdS soliton is a trivial product state.

id: 1203.6161
title: Classical and quantum satisfiability
authors: Anderson de Ara¨²jo, Marcelo Finger
comments: In Proceedings LSFA 2011, arXiv:1203.5423
journal: EPTCS 81, 2012, pp. 79-84
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6161
abstract: We present the linear algebraic definition of QSAT and propose a direct logical characterization of such a definition. We then prove that this logical version of QSAT is not an extension of classical satisfiability problem (SAT). This shows that QSAT does not allow a direct comparison between the complexity classes NP and QMA, for which SAT and QSAT are respectively complete.

id: 1203.6171
title: Fast Purcell-enhanced single photon source in 1,550-nm telecom band from a resonant quantum dot-cavity coupling
authors: M. D. Birowosuto, H. Sumikura, S. Matsuo, H. Taniyama, P. J. van Veldhoven, R. N?tzel, M. Notomi
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 2 (2012) 321
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6171
abstract: High-bit-rate nanocavity-based single photon sources in the 1,550-nm telecom band are challenges facing the development of fibre-based long-haul quantum communication networks. Here we report a very fast single photon source in the 1,550-nm telecom band, which is achieved by a large Purcell enhancement that results from the coupling of a single InAs quantum dot and an InP photonic crystal nanocavity. At a resonance, the spontaneous emission rate was enhanced by a factor of 5 resulting a record fast emission lifetime of 0.2 ns at 1,550 nm. We also demonstrate that this emission exhibits an enhanced anti-bunching dip. This is the first realization of nanocavity-enhanced single photon emitters in the 1,550-nm telecom band. This coupled quantum dot cavity system in the telecom band thus provides a bright high-bit-rate non-classical single photon source that offers appealing novel opportunities for the development of a long-haul quantum telecommunication system via optical fibres.

id: 1203.6211
title: Density-functional theory for 1D harmonically trapped Bose-Fermi mixture
authors: Hongmei Wang, Yajiang Hao, Yunbo Zhang
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6211
abstract: We present a density-functional theory for the one dimensional harmonically trapped Bose-Fermi mixture with repulsive contact interactions. The ground state density distribution of each component is obtained by solving the Kohn-Sham equations numerically based on the Local Density Approximation and the exact solution for the homogeneous system given by Bethe ansatz method. It is shown that for strong enough interaction, a considerable amount of fermions are repelled out of the central region of the trap, exhibiting partial phase separation of Bose and Fermi components. Oscillations emerge in the Bose density curves reflecting the strong correlation with Fermions. For infinite strong interaction, the ground state energy of the mixture and the total density are consistent with the scenario that all atoms in the mixture are fully fermionized.

id: 1203.6241
title: Pseudo-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics with Unbounded Metric Operators
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 8 pages, accepted for publication in Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6241
abstract: We extend the formulation of pseudo-Hermitian quantum mechanics to eta-pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian operators H with an unbounded metric operator eta. In particular, we give the details of the construction of the physical Hilbert space, observables, and equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian for the case that H has a real and discrete spectrum and its eigenvectors belong to the domain of eta and consequently its positive square root.

id: 1203.6245
title: Impact of the valley degree of freedom on the control of donor electrons near a Si/SiO_2 interface
authors: A. Baena, A. L. Saraiva, Belita Koiller, M. J. Calder¨®n
comments: 8 pages, including 5 figures. v2: Minor clarifying changes in the text and figures. Change of title. As published in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 035317 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6245
abstract: We analyze the valley composition of one electron bound to a shallow donor close to a Si/barrier interface as a function of an applied electric field. A full six-valley effective mass model Hamiltonian is adopted. For low fields, the electron ground state is essentially confined at the donor. At high fields the ground state is such that the electron is drawn to the interface, leaving the donor practically ionized. Valley splitting at the interface occurs due to the valley-orbit coupling, V_vo^I = |V_vo^I| e^{i theta}. At intermediate electric fields, close to a characteristic shuttling field, the electron states may constitute hybridized states with valley compositions different from the donor and the interface ground states. The full spectrum of energy levels shows crossings and anti-crossings as the field varies. The degree of level repulsion, thus the width of the anti-crossing gap, depends on the relative valley compositions, which vary with |V_vo^I|, theta and the interface-donor distance. We focus on the valley configurations of the states involved in the donor-interface tunneling process, given by the anti-crossing of the three lowest eigenstates. A sequence of two anti-crossings takes place and the complex phase theta affects the symmetries of the eigenstates and level anti-crossing gaps. We discuss the implications of our results on the practical manipulation of donor electrons in Si nanostructures.

id: 1203.6254
title: Transformation laws of the components of classical and quantum fields and Heisenberg relations
authors: Bozhidar Z. Iliev
comments: 22 LaTeX pages. The packages AMS-LaTeX and amsfonts are required. For other papers on the same topic, view this http URL . arXiv admin note: significant text overlap with arXiv:0809.0174
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A, vol. 27, No. 26, 2012, p. 1250152-1
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6254
abstract: The paper recalls and point to the origin of the transformation laws of the components of classical and quantum fields. They are considered from the "standard" and fibre bundle point of view. The results are applied to the derivation of the Heisenberg relations in quite general setting, in particular, in the fibre bundle approach. All conclusions are illustrated in a case of transformations induced by the Poincar\'e group.

id: 1203.6267
title: Renormalization: the observable-state model Part II
authors: Juan Sebasti¨¢n Ardenghi, Mario Castagnino
comments: 21 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D, 85, 15, 125008, (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6267
abstract: The purpose of this work is to rewrite the generating functional of phi^4 theory for the n = 0 and n = 4 correlation functions as the inner product of a state with an observable, as we did in [J. S. Ardenghi, M. Castagnino, Phys. Rev. D, 85, 025002, (2012)] for the two-points correlation function. The observables are defined through the external sources and the states are defined through the correlation function itself. In this sense, the divergences of Quantum Field Theory (QFT) appear in the reduced state by taking the partial trace of the state with respect to the internal vertices that appear in the perturbation expansion. From this viewpoint, the renormalization can be substituted by applying a projector on the internal quantum state. The advantage of this new insight is that we can obtain finite contributions of the correlation functions without introducing counterterms in the Lagrangian or by manipulating complex divergent quantities.

id: 1203.6304
title: Roughness correction to the Casimir force at short separations: Contact distance and extreme value statistics
authors: Wijnand Broer, George Palasantzas, Jasper Knoester, Vitaly B. Svetovoy
comments: 29 pages, 11 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 155410 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6304
abstract: So far there has been no reliable method to calculate the Casimir force at separations comparable to the root-mean-square of the height fluctuations of the surfaces. Statistical analysis of rough gold samples has revealed the presence of peaks considerably higher than the root-mean-square roughness. These peaks redefine the minimum separation distance between the bodies and can be described by extreme value statistics. Here we show that the contribution of the high peaks to the Casimir force can be calculated with a pairwise additive summation, while the contribution of asperities with normal height can be evaluated perturbatively. This method provides a reliable estimate of the Casimir force at short distances, and it solves the significant, so far unexplained discrepancy between measurements of the Casimir force between rough surfaces and the results of perturbation theory. Furthermore, we illustrate the importance of our results in a technologically relevant situation.

id: 1203.6325
title: Characterizing correlations with full counting statistics: classical Ising and quantum XY spin chains
authors: Dmitri A. Ivanov, Alexander G. Abanov
comments: 6 pages, section on Lee-Yang zeros added, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 022114 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6325
abstract: We propose to describe correlations in classical and quantum systems in terms of full counting statistics of a suitably chosen discrete observable. The method is illustrated with two exactly solvable examples: the classical one-dimensional Ising model and the quantum spin-1/2 XY chain. For the one-dimensional Ising model, our method results in a phase diagram with two phases distinguishable by the long-distance behavior of the Jordan-Wigner strings. For the quantum XY chain, the method reproduces the previously known phase diagram.

id: 1203.6332
title: Two-electron dephasing in single Si and GaAs quantum dots
authors: John King Gamble, Mark Friesen, S. N. Coppersmith, Xuedong Hu
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 035302 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6332
abstract: We study the dephasing of two-electron states in a single quantum dot in both GaAs and Si. We investigate dephasing induced by electron-phonon coupling and by charge noise analytically for pure orbital excitations in GaAs and Si, as well as for pure valley excitations in Si. In GaAs, polar optical phonons give rise to the most important contribution, leading to a typical dephasing rate of ~5.9 GHz. For Si, intervalley optical phonons lead to a typical dephasing rate of ~140 kHz for orbital excitations and ~1.1 MHz for valley excitations. For harmonic, disorder-free quantum dots, charge noise is highly suppressed for both orbital and valley excitations, since neither has an appreciable dipole moment to couple to electric field variations from charge fluctuators. However, both anharmonicity and disorder break the symmetry of the system, which can lead to increased dipole moments and therefore faster dephasing rates.

id: 1203.6355
title: Nonperturbative master equation solution of central spin dephasing dynamics
authors: Edwin Barnes, ?ukasz Cywi¨½ski, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, v2: new 4-page supplement added, PRL version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 140403 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6355
abstract: We solve the long-standing central spin problem for a general set of inhomogeneous bath couplings and a large class of initial bath states. We compute the time evolution of the coherence of a central spin coupled to a spin bath by resumming all orders of the time-convolutionless master equation, thus avoiding the need to assume weak coupling to the bath. The fully quantum, non-Markovian solution is obtained in the large-bath limit and is valid up to a timescale set by the largest coupling constant. Our result captures the full decoherence of an electron spin qubit coupled to a nuclear spin bath in a GaAs quantum dot for experimentally relevant parameters. In addition, our solution is quite compact and can readily be used to make quantitative predictions for the decoherence process and to guide the design of nuclear state preparation protocols.

id: 1203.6447
title: Information and Cosmological Physics
authors: Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: Talk at ICGC 2011, Goa (India). To appear in Proceedings
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6447
abstract: We review an information-theoretic approach to quantum cosmology, summarising the key results obtained to date, including a suggestion that an accelerating universe will eventually turn around.

id: 1203.6483
title: Gaussian fluctuations in an ideal bose-gas -- a simple model
authors: A Petrova, O Nedopekin, D Tayurskii, Q A Wang
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:cond-mat/0408599
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 324 (2011) 012032
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6483
abstract: Based on the canonical ensemble, we suggested the simple scheme for taking into account Gaussian fluctuations in a finite system of ideal boson gas. Within framework of scheme we investigated the influence of fluctuations on the particle distribution in Bose -gas for two cases - with taking into account the number of particles in the ground state and without this assumption. The temperature and fluctuation parameter dependences of the modified Bose- Einstein distribution have been determined. Also the dependence of the condensation temperature on the fluctuation distribution parameter has been obtained.

id: 1203.6493
title: The Statistical Distribution of quantum particles where any of them can be a fermion with probability [P] or a boson with probability [1-p]
authors: Ahmad Abu Taleb
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6493
abstract: Despite the obvious difference between fermions and bosons in their physical properties and statistical distributions, but we have to ask the following question. What is the form of statistical distribution for a system of quantum particles where any of them can be a fermion with probability [P] and can be a boson with probability [1-P]?. In this paper this question is solved

id: 1203.6518
title: Statistical thermodynamics for a non-commutative special relativity: Emergence of a generalized quantum dynamics
authors: Kinjalk Lochan, Seema Satin, Tejinder P. Singh
comments: 21 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1106.0911
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6518
abstract: There ought to exist a description of quantum field theory which does not depend on an external classical time. To achieve this goal, in a recent paper we have proposed a non-commutative special relativity in which space-time and matter degrees of freedom are treated as classical matrices with arbitrary commutation relations, and a space-time line element is defined using a trace. In the present paper, following the theory of Trace Dynamics, we construct a statistical thermodynamics for the non-commutative special relativity, and show that one arrives at a generalized quantum dynamics in which space and time are non-classical and have an operator status. In a future work, we will show how standard quantum theory on a classical space-time background is recovered from here.

id: 1203.6557
title: Levinson's theorem for graphs II
authors: Andrew M. Childs, David Gosset
comments: Published version
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 53, 102207 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6557
abstract: We prove Levinson's theorem for scattering on an (m+n)-vertex graph with n semi-infinite paths each attached to a different vertex, generalizing a previous result for the case n=1. This theorem counts the number of bound states in terms of the winding of the determinant of the S-matrix. We also provide a proof that the bound states and incoming scattering states of the Hamiltonian together form a complete basis for the Hilbert space, generalizing another result for the case n=1.

id: 1203.6558
title: Low-noise on-chip frequency conversion by four-wave-mixing Bragg scattering in SiNx waveguides
authors: Imad Agha, Marcelo Davanco, Bryce Thurston, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: 4 pages, two columns, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters 37, 2997-2999 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6558
abstract: Low-noise, tunable wavelength-conversion through non-degenerate four-wave mixing Bragg scattering in SiNx waveguides is experimentally demonstrated. Finite element method simulations of waveguide dispersion are used with the split-step Fourier method to predict device performance, and indicate a strong dependence of the conversion efficiency on phase matching, which is controlled by the waveguide geometry. Two 1550 nm wavelength band pulsed pumps are used to achieve tunable conversion of a 980 nm signal over a range of 5 nm with a peak conversion efficiency of \approx 5 %. The demonstrated Bragg scattering process is suitable for frequency conversion of quantum states of light.

id: 1203.6585
title: Facilitated spin models of dissipative quantum glasses
authors: Beatriz Olmos, Igor Lesanovsky, Juan P. Garrahan
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 020403 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6585
abstract: We introduce a class of dissipative quantum spin models with local interactions and without quenched disorder that show glassy behaviour. These models are the quantum analogs of the classical facilitated spin models. Just like their classical counterparts, quantum facilitated models display complex glassy dynamics despite the fact that their stationary state is essentially trivial. In these systems, dynamical arrest is a consequence of kinetic constraints and not of static ordering. These models display a quantum version of dynamic heterogeneity: the dynamics towards relaxation is spatially correlated despite the absence of static correlations. Associated dynamical fluctuation phenomena such as decoupling of timescales is also observed. Moreover, we find that close to the classical limit quantum fluctuations can enhance glassiness, as recently reported for quantum liquids.

id: 1203.6590
title: Negative-energy PT-symmetric Hamiltonians
authors: Carl M. Bender, Daniel W. Hook, S. P. Klevansky
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6590
abstract: The non-Hermitian PT-symmetric quantum-mechanical Hamiltonian $H=p^2+x^2(ix)^\epsilon$ has real, positive, and discrete eigenvalues for all $\epsilon\geq 0$. These eigenvalues are analytic continuations of the harmonic-oscillator eigenvalues $E_n=2n+1$ (n=0, 1, 2, 3, ...) at $\epsilon=0$. However, the harmonic oscillator also has negative eigenvalues $E_n=-2n-1$ (n=0, 1, 2, 3, ...), and one may ask whether it is equally possible to continue analytically from these eigenvalues. It is shown in this paper that for appropriate PT-symmetric boundary conditions the Hamiltonian $H=p^2+x^2(ix)^\epsilon$ also has real and {\it negative} discrete eigenvalues. The negative eigenvalues fall into classes labeled by the integer N (N=1, 2, 3, ...). For the Nth class of eigenvalues, $\epsilon$ lies in the range $(4N-6)/3<\epsilon<4N-2$. At the low and high ends of this range, the eigenvalues are all infinite. At the special intermediate value $\epsilon=2N-2$ the eigenvalues are the negatives of those of the conventional Hermitian Hamiltonian $H=p^2+x^{2N}$. However, when $\epsilon\neq 2N-2$, there are infinitely many complex eigenvalues. Thus, while the positive-spectrum sector of the Hamiltonian $H=p^2+x^2(ix)^\epsilon$ has an unbroken PT symmetry (the eigenvalues are all real), the negative-spectrum sector of $H=p^2+x^2(ix)^\epsilon$ has a broken PT symmetry (only some of the eigenvalues are real).

id: 1203.6804
title: Minimal coupling in oscillator models of quantum dissipation
authors: Heiner Kohler, Fernando Sols
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.6804
abstract: The dissipative harmonic oscillator has two representations. In the first representation the central oscillator couples with its position to an oscillator bath. In the second one it couples with its momentum to the bath. Both representations are related by a unitary transformation. If the central oscillator couples with its position and momentum to two independent baths, no such unitary transformation exists. We discuss two possible models of this type and their physical relevance.

id: 1203.2983
title: Arbitrary Dimensional Majorana Dualities and Network Architectures for Topological Matter
authors: Zohar Nussinov, Gerardo Ortiz, Emilio Cobanera
comments: v3,19 pages, 18 figures, submitted to Physical Review B. 11 new figures, new section on simulating the Hubbard model with nanowire systems, and two new appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 085415 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.2983
abstract: Motivated by the prospect of attaining Majorana modes at the ends of nanowires, we analyze interacting Majorana systems on general networks and lattices in an arbitrary number of dimensions, and derive various universal spin duals. Such general complex Majorana architectures (other than those of simple square or other crystalline arrangements) might be of empirical relevance. As these systems display low-dimensional symmetries, they are candidates for realizing topological quantum order. We prove that (a) these Majorana systems, (b) quantum Ising gauge theories, and (c) transverse-field Ising models with annealed bimodal disorder are all dual to one another on general graphs. As any Dirac fermion (including electronic) operator can be expressed as a linear combination of two Majorana fermion operators, our results further lead to dualities between interacting Dirac fermionic systems. The spin duals allow us to predict the feasibility of various standard transitions as well as spin-glass type behavior in {\it interacting} Majorana fermion or electronic systems. Several new systems that can be simulated by arrays of Majorana wires are further introduced and investigated: (1) the {\it XXZ honeycomb compass} model (intermediate between the classical Ising model on the honeycomb lattice and Kitaev's honeycomb model), (2) a checkerboard lattice realization of the model of Xu and Moore for superconducting $(p+ip)$ arrays, and a (3) compass type two-flavor Hubbard model with both pairing and hopping terms. By the use of dualities, we show that all of these systems lie in the 3D Ising universality class. We discuss how the existence of topological orders and bounds on autocorrelation times can be inferred by the use of symmetries and also propose to engineer {\it quantum simulators} out of these Majorana networks.

id: 1203.1812
title: Revisiting (quasi-)exactly solvable rational extensions of the Morse potential
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 24 pages, no figure, published version
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 27 (2012) 1250073
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.1812
abstract: The construction of rationally-extended Morse potentials is analyzed in the framework of first-order supersymmetric quantum mechanics. The known family of extended potentials $V_{A,B,{\rm ext}}(x)$, obtained from a conventional Morse potential $V_{A-1,B}(x)$ by the addition of a bound state below the spectrum of the latter, is re-obtained. More importantly, the existence of another family of extended potentials, strictly isospectral to $V_{A+1,B}(x)$, is pointed out for a well-chosen range of parameter values. Although not shape invariant, such extended potentials exhibit a kind of `enlarged' shape invariance property, in the sense that their partner, obtained by translating both the parameter $A$ and the degree $m$ of the polynomial arising in the denominator, belongs to the same family of extended potentials. The point canonical transformation connecting the radial oscillator to the Morse potential is also applied to exactly solvable rationally-extended radial oscillator potentials to build quasi-exactly solvable rationally-extended Morse ones.

