id: 1204.0051
title: A scaling law for light scattering from dense and cold atomic ensembles
authors: I.M. Sokolov, A.S. Kuraptsev, D.V. Kupriyanov, M.D. Havey, S. Balik
comments: Submitted to Journal of Modern Optics, Special issue on the Proceedings of the Colloquium on the Physics of Quantum Electronics
journal: J. Modern Optics, Issue 1, Volume 60, 50-56 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0051
abstract: We calculate the differential cross section of polarized light scattering from a cold and dense atomic ensemble. The regularities in the transformation of the cross section when increasing the size of the atomic ensemble are analyzed numerically. We show that for typical experimental conditions, an approximate scaling law can be obtained. Very good agreement is found in a comparison with experimental data on the size dependence of a dense and cold cloud of 87$Rb atoms.

id: 1204.0058
title: Violation of the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality with matter waves
authors: K. V. Kheruntsyan, J.-C. Jaskula, P. Deuar, M. Bonneau, G. B. Partridge, J. Ruaudel, R. Lopes, D. Boiron, C. I. Westbrook
comments: Final published version (with minor changes). 5 pages, 3 figures, plus Supplementary Material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 260401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0058
abstract: The Cauchy-Schwarz (CS) inequality -- one of the most widely used and important inequalities in mathematics -- can be formulated as an upper bound to the strength of correlations between classically fluctuating quantities. Quantum mechanical correlations can, however, exceed classical bounds.Here we realize four-wave mixing of atomic matter waves using colliding Bose-Einstein condensates, and demonstrate the violation of a multimode CS inequality for atom number correlations in opposite zones of the collision halo. The correlated atoms have large spatial separations and therefore open new opportunities for extending fundamental quantum-nonlocality tests to ensembles of massive particles.

id: 1204.0061
title: Control of Inhomogeneous Ensembles on The Bloch Sphere
authors: Philip Owrutsky, Navin Khaneja
comments: 10 Pages, 11 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0061
abstract: Finding control fields (pulse sequences) that can compensate for the dispersion in the parameters governing the evolution of a quantum system is an important problem in coherent spectroscopy and quantum information processing. The use of composite pulses for compensating for dispersion in system dynamics is widely known and applied. In this paper, we introduce new pulse elements for correcting pulse errors. These design methods are analytical and can be used to prove arbitrarily good robust performance. Furthermore, the time-to-compensation is superior to existing Fourier Synthesis Methods which is critical for minimizing errors due to relaxation effects.

id: 1204.0093
title: Spin Squeezing under Non-Markovian Channels by Hierarchy Equation Method
authors: Xiaolei Yin, Jian Ma, Xiaoguang Wang, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012308 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0093
abstract: We study spin squeezing under non-Markovian channels, and consider an ensemble of $N$ independent spin-1/2 particles with exchange symmetry. Each spin interacts with its own bath, and the baths are independent and identical. For this kind of open system, the spin squeezing under decoherence can be investigated from the dynamics of the local expectations, and the multi-qubit dynamics can be reduced into the two-qubit one. The reduced dynamics is obtained by the hierarchy equation method, which is a exact without rotating-wave and Born-Markov approximation. The numerical results show that the spin squeezing displays multiple sudden vanishing and revival with lower bath temperature, and it can also vanish asymptotically.

id: 1204.0239
title: Spin dynamics in the Kapitza-Dirac effect
authors: Sven Ahrens, Heiko Bauke, Christoph H. Keitel, Carsten M¨¹ller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 043601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0239
abstract: Electron spin dynamics in Kapitza-Dirac scattering from a standing laser wave of high frequency and high intensity is studied. We develop a fully relativistic quantum theory of the electron motion based on the time-dependent Dirac equation. Distinct spin dynamics, with Rabi oscillations and complete spin-flip transitions, is demonstrated for Kapitza-Dirac scattering involving three photons in a parameter regime accessible to future high-power X-ray laser sources. The Rabi frequency and, thus, the diffraction pattern is shown to depend crucially on the spin degree of freedom.

id: 1204.0288
title: Ensembles of physical states and random quantum circuits on graphs
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Siddhartha Santra, Paolo Zanardi
comments: updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052324 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0288
abstract: In this paper we continue and extend the investigations of the ensembles of random physical states introduced in A. Hamma et al. [ this http URL Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 040502 (2012)]. These ensembles are constructed by finite-length random quantum circuits (RQC) acting on the (hyper)edges of an underlying (hyper)graph structure. The latter encodes for the locality structure associated with finite-time quantum evolutions generated by physical i.e., local, Hamiltonians. Our goal is to analyze physical properties of typical states in these ensembles, in particular here we focus on proxies of quantum entanglement as purity and $\alpha$-Renyi entropies. The problem is formulated in terms of matrix elements of superoperators which depend on the graph structure, choice of probability measure over the local unitaries and circuit length. In the $\alpha=2$ case these superoperators act on a restricted multi-qubit space generated by permutation operators associated to the subsets of vertices of the graph. For permutationally invariant interactions the dynamics can be further restricted to an exponentially smaller subspace. We consider different families of RQCs and study their typical entanglement properties for finite-time as well as their asymptotic behavior. We find that area law holds in average and that the volume law is a typical property (that is, it holds in average and the fluctuations around the average are vanishing for the large system) of physical states. The area law arises when the evolution time is O(1) with respect to the size $L$ of the system, while the volume law arises as typical when the evolution time scales like O(L).

id: 1204.0293
title: Unification of multi-qubit polygamy inequalities
authors: Jeong San Kim
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 032335 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0293
abstract: We establish a unified view of polygamy of multi-qubit entanglement. We first introduce a two-parameter generalization of entanglement of assistance namely unified entanglement of assistance for bipartite quantum states, and provide an analytic lowerbound in two-qubit systems. We show a broad class of polygamy inequalities of multi-qubit entanglement in terms of unified entanglement of assistance that encapsulates all known multi-qubit polygamy inequalities as special cases. We further show that this class of polygamy inequalities can be improved into tighter inequalities for three-qubit systems.

id: 1204.0302
title: Entanglement-Assisted Quantum Error-Correcting Codes with Imperfect Ebits
authors: Ching-Yi Lai, Todd A. Brun
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032319 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0302
abstract: The scheme of entanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting (EAQEC) codes assumes that the ebits of the receiver are error-free. In practical situations, errors on these ebits are unavoidable, which diminishes the error-correcting ability of these codes. We consider two different versions of this problem. We first show that any (nondegenerate) standard stabilizer code can be transformed into an EAQEC code that can correct errors on the qubits of both sender and receiver. These EAQEC codes are equivalent to standard stabilizer codes, and hence the decoding techniques of standard stabilizer codes can be applied. Several EAQEC codes of this type are found to be optimal. In a second scheme, the receiver uses a standard stabilizer code to protect the ebits, which we call a "combination code." The performances of different quantum codes are compared in terms of the channel fidelity over the depolarizing channel. We give a formula for the channel fidelity over the depolarizing channel (or any Pauli error channel), and show that it can be efficiently approximated by a Monte Carlo calculation. Finally, we discuss the tradeoff between performing extra entanglement distillation and applying an EAQEC code with imperfect ebits.

id: 1204.0322
title: Proposal for a new scheme for producing a two-photon, high dimensional hyperentangled state
authors: Hong-Bo Xu, Kun Du, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, to appear in J.Mod Optics
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 59, 1265-1271 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0322
abstract: We propose an experimentally feasible scheme for generating a two $2\times4\times4$ dimensional photons hyperentangled state, entangled in polarization, frequency and spatial mode. This scheme is mainly based on a parametric down-conversion source and cross-Kerr nonlinearities, which avoids the complicated uncertain post-selection. Our method can be easily expanded to the production of hyperentangled states with more photons in multidimensions. Hence the expectation for vast quantities of information in quantum information processing will possibly come true. Finally, we put forward a realizable quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol based on the high dimensional hyperentangled state.

id: 1204.0341
title: Generic measure for the quantum correlation of the two-qubit systems: the average of the spin-correlation elements
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1106.3392
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0341
abstract: Based on the Pauli spin operators we develop the notion of the spin-correlation matrix for the two-qubit system. If this matrix is non-zero, the measure of the correlation between the qubits is the average of the non-zero elements. Trivially, for zero matrix the bipartite is uncorrelated. This criterion turns out to be a necessary and sufficient condition for the full correlation, where it includes information on both entanglement and correlation other than entanglement. Moreover, we discuss to what extent this criterion can give information on the entanglement of the system. The criterion is generic in the sense that it can be applied to mixed and pure systems. Also, it can be easily extended to treat the correlation of multipartite systems. We compare the results obtained from this criterion to those from concurrence for various examples and we gain agreement regarding entanglement. We believe that this criterion may have a wide range of potential applications in quantum information theory.

id: 1204.0352
title: Optimizing the catching of atoms or molecules in two-dimensional traps
authors: V. P. Singh, A. Ruschhaupt
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures, improved version with corrected typos etc
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043834 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0352
abstract: Single-photon cooling is a recently introduced method to cool atoms and molecules for which standard methods might not be applicable. We numerically examine this method in a two-dimensional wedge trap as well as in a two-dimensional harmonic trap. An element of the method is an optical dipole box trapping atoms irreversibly. We show that the cooling efficiency of the single-photon method can be improved by optimizing the trajectory of this optical dipole box.

id: 1204.0366
title: Using Separable Bell-Diagonal States to Distribute Entanglement
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 4 pages. v3: improved context with prior works. v4: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 080503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0366
abstract: One of the many bizarre features of entanglement is that Alice, by sending a qubit to Bob in a separable state, can generate some entanglement between herself and Bob. This protocol is stripped down to the bare essentials to better elucidate the key properties of the initial resource state that enable this entanglement distribution. The necessary and sufficient conditions under which the correlations of a Bell-diagonal state serve as a useful resource are proven, giving upper and lower bounds on the entanglement that can be distributed when those conditions are met.

id: 1204.0376
title: Classification of Multipartite Entanglement via Negativity Fonts
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: 5 pages, No figures, Corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042315 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0376
abstract: Partial transposition of state operator is a well known tool to detect quantum correlations between two parts of a composite system. In this letter, the global partial transpose (GPT) is linked to conceptually multipartite underlying structures in a state - the negativity fonts. If K-way negativity fonts with non zero determinants exist, then selective partial transposition of a pure state, involving K of the N qubits (K leq N) yields an operator with negative eigevalues, identifying K-body correlations in the state. Expansion of GPT interms of K-way partially transposed (KPT) operators reveals the nature of intricate intrinsic correlations in the state. Classification criteria for multipartite entangled states, based on underlying structure of global partial transpose of canonical state, are proposed. Number of N-partite entanglement types for an N qubit system is found to be 2^{N-1}-N+2, while the number of major entanglement classes is 2^{N-1}-1. Major classes for three and four qubit states are listed. Subclasses are determined by the number and type of negativity fonts in canonical state.

id: 1204.0388
title: Tailoring many-body entanglement through local control
authors: Felix Lucas, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032306 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0388
abstract: We construct optimal time-local control pulses based on a multipartite entanglement measure as target functional. The underlying control Hamiltonians are derived in a purely algebraic fashion, and the resulting pulses drive a composite quantum system rapidly into that highly entangled state which can be created most efficiently for a given interaction mechanism, and which bears entanglement that is robust against decoherence. Moreover, it is shown that the control scheme is insensitive to experimental imperfections in first order.

id: 1204.0406
title: Enhancing Quantum Effects via Periodic Modulations in Optomechanical Systems
authors: Alessandro Farace, Vittorio GIovannetti
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013820 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0406
abstract: Parametrically modulated optomechanical systems have been recently proposed as a simple and efficient setting for the quantum control of a micromechanical oscillator: relevant possibilities include the generation of squeezing in the oscillator position (or momentum) and the enhancement of entanglement between mechanical and radiation modes. In this paper we further investigate this new modulation regime, considering an optomechanical system with one or more parameters being modulated over time. We first apply a sinusoidal modulation of the mechanical frequency and characterize the optimal regime in which the visibility of purely quantum effects is maximal. We then introduce a second modulation on the input laser intensity and analyze the interplay between the two. We find that an interference pattern shows up, so that different choices of the relative phase between the two modulations can either enhance or cancel the desired quantum effects.

id: 1204.0413
title: Transport induced melting of crystals of Rydberg dressed atoms in a one dimensional lattice
authors: Achim Lauer, Dominik Muth, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: minor additions, 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0413
abstract: We discuss the many-body physics of an ensemble of Rydberg dressed atoms with van der Waals dipole-dipole interactions in a one-dimensional lattice. Using a strong coupling expansion and numerical density-matrix renormalisation group simulations, we calculate the many-body phase diagram. A devil's staircase structure emerges with Mott-insulating phases at any rational filling fraction. Closed analytic expressions are given for the phase boundaries in second order of the tunnelling amplitude and shown to agree very well with the numerical results. The transition point where the incompressible phases melt due to the kinetic energy term depends strongly on the denominator of the filling fraction and varies over many orders of magnitude between different phases.

id: 1204.0438
title: Efficient scheme for three-photon Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state generation
authors: Dong Ding, Fengli Yan
comments: 7pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 377 (2013) 1088-1094
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0438
abstract: We propose an efficient scheme for the generation of three-photon Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state with linear optics and postselection. Several devices are designed and a two-mode quantum nondemolition (QND) detection is introduced to obtain the desired state. It is worth noting that the states which have entanglement in both polarization and spatial degrees of freedom are created in one of the designed setups. The method described in the present scheme can create a large number of three-photon GHZ states in principle. We also discuss an approach to generate the desired GHZ state in the presence of channel noise.

id: 1204.0443
title: High threshold distributed quantum computing with three-qubit nodes
authors: Ying Li, Simon C Benjamin
comments: 5 figures, 12 pages in single column format. Revision has more detailed comparison with prior schemes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0443
abstract: In the distributed quantum computing paradigm, well-controlled few-qubit `nodes' are networked together by connections which are relatively noisy and failure prone. A practical scheme must offer high tolerance to errors while requiring only simple (i.e. few-qubit) nodes. Here we show that relatively modest, three-qubit nodes can support advanced purification techniques and so offer robust scalability: the infidelity in the entanglement channel may be permitted to approach 10% if the infidelity in local operations is of order 0.1%. Our tolerance of network noise is therefore a order of magnitude beyond prior schemes, and our architecture remains robust even in the presence of considerable decoherence rates (memory errors). We compare the performance with that of schemes involving nodes of lower and higher complexity. Ion traps, and NV- centres in diamond, are two highly relevant emerging technologies.

id: 1204.0521
title: Explicit receivers for pure-interference bosonic multiple access channels
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Saikat Guha
comments: v1: 9 pages, 2 figures, submission to the 2012 International Symposium on Information Theory and its Applications (ISITA 2012), Honolulu, Hawaii, USA; v2: minor changes
journal: Proceedings of the 2012 International Symposium on Information Theory and its Applications, pages 303-307, October 2012. Available at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?arnumber=6400941
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0521
abstract: The pure-interference bosonic multiple access channel has two senders and one receiver, such that the senders each communicate with multiple temporal modes of a single spatial mode of light. The channel mixes the input modes from the two users pairwise on a lossless beamsplitter, and the receiver has access to one of the two output ports. In prior work, Yen and Shapiro found the capacity region of this channel if encodings consist of coherent-state preparations. Here, we demonstrate how to achieve the coherent-state Yen-Shapiro region (for a range of parameters) using a sequential decoding strategy, and we show that our strategy outperforms the rate regions achievable using conventional receivers. Our receiver performs binary-outcome quantum measurements for every codeword pair in the senders' codebooks. A crucial component of this scheme is a non-destructive "vacuum-or-not" measurement that projects an n-symbol modulated codeword onto the n-fold vacuum state or its orthogonal complement, such that the post-measurement state is either the n-fold vacuum or has the vacuum removed from the support of the n symbols' joint quantum state. This receiver requires the additional ability to perform multimode optical phase-space displacements which are realizable using a beamsplitter and a laser.

id: 1204.0553
title: Entanglement in atomic systems interacting with single-photon pulses in free space
authors: J. P. Santos, F. L. Semi?o
comments: Slightly changed title and expanded text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053825 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0553
abstract: New technologies providing tight focusing lens and mirrors with large numerical apertures and electro-optic modulation of single photons are now available for the investigation of photon-atom interactions without a cavity. From the theoretical side, new models must be developed which take into account the intrinsic open system aspect of the problem as well as details about atomic relative positions and temporal (spectral) features of the pulses. In this paper, we investigate the generation of nonclassical correlations between two atoms in free space interacting with a quantized pulse containing just one single photon. For this purpose, we develop a general theoretical approach which allows us to find the equations of motion for single- and two-body atomic operators from which we obtained the system density operator. We show that one single photon is capable of promoting substantial entanglement between two initially ground state atoms, and we analyze the dependence of these correlations on atomic relative positions (vacuum effects) and spectral features of the single photon pulse.

id: 1204.0565
title: Measurement-induced nonlocality over two-sided projective measurements
authors: Yu Guo
comments: 12 pages
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B Vol. 27, No. 16 (2013) 1350067
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0565
abstract: Measurement-induced nonlocality (MiN), introduced by Luo and Fu [Phys. Rev. Lett. 106(2011)120401], is a kind of quantum correlation that beyond entanglement and even beyond quantum discord. Recently, we extended MiN to infinite-dimensional bipartite system [arXiv:1107.0355]. MiN is defined over one-sided projective measurements. In this letter we introduce a measurement-induced nonlocality over two-sided projective measurements. The nullity of this two-sided MiN is characterized, a formula for calculating two-sided MiN for pure states is proposed, and a lower bound of (two-sided) MiN for maximally entangled mixed states is given. In addition, we find that (two-sided) MiN is not continuous. The two-sided geometric measure of quantum discord (GMQD) is introduced in [Phys. Lett. A 376(2012)320--324]. We extend it to infinite-dimensional system and then compare it with the two-sided MiN. Both finite- and infinite-dimensional cases are considered.

id: 1204.0567
title: Simulating chemistry efficiently on fault-tolerant quantum computers
authors: N. Cody Jones, James D. Whitfield, Peter L. McMahon, Man-Hong Yung, Rodney Van Meter, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 33 pages, 18 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 115023 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0567
abstract: Quantum computers can in principle simulate quantum physics exponentially faster than their classical counterparts, but some technical hurdles remain. Here we consider methods to make proposed chemical simulation algorithms computationally fast on fault-tolerant quantum computers in the circuit model. Fault tolerance constrains the choice of available gates, so that arbitrary gates required for a simulation algorithm must be constructed from sequences of fundamental operations. We examine techniques for constructing arbitrary gates which perform substantially faster than circuits based on the conventional Solovay-Kitaev algorithm [C.M. Dawson and M.A. Nielsen, \emph{Quantum Inf. Comput.}, \textbf{6}:81, 2006]. For a given approximation error $\epsilon$, arbitrary single-qubit gates can be produced fault-tolerantly and using a limited set of gates in time which is $O(\log \epsilon)$ or $O(\log \log \epsilon)$; with sufficient parallel preparation of ancillas, constant average depth is possible using a method we call programmable ancilla rotations. Moreover, we construct and analyze efficient implementations of first- and second-quantized simulation algorithms using the fault-tolerant arbitrary gates and other techniques, such as implementing various subroutines in constant time. A specific example we analyze is the ground-state energy calculation for Lithium hydride.

id: 1204.0614
title: A conjecture concerning determinism and phases in quantum mechanics
authors: Arthur Jabs
comments: Latex, 27 pages, 2 figures, shorter and more clearly arranged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0614
abstract: It is shown that it is possible to introduce determinism into quantum mechanics by tracing the probabilities in the Born rules back to pseudorandomness in the absolute phase constants of the wave functions. Each wave function is conceived to contain an individual phase factor exp(i alpha). In an ensemble of systems the phase constants alpha are taken to be pseudorandom numbers. A reduction process (collapse) of the wave function, independent of any measurement, is conceived to be a spatial contraction, and a criterion is conjectured of when and where it occurs. It depends on the phase constants of both the considered wave function and that of a small cluster in its environment. A measurement apparatus offers an appropriate environment and associates the point of contraction with an eigenvalue of the observable. The theory is nonlocal and contextual.

id: 1204.0617
title: Entanglement generation in relativistic quantum fields
authors: Nicolai Friis, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, Ivette Fuentes previously published as Ivette Fuentes-Guridi and Ivette Fuentes-Schuller; v2: published version (online), to appear in the J. Mod. Opt. Special Issue on the Physics of Quantum Electronics
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 60, 22-27 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0617
abstract: We present a general, analytic recipe to compute the entanglement that is generated between arbitrary, discrete modes of bosonic quantum fields by Bogoliubov transformations. Our setup allows the complete characterization of the quantum correlations in all Gaussian field states. Additionally, it holds for all Bogoliubov transformations. These are commonly applied in quantum optics for the description of squeezing operations, relate the mode decompositions of observers in different regions of curved spacetimes, and describe observers moving along non-stationary trajectories. We focus on a quantum optical example in a cavity quantum electrodynamics setting: an uncharged scalar field within a cavity provides a model for an optical resonator, in which entanglement is created by non-uniform acceleration. We show that the amount of generated entanglement can be magnified by initial single-mode squeezing, for which we provide an explicit formula. Applications to quantum fields in curved spacetimes, such as an expanding universe, are discussed.

id: 1204.0661
title: An introduction to multi-player, multi-choice quantum games
authors: Puya Sharif, Hoshang Heydari
comments: 21 pages. To be published in Proceedings for Econophys - Kolkata VI (Econophysics of systemic risk and network dynamics)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0661
abstract: We give a self contained introduction to a few quantum game protocols, starting with the quantum version of the two-player two-choice game of Prisoners dilemma, followed by a n-player generalization trough the quantum minority games, and finishing with a contribution towards a n-player m-choice generalization with a quantum version of a three-player Kolkata restaurant problem. We have omitted some technical details accompanying these protocols, and instead laid the focus on presenting some general aspects of the field as a whole. This review contains an introduction to the formalism of quantum information theory, as well as to important game theoretical concepts, and is aimed to work as an introduction suiting economists and game theorists with limited knowledge of quantum physics as well as to physicists with limited knowledge of game theory.

id: 1204.0670
title: The Driven-Oscillator Evolution in the Tomografic-Probability Representation
authors: Dmitry B. Lemeshevskiy, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 11 pages. Submitted to Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0670
abstract: We consider the problem of the driven harmonic oscillator in the probability representation of quantum mechanics, where the oscillator states are described by fair nonnegative probability distributions of position measured in rotated and squeezed reference frames in the system's phase space. For some specific oscillator states like coherent states and nth excited states, the tomographic-probability distributions (called the state tomograms) are found in an explicit form. The evolution equation for the tomograms is discussed for the classical and quantum driven oscillators, and the tomographic propagator for this equation is studied.

id: 1204.0678
title: Higher (2nd)-order polarization-Wigner function for `even' entangled bi-modal coherent states
authors: Ravi S. Singh, Sunil P. Singh, Lallan Yadava, Gyaneshwar K. Gupta
comments: 13 pages and 6 Figures. Communicated. Incisive comments are invited
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0678
abstract: Higher (2nd)-order Wigner distribution function in quantum phase space for entangled bi-modal coherent states, a representative of higher (2nd)-order optical-polarization, is introduced by generalizing kernel (transiting) operator in Cahill-Glauber C(s)-correspondence rule. The nature is analyzed which reveals the occurrence of oscillating three peaks: 'two' for individual bi-modes and third for interference between modes. Also, the graphics of 2nd-order polarization-Wigner distribution function, incisively, demonstrates that it is of non-Gaussian nature attaining non-negative values in quantum phase space.

id: 1204.0701
title: Almost quantum theory
authors: Benjamin Schumacher, Michael D. Westmoreland
comments: 46 pages; submitted chapter for book "Quantum Theory: Informational Foundations and Foils"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0701
abstract: Modal quantum theory (MQT) is a "toy model" of quantum theory in which amplitudes are elements of a general field. The theory predicts, not the probabilities of a measurement result, but only whether or not a result is possible. In this paper we review MQT and extend it to include mixed states, generalized measurements and open system dynamics. Even though MQT does not have density operators, superoperators or any concept of "positivity", we can nevertheless establish a precise analogue to the usual representation theorem for CP maps. We also embed MQT in a larger class of modal theories. We show that the possibility assignments for separate measurements on a bipartite system in MQT are always weakly consistent with some probability assignment that respects the no-signalling principle.

id: 1204.0711
title: Quantum state discrimination bounds for finite sample size
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert, Milan Mosonyi, Frank Verstraete
comments: 31 pages. v4: A few typos corrected. To appear in J.Math.Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 122205 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0711
abstract: In the problem of quantum state discrimination, one has to determine by measurements the state of a quantum system, based on the a priori side information that the true state is one of two given and completely known states, rho or sigma. In general, it is not possible to decide the identity of the true state with certainty, and the optimal measurement strategy depends on whether the two possible errors (mistaking rho for sigma, or the other way around) are treated as of equal importance or not. Results on the quantum Chernoff and Hoeffding bounds and the quantum Stein's lemma show that, if several copies of the system are available then the optimal error probabilities decay exponentially in the number of copies, and the decay rate is given by a certain statistical distance between rho and sigma (the Chernoff distance, the Hoeffding distances, and the relative entropy, respectively). While these results provide a complete solution to the asymptotic problem, they are not completely satisfying from a practical point of view. Indeed, in realistic scenarios one has access only to finitely many copies of a system, and therefore it is desirable to have bounds on the error probabilities for finite sample size. In this paper we provide finite-size bounds on the so-called Stein errors, the Chernoff errors, the Hoeffding errors and the mixed error probabilities related to the Chernoff and the Hoeffding errors.

id: 1204.0720
title: Back-reaction of perturbation wave packets on gray solitons
authors: P. B. Walczak, J. R. Anglin
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0720
abstract: Within the Bogoliubov-de Gennes linearization theory of quantum or classical perturbations around a background solution to the one-dimensional nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation, we study the back-reaction of wave packet perturbations on a gray soliton background. From our recently published exact solutions, we determine that a wave packet effectively jumps ahead as it passes through a soliton, emerging with a wavelength-dependent forward translation in comparison to its motion in absence of the soliton. From this and from the full theory's exact momentum conservation, we deduce that post-Bogoliubov back-reaction must include a commensurate forward advance by the soliton itself. We quantify this effect with a simple theory, and confirm that it agrees with full numerical solution of the classical nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation. We briefly discuss the implications of this effect for quantum behavior of solitons in quasi-condensed dilute gases at finite temperature.

id: 1204.0738
title: Modeling a measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution system
authors: Philip Chan, Joshua A. Slater, Itzel Lucio-Martinez, Allison Rubenok, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 22, Issue 11, pp. 12716-12736 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0738
abstract: We present a detailed description of a widely applicable mathematical model for quantum key distribution (QKD) systems implementing the measurement-device-independent (MDI) protocol. The model is tested by comparing its predictions with data taken using a proof-of-principle, time-bin qubit-based QKD system in a secure laboratory environment (i.e. in a setting in which eavesdropping can be excluded). The good agreement between the predictions and the experimental data allows the model to be used to optimize mean photon numbers per attenuated laser pulse, which are used to encode quantum bits. This in turn allows optimization of secret key rates of existing MDI-QKD systems, identification of rate-limiting components, and projection of future performance. In addition, we also performed measurements over deployed fiber, showing that our system's performance is not affected by environment-induced perturbations.

id: 1204.0741
title: Eigenvalue Distributions of Reduced Density Matrices
authors: Matthias Christandl, Brent Doran, Stavros Kousidis, Michael Walter
comments: 51 pages, 7 figures
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 332, 1-52 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0741
abstract: Given a random quantum state of multiple distinguishable or indistinguishable particles, we provide an effective method, rooted in symplectic geometry, to compute the joint probability distribution of the eigenvalues of its one-body reduced density matrices. As a corollary, by taking the distribution's support, which is a convex moment polytope, we recover a complete solution to the one-body quantum marginal problem. We obtain the probability distribution by reducing to the corresponding distribution of diagonal entries (i.e., to the quantitative version of a classical marginal problem), which is then determined algorithmically. This reduction applies more generally to symplectic geometry, relating invariant measures for the coadjoint action of a compact Lie group to their projections onto a Cartan subalgebra, and can also be quantized to provide an efficient algorithm for computing bounded height Kronecker and plethysm coefficients.

id: 1204.0760
title: Modelling an observer's branch of extremal consciousness
authors: L. Polley
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0760
abstract: Extreme-order statistics is applied to the branches of an observer in a many-worlds framework. A unitary evolution operator for a step of time is constructed, generating pseudostochastic behaviour with a power-law distribution when applied repeatedly to a particular initial state. The operator models the generation of records, their dating, the splitting of the wavefunction at quantum events, and the recalling of records by the observer. Due to the huge ensemble near an observer's end, the branch with the largest number of records recalled contains almost all "conscious dimension".

id: 1204.0780
title: Entanglement control in hybrid optomechanical systems
authors: B. Rogers, M. Paternostro, G. M. Palma, G. De Chiara
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042323 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0780
abstract: We demonstrate the control of entanglement in a hybrid optomechanical system comprising an optical cavity with a mechanical end-mirror and an intracavity Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). Pulsed laser light (tuned within realistic experimental conditions) is shown to induce an almost sixfold increase of the atom-mirror entanglement and to be responsible for interesting dynamics between such mesoscopic systems. In order to assess the advantages offered by the proposed control technique, we compare the time-dependent dynamics of the system under constant pumping with the evolution due to the modulated laser light.

id: 1204.0783
title: Simple variational approaches to quantum wells
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0783
abstract: We discuss two simple variational approaches to quantum wells. The trial harmonic functions analyzed in an earlier paper give reasonable results for all well depths and are particularly suitable for deep wells. On the other hand, the exponential functions proposed here are preferable for shallow wells. We compare the shallow-well expansions for both kind of functions and show that they do not exhibit the cubic term appearing in the exact series. It is also shown that the deep-well expansion for the harmonic functions agree with the first terms of perturbation theory.

id: 1204.0792
title: Practical learning method for multi-scale entangled states
authors: Olivier Landon-Cardinal, David Poulin
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14 085004 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0792
abstract: We describe a method for reconstructing multi-scale entangled states from a small number of efficiently-implementable measurements and fast post-processing. The method only requires single particle measurements and the total number of measurements is polynomial in the number of particles. Data post-processing for state reconstruction uses standard tools, namely matrix diagonalisation and conjugate gradient method, and scales polynomially with the number of particles. Our method prevents the build-up of errors from both numerical and experimental imperfections.

id: 1204.0805
title: Non-Hermitian approach for modeling of noise-assisted quantum electron transfer in photosynthetic complexes
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, Gennady P. Berman, Alan R. Bishop
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: Fortschr. Phys., (2012), 1-16
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0805
abstract: We model the quantum electron transfer (ET) in the photosynthetic reaction center (RC), using a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian approach. Our model includes (i) two protein cofactors, donor and acceptor, with discrete energy levels and (ii) a third protein pigment (sink) which has a continuous energy spectrum. Interactions are introduced between the donor and acceptor, and between the acceptor and the sink, with noise acting between the donor and acceptor. The noise is considered classically (as an external random force), and it is described by an ensemble of two-level systems (random fluctuators). Each fluctuator has two independent parameters, an amplitude and a switching rate. We represent the noise by a set of fluctuators with fitting parameters (boundaries of switching rates), which allows us to build a desired spectral density of noise in a wide range of frequencies. We analyze the quantum dynamics and the efficiency of the ET as a function of (i) the energy gap between the donor and acceptor, (ii) the strength of the interaction with the continuum, and (iii) noise parameters. As an example, numerical results are presented for the ET through the active pathway in a quinone-type photosystem II RC.

id: 1204.0810
title: Stimulated generation of superluminal light pulses via four-wave mixing
authors: Ryan T. Glasser, Ulrich Vogl, Paul D. Lett
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0810
abstract: We report on the four-wave mixing of superluminal pulses, in which both the injected and generated pulses involved in the process propagate with negative group velocities. Generated pulses with negative group velocities of up to $v_{g}=-1/880c$ are demonstrated, corresponding to the generated pulse's peak exiting the 1.7\,cm long medium $\approx50$\,ns earlier than if it had propagated at the speed of light in vacuum, $c$. We also show that in some cases the seeded pulse may propagate with a group velocity larger than $c$, and that the generated conjugate pulse peak may exit the medium even earlier than the amplified seed pulse peak. We can control the group velocities of the two pulses by changing the seed detuning and the input seed power.

id: 1204.0825
title: Extended quantum conditional entropy and quantum uncertainty inequalities
authors: Rupert L. Frank, Elliott H. Lieb
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0825
abstract: Quantum states can be subjected to classical measurements, whose incompatibility, or uncertainty, can be quantified by a comparison of certain entropies. There is a long history of such entropy inequalities between position and momentum. Recently these inequalities have been generalized to the tensor product of several Hilbert spaces and we show here how their derivations can be shortened to a few lines and how they can be generalized. All the recently derived uncertainty relations utilize the strong subadditivity (SSA) theorem; our contribution relies on directly utilizing the proof technique of the original derivation of SSA.

id: 1204.0850
title: Experimental implementation of a fully controllable depolarizing quantum operation
authors: Youn-Chang Jeong, Jong-Chan Lee, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0850
abstract: The depolarizing quantum operation plays an important role in studying the quantum noise effect and implementing general quantum operations. In this work, we report a scheme which implements a fully controllable input-state independent depolarizing quantum operation for a photonic polarization qubit.

id: 1204.0860
title: Single-atom quantum memory with degenerate atomic levels
authors: V. A. Reshetov, E. N. Popov
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1203.4390
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 175501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0860
abstract: The storage and retrieval of a single-photon polarization q-bit by means of STIRAP through the atoms with degenerate levels is studied theoretically for arbitrary polarization of the driving laser field and arbitrary values of the angular momenta of resonant atomic levels. The dependence of the probability of long-term photon storage on the polarization of the driving field and on the initial atomic state is examined.

id: 1204.0888
title: QPSK coherent state discrimination via a hybrid receiver
authors: Christian R. M¨¹ller, Mario A. Usuga, Christoffer Wittmann, Masahiro Takeoka, Christoph Marquardt, Ulrik L. Andersen, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 
journal: C R M\"uller et al 2012 New J. Phys. 14 083009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0888
abstract: We propose and experimentally demonstrate a near-optimal discrimination scheme for the quadrature phase shift keying protocol (QPSK). We show in theory that the performance of our hybrid scheme is superior to the standard scheme - heterodyne detection - for all signal amplitudes and underpin the predictions with our experimental results. Furthermore, our scheme provides the hitherto best performance in the domain of highly attenuated signals. The discrimination is composed of a quadrature measurement, a conditional displacement and a threshold detector.

id: 1204.0889
title: The Role of Temperature in the occurrence of some Zeno Phenomena
authors: B. Militello
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 064102 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0889
abstract: Temperature can be responsible for strengthening effective couplings between quantum states, determining a hierarchy of interactions, and making it possible to establish such dynamical regimes known as Zeno dynamics, wherein a strong coupling can hinder the effects of a weak one. The relevant physical mechanisms which connect the structure of a thermal state with the appearance of special dynamical regimes are analyzed in depth.

id: 1204.0891
title: Efficient quantum communication under collective noise
authors: Michael Skotiniotis, Wolfgang D¨¹r, Barbara Kraus
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures and 2 appendices (v2). Version 3 (published version) contains minor changes, an extra appendix, updated affiliations, acknowledgements, and references
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 13, number 3&4, 0290-0323, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0891
abstract: We introduce a new quantum communication protocol for the transmission of quantum information under collective noise. Our protocol utilizes a decoherence-free subspace in such a way that an optimal asymptotic transmission rate is achieved, while at the same time encoding and decoding operations can be efficiently implemented. The encoding and decoding circuit requires a number of elementary gates that scale linearly with the number of transmitted qudits, m. The logical depth of our encoding and decoding operations is constant and depends only on the channel in question. For channels described by an arbitrary discrete group G, i.e. with a discrete number, |G|, of possible noise operators, perfect transmission at a rate m/(m+r) is achieved with an overhead that scales at most as $\mathcal{O}(d^r)$ where the number of auxiliary qudits, r, depends solely on the group in question. Moreover, this overhead is independent of the number of transmitted qudits, m. For certain groups, e.g. cyclic groups, we find that the overhead scales only linearly with the number of group elements |G|.

id: 1204.0904
title: Heat transport through lattices of quantum harmonic oscillators in arbitrary dimensions
authors: A. Asadian, D. Manzano, M. Tiersch, H. J. Briegel
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 012109 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0904
abstract: In d-dimensional lattices of coupled quantum harmonic oscillators, we analyze the heat current caused by two thermal baths of different temperature, which are coupled to opposite ends of the lattice, with focus on the validity of Fourier's law of heat conduction. We provide analytical solutions of the heat current through the quantum system in the non-equilibrium steady state using the rotating-wave approximation and bath interactions described by a master equation of Lindblad form. The influence of local dephasing in the transition of ballistic to diffusive transport is investigated.

id: 1204.0932
title: Complete control of a matter qubit using a single picosecond laser pulse
authors: Y. Kodriano, I. Schwartz, E. Poem, Y. Benny, R. Presman, T. A. Truong, P. M. Petroff, D. Gershoni
comments: main text: 4 pages, 3 figures Supplemental material: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 241304(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0932
abstract: We demonstrate for the first time that a matter physical two level system, a qubit, can be fully controlled using one ultrafast step. We show that the spin state of an optically excited electron, an exciton, confined in a quantum dot, can be rotated by any desired angle, about any desired axis, during such a step. For this we use a single, resonantly tuned, picosecond long, polarized optical pulse. The polarization of the pulse defines the rotation axis, while the pulse detuning from a non-degenerate absorption resonance, defines the magnitude of the rotation angle. We thereby achieve a high fidelity, universal gate operation, applicable to other spin systems, using only one short optical pulse. The operation duration equals the pulse temporal width, orders of magnitude shorter than the qubit evolution life and coherence times.

id: 1204.0953
title: Unified analytical treatments to qubit-oscillator systems
authors: Shu He, Yu-Yu Zhang, Qing-Hu Chen, Xue-Zao Ren, Tao Liu, Ke-Lin Wang
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Chinese Physics B 22, 064205 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0953
abstract: An effective scheme within two displaced bosonic operators with equal positive and negative displacements is extended to study qubit-oscillator systems analytically in an unified way. Many previous analytical treatments, such as generalized rotating-wave approximation (GRWA) [Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 173601 (2007)] and an expansion in the qubit tunneling matrix element in the deep strong coupling regime [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 263603 (2010)] can be recovered straightforwardly in the present scheme. Moreover, further improving GRWA and extension to the finite-bias case are implemented easily. The analytical expressions are then derived explicitly and uniquely, which work well in a wide range of the coupling strengthes, detunings, and static bias including the recent experimentally accessible parameters.

id: 1204.0954
title: Avoiding dark states in open quantum systems by tailored initial correlations
authors: Piet Schijven, Oliver Muelken
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85 062102 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0954
abstract: We study the transport of excitations on a V-shaped network of three coupled two-level systems that are subjected to an environment that induces incoherent hopping between the nodes. Two of the nodes are coupled to a source while the third node is coupled to a drain. A common feature of these networks is the existence of a dark-state that blocks the transport to the drain. Here we propose a means to avoid this state by a suitable choice of initial correlations, induced by a source that is common to both coupled nodes.

id: 1204.0983
title: Generalized form of optimal teleportation witnesses
authors: Atul Kumar, Satyabrata Adhikari, Pankaj Agrawal
comments: Accepted in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quant.Inf.Proc. 12, 2475 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0983
abstract: We propose a generalized form of optimal teleportation witness to demonstrate their importance in experimental detection of the larger set of entangled states useful for teleportation in higher dimensional systems. The interesting properties of our witness reveal that teleportation witness can be used to characterize mixed state entanglement using Schmidt numbers. Our results show that while every teleportation witness is also a entanglement witness, the converse is not true. Also, we show that a hermitian operator is a teleportation witness iff it is a decomposable entanglement witness. In addition, we analyze the practical significance of our study by decomposing our teleportation witness in terms of Pauli and Gell-Mann matrices, which are experimentally measurable quantities.

id: 1204.0990
title: Realization of the purely spatial Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox in full-field images of spontaneous parametric down conversion
authors: Paul-Antoine Moreau, Jo¨¦ Mougin-Sisini, Fabrice Devaux, Eric Lantz
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 010101(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0990
abstract: We demonstrate Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entanglement by detecting purely spatial quantum correlations in the near and far fields of spontaneous parametric down-conversion generated in a type-2 beta barium borate crystal. Full-field imaging is performed in the photon-counting regime with an electron-multiplying CCD camera. The data are used without any postselection, and we obtain a violation of Heisenberg inequalities with inferred quantities taking into account all the biphoton pairs in both the near and far fields by integration on the entire two-dimensional transverse planes. This ensures a rigorous demonstration of the EPR paradox in its original position momentum form.

id: 1204.0996
title: Operator entanglement of two-qubit joint unitary operations revisited: Schmidt number approach
authors: Hui-Zhi Xia, Chao Li, Qing Yang, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: To appear in the Brazilian Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0996
abstract: Operator entanglement of two-qubit joint unitary operations is revisited. Schmidt number is an important attribute of a two-qubit unitary operation, and may have connection with the entanglement measure of the unitary operator. We found the entanglement measure of two-qubit unitary operators is classified by the Schmidt number of the unitary operators. The exact relation between the operator entanglement and the parameters of the unitary operator is clarified too.

id: 1204.1050
title: A study of Wigner functions for discrete-time quantum walks
authors: M. Hinarejos, M.C. Banuls, A. Perez
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1050
abstract: We perform a systematic study of the discrete time Quantum Walk on one dimension using Wigner functions, which are generalized to include the chirality (or coin) degree of freedom. In particular, we analyze the evolution of the negative volume in phase space, as a function of time, for different initial states. This negativity can be used to quantify the degree of departure of the system from a classical state. We also relate this quantity to the entanglement between the coin and walker subspaces.

id: 1204.1063
title: Commuting Pauli Hamiltonians as maps between free modules
authors: Jeongwan Haah
comments: amsart 48 pages; (v2) minor change, ref. added, (v3) stronger conclusion about topological charges, (v4) comments and ref. added, reproducing the result of 1103.1885
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 324(2), 351-399 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1063
abstract: We study unfrustrated spin Hamiltonians that consist of commuting tensor products of Pauli matrices. Assuming translation-invariance, a family of Hamiltonians that belong to the same phase of matter is described by a map between modules over the translation-group algebra, so homological methods are applicable. In any dimension every point-like charge appears as a vertex of a fractal operator, and can be isolated with energy barrier at most logarithmic in the separation distance. For a topologically ordered system in three dimensions, there must exist a point-like nontrivial charge. If the ground-state degeneracy is upper bounded by a constant independent of the system size, then the topological charges in three dimensions always appear at the end points of string operators. A connection between the ground state degeneracy and the number of points on an algebraic set is discussed. Tools to handle local Clifford unitary transformations are given.

id: 1204.1071
title: Underlining some limitations of the statistical formalism in quantum mechanics: Reply to the Comment of Bodor and Di¨®si
authors: F. Fratini, A. G. Hayrapetyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1071
abstract: In a paper of us, it is showed that Density Matrices do not provide a complete description of ensembles of states in quantum mechanics, since they lack measurable information concerning the preparation of the ensembles. Bodor and Di\'osi have later posted a comment on that article, which agrees on some points of it but disagrees on some others. This reply is intended to clarify the discussion.

id: 1204.1072
title: Generalized Semi-Quantum Secret Sharing Schemes
authors: Vlad Gheorghiu
comments: Replaced by published version, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052309 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1072
abstract: We investigate quantum secret sharing schemes constructed from $[[n,k,\delta]]_D$ non-binary stabilizer quantum error correcting codes with carrier qudits of prime dimension $D$. We provide a systematic way of determining the access structure, which completely determines the forbidden and intermediate structures. We then show that the information available to the intermediate structure can be fully described and quantified by what we call the *information group*, a subgroup of the Pauli group of $k$ qudits, and employ this group structure to construct a method for hiding the information from the intermediate structure via twirling of the information group and sharing of classical bits between the dealer and the players. Our scheme allows the transformation of a ramp (intermediate) quantum secret sharing scheme into a semi-quantum perfect secret sharing scheme with the same access structure as the ramp one but without any intermediate subsets, and is optimal in the amount of classical bits the dealer has to distribute.

id: 1204.1130
title: Multimode image memory based on a cold atomic ensemble
authors: Dong-Sheng Ding, Jing-Hui Wu, Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Yang Liu, Bao-Sen Shi, Xu-Bo Zou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87, 013835 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1130
abstract: Quantum memory is one of key ingredients consisting of quantum networks, therefore storing light at single photon level is an important step for realizing quantum networks. A photon, encoded in a high-dimensional state, can significantly increase the information capacity that a photon can carry. Furthermore, quantum memories with the ability to store multiple optical modes offer advantages in speed and robustness over single mode memories in quantum communication and computation. So far, there is no any report about the storage and retrieval of multiple mode images at single photon level. Here, we give a first experimental demonstration to our best knowledge, that two spatial probe fields at single photon level, each imprinted a real image, can be stored and retrieved with a considerable visibility and similarity through electromagnetically induced transparency in cold atomic ensemble. The accomplishment of multiple modes quantum image memory would move closer towards high dimensional quantum networks.

id: 1204.1212
title: Kind of entanglement that speeds up quantum evolution
authors: Florian Fr?wis
comments: 5+ pages, 2 figures. Comments are welcome! v2: Correction of several typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052127 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1212
abstract: The "speed" of unitary quantum evolution was recently shown to be connected to entanglement in multipartite quantum systems. Here, we discuss a tighter version of the Mandelstam-Tamm uncertainty relation that depends on the Fisher information. The passage time is estimated by a lower bound that depends inversely proportional to the square root of the Fisher information. This leads to a better understanding of the origin of a fast quantum time evolution of entangled states.

id: 1204.1217
title: Quantum discord evolution of three-qubit states under noisy channels
authors: M. Mahdian, R. Yousefjani, S. Salimi
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in EPJ D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2012) 66: 133
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1217
abstract: We investigated the dissipative dynamics of quantum discord for correlated qubits under Markovian environments. The basic idea in the present scheme is that quantum discord is more general, and possibly more robust and fundamental, than entanglement. We provide three initially correlated qubits in pure Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) or W state and analyse the time evolution of the quantum discord under various dissipative channels such as: Pauli channels $\sigma_{x}$, $\sigma_{y}$, and $\sigma_{z}$, as well as depolarising channels. Surprisingly, we find that under the action of Pauli channel $\sigma_{x}$, the quantum discord of GHZ state is not affected by decoherence. For the remaining dissipative channels, the W state is more robust than the GHZ state against decoherence. Moreover, we compare the dynamics of entanglement with that of the quantum discord under the conditions in which disentanglement occurs and show that quantum discord is more robust than entanglement except for phase flip coupling of the three qubits system to the environment.

id: 1204.1257
title: Coulomb potential and the paradoxes of PT-symmetrization
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 16 pp., 3 figs., compact review written for conference proceedings dedicated to Peter Leach on his 70th birthday (this http URL)
journal: J. Engineering Math. 82, Issue 1, pp 173-185, October 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1257
abstract: Besides the standard quantum version of the Coulomb/Kepler problem, an alternative quantum model with not too dissimilar phenomenological (i.e., spectral and scattering) as well as mathematical (i.e., exact-solvability) properties may be formulated and solved. Several aspects of this model are described. The paper is made self-contained by explaining the underlying innovative quantization strategy which assigns an entirely new role to symmetries.

id: 1204.1278
title: Geometric phases in superconducting qubits beyond the two-level-approximation
authors: S. Berger, M. Pechal, S. Pugnetti, A. A. Abdumalikov Jr, L. Steffen, A. Fedorov, A. Wallraff, S. Filipp
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review B 85, 220502(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1278
abstract: Geometric phases, which accompany the evolution of a quantum system and depend only on its trajectory in state space, are commonly studied in two-level systems. Here, however, we study the adiabatic geometric phase in a weakly anharmonic and strongly driven multi-level system, realised as a superconducting transmon-type circuit. We measure the contribution of the second excited state to the two-level geometric phase and find good agreement with theory treating higher energy levels perturbatively. By changing the evolution time, we confirm the independence of the geometric phase of time and explore the validity of the adiabatic approximation at the transition to the non-adiabatic regime.

id: 1204.1287
title: Decoherence on a two-dimensional quantum walk using four- and two-state particle
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar, Th. Busch
comments: 12 pages, 16 figures, In Press, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. (2013)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 105306 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1287
abstract: We study the decoherence effects originating from state flipping and depolarization for two-dimensional discrete-time quantum walks using four-state and two-state particles. By quantifying the quantum correlations between the particle and position degree of freedom and between the two spatial ($x-y$) degrees of freedom using measurement induced disturbance (MID), we show that the two schemes using a two-state particle are more robust against decoherence than the Grover walk, which uses a four-state particle. We also show that the symmetries which hold for two-state quantum walks breakdown for the Grover walk, adding to the various other advantages of using two-state particles over four-state particles.

id: 1204.1289
title: Entanglement Detection Using Majorization Uncertainty Bounds
authors: M. Hossein Partovi
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022309 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1289
abstract: Entanglement detection criteria are developed within the framework of the majorization formulation of uncertainty. The primary results are two theorems asserting linear and nonlinear separability criteria based on majorization relations, the violation of which would imply entanglement. Corollaries to these theorems yield infinite sets of scalar entanglement detection criteria based on quasi-entropic measures of disorder. Examples are analyzed to probe the efficacy of the derived criteria in detecting the entanglement of bipartite Werner states. Characteristics of the majorization relation as a comparator of disorder uniquely suited to information-theoretical applications are emphasized throughout.

id: 1204.1293
title: Imaging high-dimensional spatial entanglement with a camera
authors: Matthew P. Edgar, Daniel S. Tasca, Frauke Izdebski, Ryan E. Warburton, Jonathan Leach, Megan Agnew, Gerald S. Buller, Robert W. Boyd, Miles J. Padgett
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 3:984 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1293
abstract: The light produced by parametric down-conversion shows strong spatial entanglement that leads to violations of EPR criteria for separability. Historically, such studies have been performed by scanning a single-element, single-photon detector across a detection plane. Here we show that modern electron-multiplying charge-coupled device cameras can measure correlations in both position and momentum across a multi-pixel field of view. This capability allows us to observe entanglement of around 2,500 spatial states and demonstrate Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen type correlations by more than two orders of magnitude. More generally, our work shows that cameras can lead to important new capabilities in quantum optics and quantum information science.

id: 1204.1302
title: Visualizing the Quantum Interaction Picture in Phase Space
authors: Bahar Mehmani, Andrea Aiello
comments: Submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: European Journal of Physics 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1302
abstract: We illustrate the correspondence between the quantum Interaction Picture-evolution of the state of a quantum system in Hilbert space and a combination of local and global transformations of its Wigner function in phase space. To this aim, we consider the time-evolution of a quantized harmonic oscillator driven by both a linear and a quadratic (in terms of bosonic creation and annihilation operators) potentials and employ the Magnus series to derive the exact form of the time-evolution operator. In this case, the Interaction Picture corresponds to a local transformation of phase space-reference frame into the one that is co-moving with the Wigner function.

id: 1204.1363
title: Mixed-state quantum transport in correlated spin networks
authors: Ashok Ajoy, Paola Cappellaro
comments: 
journal: PRA 85, 042305 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1363
abstract: Quantum spin networks can be used to transport information between separated registers in a quantum information processor. To find a practical implementation, the strict requirements of ideal models for perfect state transfer need to be relaxed, allowing for complex coupling topologies and general initial states. Here we analyze transport in complex quantum spin networks in the maximally mixed state and derive explicit conditions that should be satisfied by propagators for perfect state transport. Using a description of the transport process as a quantum walk over the network, we show that it is necessary to phase correlate the transport processes occurring along all the possible paths in the network. We provide a Hamiltonian that achieves this correlation, and use it in a constructive method to derive engineered couplings for perfect transport in complicated network topologies.

id: 1204.1382
title: Using the J1-J2 Quantum Spin Chain as an Adiabatic Quantum Data Bus
authors: Nicholas Chancellor, Stephan Haas
comments: 14 pages, 13 figures (2 added), revisions made to add citations and additional discussion at request of referees
journal: New J. Phys. 14 095025 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1382
abstract: This paper investigates numerically a phenomenon which can be used to transport a single q-bit down a J1-J2 Heisenberg spin chain using a quantum adiabatic process. The motivation for investigating such processes comes from the idea that this method of transport could potentially be used as a means of sending data to various parts of a quantum computer made of artificial spins, and that this method could take advantage of the easily prepared ground state at the so called Majumdar-Ghosh point. We examine several annealing protocols for this process and find similar result for all of them. The annealing process works well up to a critical frustration threshold.

id: 1204.1397
title: Experimental signatures of the quantum-classical transition in a nanomechanical oscillator modeled as a damped driven double-well problem
authors: Qi Li, Arie Kapulkin, Dustin Anderson, Shao Min Tan, Arjendu K. Pattanayak
comments: Proceedings of the conference FMQT 11
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1397
abstract: We demonstrate robust and reliable signatures for the transition from quantum to classical behavior in the position probability distribution of a damped double-well system using the Qunatum State Diffusion approach to open quantum systems. We argue that these signatures are within experimental reach, for example in a doubly-clamped nanomechanical beam.

id: 1204.1487
title: Quantum Statistics of Surface Plasmon Polaritons in Metallic Stripe Waveguides
authors: Giuliana Di Martino, Yannick Sonnefraud, St¨¦phane K¨¦na-Cohen, Mark Tame, ?ahin K. ?zdemir, M. S. Kim, Stefan A. Maier
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures, published in Nano Letters, publication date (web): March 27 (2012)
journal: Nano Lett. 12, 2504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1487
abstract: Single surface plasmon polaritons are excited using photons generated via spontaneous parametric down-conversion. The mean excitation rates, intensity correlations and Fock state populations are studied. The observed dependence of the second order coherence in our experiment is consistent with a linear uncorrelated Markovian environment in the quantum regime. Our results provide important information about the effect of loss for assessing the potential of plasmonic waveguides for future nanophotonic circuitry in the quantum regime.

id: 1204.1492
title: Efficient $N$-particle $W$ state concentration with different parity check gates
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Lan Zhou, Yu-Wei Sheng, Sheng-Mei Zhao
comments: 11pages,8figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1492
abstract: We present an universal way to concentrate an arbitrary $N$-particle less-entangled $W$ state into a maximally entangled $W$ state with different parity check gates. It comprises two protocols. The first protocol is based on the linear optical elements say the partial parity check gate and the second one uses the quantum nondemolition (QND) to construct the complete parity check gate. Both of which can achieve the concentration task. These protocols have several advantages. First, it can obtain a maximally entangled W state only with the help of some single photons, which greatly reduces the number of entanglement resources. Second, in the first protocol, only linear optical elements are required which is feasible with current techniques. Third, in the second protocol, it can be repeated to perform the concentration step and get a higher success probability. All these advantages make it be useful in current quantum communication and computation applications.

id: 1204.1527
title: A quantum query algorithm for the graph collision problem
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky, Tsuyoshi Ito
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1527
abstract: We construct a new quantum algorithm for the graph collision problem; that is, the problem of deciding whether the set of marked vertices contains a pair of adjacent vertices in a known graph G. The query complexity of our algorithm is O(sqrt(n)+sqrt(alpha*(G))), where n is the number of vertices and alpha*(G) is the maximum total degree of the vertices in an independent set of G. Notably, if G is a random graph where every edge is present with a fixed probability independently of other edges, then our algorithm requires O(sqrt(n log n)) queries on most graphs, which is optimal up to the sqrt(log n) factor on most graphs.

id: 1204.1532
title: Holographic Storage of Biphoton Entanglement
authors: Han-Ning Dai, Han Zhang, Sheng-Jun Yang, Tian-Ming Zhao, Jun Rui, You-Jin Deng, Li Li, Nai-Le Liu, Shuai Chen, Xiao-Hui Bao, Xian-Min Jin, Bo Zhao, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1532
abstract: Coherent and reversible storage of multi-photon entanglement with a multimode quantum memory is essential for scalable all-optical quantum information processing. Although single photon has been successfully stored in different quantum systems, storage of multi-photon entanglement remains challenging because of the critical requirement for coherent control of photonic entanglement source, multimode quantum memory, and quantum interface between them. Here we demonstrate a coherent and reversible storage of biphoton Bell-type entanglement with a holographic multimode atomic-ensemble-based quantum memory. The retrieved biphoton entanglement violates Bell's inequality for 1 microsecond storage time and a memory-process fidelity of 98% is demonstrated by quantum state tomography.

id: 1204.1540
title: Analytical Quantum Dynamics in Infinite Phase Space
authors: Maxim Raykin
comments: 64 pages, LaTeX; v2: minor stylistic corrections; v3: modified conclusion section, several minor changes in other sections; v4: introduction, conclusion, and part of section 3 rewritten, two figures added, several other minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1540
abstract: We develop a dynamical theory, based on a system of ordinary differential equations describing the motion of particles which reproduces the results of quantum mechanics. The system generalizes the Hamilton equations of classical mechanics to the quantum domain, and turns into them in the classical limit $\hbar\rightarrow 0$. The particles' motions are completely determined by the initial conditions. In this theory, the wave function $\psi$ of quantum mechanics is equal to the exponent of an action function, obtained by integrating some Lagrangian function along particle trajectories, described by equations of motion. Consequently, the equation for the logarithm of a wave function is related to the equations of motion in the same way as the Hamilton-Jacobi equation is related to the Hamilton equations in classical mechanics. We demonstrate that the probability density of particles, moving according to these equations, should be given by a standard quantum-mechanical relation, $\rho=|\psi|^2$. The theory of quantum measurements is presented, and the mechanism of nonlocal correlations between results of distant measurements with entangled particles is revealed. In the last section, we extend the theory to particles with nonzero spin.

id: 1204.1550
title: An Introduction to Quantum Bayesian Networks for Mixed States
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 20 pages (3 files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1550
abstract: This paper is intended to be a pedagogical introduction to quantum Bayesian networks (QB nets), as I personally use them to represent mixed states (i.e., density matrices, and open quantum systems). A special effort is made to make contact with notions used in textbooks on quantum Shannon Information Theory (quantum SIT), such as the one by Mark Wilde (arXiv:1106.1445)

id: 1204.1612
title: Entanglement detection beyond the CCNR criterion for infinite-dimensions
authors: Yu Guo, Jinchuan Hou
comments: 11 pages
journal: Chin Sci Bull, 2013, 58: 1250-1255
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1612
abstract: In this paper, in terms of the relation between the state and the reduced states of it, we obtain two inequalities which are valid for all separable states in infinite-dimensional bipartite quantum systems. One of them provides an entanglement criterion which is strictly stronger than the computable cross-norm or realignment (CCNR) criterion.

id: 1204.1680
title: Probing multipartite entanglement in a coupled Jaynes-Cummings system
authors: Peng Xue, Zbigniew Ficek, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 86, 043826 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1680
abstract: We show how to probe multipartite entanglement in $N$ coupled Jaynes-Cummings cells where the degrees of freedom are the electronic energies of each of the $N$ atoms in separate single-mode cavities plus the $N$ single-mode fields themselves. Specifically we propose probing the combined system as though it is a dielectric medium. The spectral properties and transition rates directly reveal multipartite entanglement signatures. It is found that the Hilbert space of the $N$ cell system can be confined to the totally symmetric subspace of two states only that are maximally-entangled W states with 2N degrees of freedom.

id: 1204.1708
title: Dynamics of coupled cavity arrays embedded in a non-Markovian bath
authors: Xinyu Zhao, Jun Jing, J. Q. You, Ting Yu
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 14, No. 9&10 (2014) 0741
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1708
abstract: In this paper, the non-Markovian quantum dynamics of a coupled $N$-cavity model is studied based on the quantum state diffusion (QSD) approach. The time-local Di\'{o}si-Gisin-Strunz equation and the corresponding exact master equation are derived for the model consisting of a coupled cavity array. The resulting QSD equation serves as a stochastic solution to a genuine $N$-partite continuous-variable (CV) system. Several non-Markovian effects are studied in two interesting examples -- two-cavity and three-cavity, under different boundary conditions. We have shown that the environment-memory can facilitate the cat-like state transfer from one cavity to another in the case of a strongly non-Markovian environment.

id: 1204.1712
title: Single-photon space-like antibunching
authors: Thiago Guerreiro, Bruno Sanguinetti, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin, Antoine Suarez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1712
abstract: We use heralded single photons to perform an antibunching experiment in which the clicks at the detectors are spacelike separated events. The idea of such experiment dates back to the 5th Solvay conference, when it was proposed by Einstein as an expression of his concerns about quantum theory.

id: 1204.1732
title: Empty waves, many worlds, parallel lives, and nonlocal decision at detection
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 5 pages, 2 Figures. To appear in: A. Suarez and P. Adams (Eds.) Is science compatible with free will? Exploring free will and consciousness in light of quantum physics and neuroscience, New York: Springer, 2012, Chapter 5, Section 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1732
abstract: I discuss an experiment demonstrating nonlocality and conservation of energy under the assumption that the decision of the outcome happens at detection. The experiment does not require Bell's inequalities and is loophole-free. I further argue that the local hidden variables assumed in Bell's theorem involve de Broglie's "empty waves", and therefore "many worlds" achieves to reconcile locality with the violation of Bell's inequalities. Accordingly, the discussed experiment may be the first loophole-free demonstration of nonlocality.

id: 1204.1742
title: Quantum internet using code division multiple access
authors: Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Re-Bing Wu, Feifei Gao, Xiang-Bin Wang, Lan Yang, Franco Nori
comments: 29 pages, 6 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 2211 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1742
abstract: A crucial open problem in large-scale quantum networks is how to efficiently transmit quantum data among many pairs of users via a common data-transmission medium. We propose a solution by developing a quantum code division multiple access (q-CDMA) approach in which quantum information is chaotically encoded to spread its spectral content, and then decoded via chaos synchronization to separate different sender-receiver pairs. In comparison to other existing approaches, such as frequency division multiple access (FDMA), the proposed q-CDMA can greatly increase the information rates per channel used, especially for very noisy quantum channels.

id: 1204.1747
title: Fidelity and level correlations in the transition from regularity to chaos
authors: Heiner Kohler, Christian Recher
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: EPL, 98 (2012) 10005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1747
abstract: Mean fidelity amplitude and parametric energy--energy correlations are calculated exactly for a regular system, which is subject to a chaotic random perturbation. It turns out that in this particular case under the average both quantities are identical. The result is compared with the susceptibility of chaotic systems against random perturbations. Regular systems are more susceptible against random perturbations than chaotic ones.

id: 1204.1778
title: Quantum simulation of artificial Abelian gauge field using nitrogen-vacancy center ensembles coupled to superconducting resonators
authors: W. L. Yang, Zhang-qi Yin, Z. X. Chen, Su-Peng Kou, M. Feng, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 papes+supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012307 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1778
abstract: We propose a potentially practical scheme to simulate artificial Abelian gauge field for polaritons using a hybrid quantum system consisting of nitrogen-vacancy center ensembles (NVEs) and superconducting transmission line resonators (TLR). In our case, the collective excitations of NVEs play the role of bosonic particles, and our multiport device tends to circulate polaritons in a behavior like a charged particle in an external magnetic field. We discuss the possibility of identifying signatures of the Hofstadter "butterfly" in the optical spectra of the resonators, and analyze the ground state crossover for different gauge fields. Our work opens new perspectives in quantum simulation of condensed matter and many-body physics using hybrid spin-ensemble circuit quantum electrodynamics system. The experimental feasibility and challenge are justified using currently available technology.

id: 1204.1794
title: Nonclassicality witnesses and entanglement creation
authors: F. E. S. Steinhoff
comments: 18 pages, no figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1794
abstract: Several definitions of classicality are considered, such as P-representability, generalized coherent states and separable states. These notions are treated under a simple and general definition based on convex sets, which enables the use of the Hahn-Banach theorem to separate classical states from nonclassical ones. Nonclassicality linear witnesses are constructed, based on the observables available in a given physical situation. Some examples of nonclassical states are considered, with detection schemes available nowadays. Reviewing the concept of entanglement potential from a different perspective, it is shown that in some contexts an arbitrary single-system nonclassical state can be converted into a bipartite entangled state, provided a generalized controlled-displacement (e.g., beam-splitter, CNOT gate) is available. Also, this entanglement can be detected in a simple way using the nonclassicality witness of the original single-system state. Finally, we extend the discussion to multipartite states, proposing alternative ways to generate and classify multipartite entanglement.

id: 1204.1798
title: Quantumness of Product States
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Hong-Yi Su, Chunfeng Wu, C. H. Oh
comments: 2 pages. A draft. A reference is corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1798
abstract: Product states do not violate Bell inequalities. In this work, we investigate the quantumness of product states by violating a certain classical algebraic models. Thus even for product states, statistical predictions of quantum mechanics and classical theories do not agree. An experiment protocol is proposed to reveal the quantumness.

id: 1204.1813
title: Randomizing quantum states in Shatten $p$-norms
authors: Kabgyun Jeong
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a trivial result and crucial error in the definition 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1813
abstract: In this paper, we formularize a method for randomizing quantum states with respect to the Schatten $p$-norm ($p\ge1$). Our theorem includes the Lemma 2.2 of Hayden and Winter [Commun. Math. Phys. {\bf 284}, 263--280 (2008)] for the norm case of $p>1$. We exploit the methods of a net construction on the unit sphere and McDiard's inequality in probability theory, and then we prove certain general cases (all $p$) of randomization tool for quantum states, which includes the operator norm and trace norm simultaneously in a single statement.

id: 1204.1836
title: Master equation for cascade quantum channels: a collisional approach
authors: V. Giovannetti, G. M. Palma
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures. This paper contains an extended version of the supplementary material of Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 040401 (2012) -- see arXiv:1105.4506
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 154003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1836
abstract: It has been recently shown that collisional models can be used to derive a general form for the master equations which describe the reduced time evolution of a composite multipartite quantum system, whose components "propagate" in an environmental medium which induces correlations among them via a cascade mechanism. Here we analyze the fundamental assumptions of this approach showing how some of them can be lifted when passing into a proper interaction picture representation.

id: 1204.1838
title: Optimal error correction in topological subsystem codes
authors: Ruben S. Andrist, H. Bombin, Helmut G. Katzgraber, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, 4 authors
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 050302(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1838
abstract: A promising approach to overcome decoherence in quantum computing schemes is to perform active quantum error correction using topology. Topological subsystem codes incorporate both the benefits of topological and subsystem codes, allowing for error syndrome recovery with only 2-local measurements in a two-dimensional array of qubits. We study the error threshold for topological subsystem color codes under very general external noise conditions. By transforming the problem into a classical disordered spin model, we estimate using Monte Carlo simulations that topological subsystem codes have an optimal error tolerance of 5.5(2)%. This means there is ample space for improvement in existing error-correcting algorithms that typically find a threshold of approximately 2%.

id: 1204.1858
title: Classical/Quantum=Commutative/Noncommutative?
authors: Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: 8 pages, AMS-LaTeX, no figures. v2: small improvements and additional references; v3: small improvements, additional references, Russian translation is added
journal: Izvestiya Komi nauchnogo centra UrO RAN, v. 3(11), p. 4-9, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Overview (math.HO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1858
abstract: In 1926, Dirac stated that quantum mechanics can be obtained from classical theory through a change in the only rule. In his view, classical mechanics is formulated through commutative quantities (c-numbers) while quantum mechanics requires noncommutative one (q-numbers). The rest of theory can be unchanged. In this paper we critically review Dirac's proposition. We provide a natural formulation of classical mechanics through noncommutative quantities with a non-zero Planck constant. This is done with the help of the nilpotent unit, which squares to zero. Thus, the crucial r\^ole in quantum theory shall be attributed to the usage of complex numbers. The paper provides English and Russian versions.

id: 1204.1863
title: Bound entangled ststes of four qubits in tomographic probability representation
authors: Igor Traskunov, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1863
abstract: The entanglement phenomenon on example of Smolin state of four qubits is discussed. This state is known as bound entangled state and the spin tomogram of the state is found in explicit form. The qubit portrait method is used the Bell inequality violation which provides another tool to prove the property of entanglement of the four-qubit state under consideration.

id: 1204.1870
title: All-Versus-Nothing Proof of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Steering
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Xiang-Jun Ye, Chunfeng Wu, Hong-Yi Su, Adan Cabello, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Oh
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. Accepted in Sci. Rep
journal: Sci. Rep. 3 (2013) 2143
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1870
abstract: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering is a form of quantum nonlocality intermediate between entanglement and Bell nonlocality. Although Schr\"odinger already mooted the idea in 1935, steering still defies a complete understanding. In analogy to "all-versus-nothing" proofs of Bell nonlocality, here we present a proof of steering without inequalities rendering the detection of correlations leading to a violation of steering inequalities unnecessary. We show that, given any two-qubit entangled state, the existence of certain projective measurement by Alice so that Bob's normalized conditional states can be regarded as two different pure states provides a criterion for Alice-to-Bob steerability. A steering inequality equivalent to the all-versus-nothing proof is also obtained. Our result clearly demonstrates that there exist many quantum states which do not violate any previously known steering inequality but are indeed steerable. Our method offers advantages over the existing methods for experimentally testing steerability, and sheds new light on the asymmetric steering problem.

id: 1204.1876
title: Zero-point energies, the uncertainty principle and positivity of the quantum Brownian density operator
authors: Allan Tameshtit
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 042103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1876
abstract: High temperature and white noise approximations are frequently invoked when deriving the quantum Brownian equation for an oscillator. Even if this white noise approximation is avoided, it is shown that if the zero point energies of the environment are neglected, as they often are, the resultant equation will violate not only the basic tenet of quantum mechanics that requires the density operator to be positive, but also the uncertainty principle. When the zero-point energies are included, asymptotic results describing the evolution of the oscillator are obtained that preserve positivity and, therefore, the uncertainty principle.

id: 1204.1893
title: Mapping coherence in measurement via full quantum tomography of a hybrid optical detector
authors: Lijian Zhang, Hendrik Coldenstrodt-Ronge, Animesh Datta, Graciana Puentes, Jeff S. Lundeen, Xian-Min Jin, Brian J. Smith, Martin B. Plenio, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 6, 364-368 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1893
abstract: Quantum states and measurements exhibit wave-like --- continuous, or particle-like --- discrete, character. Hybrid discrete-continuous photonic systems are key to investigating fundamental quantum phenomena, generating superpositions of macroscopic states, and form essential resources for quantum-enhanced applications, e.g. entanglement distillation and quantum computation, as well as highly efficient optical telecommunications. Realizing the full potential of these hybrid systems requires quantum-optical measurements sensitive to complementary observables such as field quadrature amplitude and photon number. However, a thorough understanding of the practical performance of an optical detector interpolating between these two regions is absent. Here, we report the implementation of full quantum detector tomography, enabling the characterization of the simultaneous wave and photon-number sensitivities of quantum-optical detectors. This yields the largest parametrization to-date in quantum tomography experiments, requiring the development of novel theoretical tools. Our results reveal the role of coherence in quantum measurements and demonstrate the tunability of hybrid quantum-optical detectors.

id: 1204.1900
title: Decoherence dynamics of geometric measure of quantum discord and measurement-induced nonlocality for noninertial observers at finite temperature
authors: M. Ramzan
comments: 22 pages, 6 .eps figures, 1 table, Accepted for Publication in Journal of Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing 12, 2721 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1900
abstract: Quantum discord quantifies the total non-classical correlations in mixed states. It is the difference between total correlation, measured by quantum mutual information, and the classical correlation. Another step forward towards the quantification of quantum discord was by Dakic, Vedral, and Brukner [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105,190502 (2010)] who introduced the geometric measure of quantum discord (GMQD) and derived an explicit formula for a two-qubit state. Recently, Luo and Fu [Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 120401 (2011)] introduced measurement-induced nonlocality (MIN) as a measure of nonlocality for a bipartite quantum system. The dynamics of GMQD is recently considered by Song et al. [arXiv: quant/ph.1203.3356] and Zhang et al. [Eur. Phys. J. D 66, 34 (2012)] for inertial observers. However, the topic requires due attention in noninertial frames, particularly, from the perspective of MIN. Here I consider X-structured bipartite quantum system in noninertial frames and analyze the decoherence dynamics of GMQD and MIN at finite temperature. The dynamics under the influence of amplitude damping, depolarizing and phase flip channels is discussed. It is worth-noting that initial state entanglement plays an important role in bipartite states. It is possible to distinguish the Bell, Werner and general type initial quantum states using GMQD. Sudden transition in the behaviour of GMQD and MIN occurs depending upon the mean photon number of the local environment. The transition behaviour disappears for larger values of n, i.e. n>0.3. It becomes more prominent, when environmental noise is introduced in the system. ......

id: 1204.1997
title: A Resource Efficient Source of Multi-photon Polarization Entanglement
authors: E. Megidish, T. Shacham, A. Halevy, L. Dovrat, H. S. Eisenberg
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 080504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1997
abstract: Current photon entangling schemes require resources that grow with the photon number. We present a new approach that generates quantum entanglement between many photons, using only a single source of entangled photon pairs. The different spatial modes, one for each photon as required by other schemes, are replaced by different time slots of only two spatial modes. States of any number of photons are generated with the same setup, solving the scalability problem caused by the previous need for extra resources. Consequently, entangled photon states of larger numbers than before are practically realizable.

id: 1204.2036
title: Entanglement of the Two Movable Mirrors in a Single Mode Cavity Field
authors: Yong-Yi Huang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2036
abstract: The entanglement of the two movable mirrors in a single mode cavity field is studied in an ideal situation without thermal noise. When gn/w <<1 where g is the coupling coefficient between the mirror and the field, w is the mirror' vibration frequency and n is photon number of the cavity field, we work out Wootters concurrence of the system initially with the field in Fock number state and the two mirrors in vacuum states, and find that the states of the mirrors are entangled into space spanned by |0>,|1> via radiation pressure, though the concurrence is very small.

id: 1204.2064
title: Fisher information manifestation of dynamical stability and transition to self-trapping for Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Yixiao Huang, Wei Zhong, Zhe Sun, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2064
abstract: We investigate dynamical stability and self-trapping for Bose-Einstein condensates in a symmetric double well. The relation between the quantum Fisher information and the stability of the fixed point is studied. We find that the quantum Fisher information displays a sharp transition as the fixed point evolving from stable to unstable regime. Moreover, the transition from Josephson oscillation to self-trapping is accompanied by an abrupt change of the quantum Fisher information.

id: 1204.2077
title: Production of entanglement with highly-mixed states
authors: Minsu Kang, M. S. Kim, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 044301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2077
abstract: We study production of entanglement with highly-mixed states. We find that entanglement between highly mixed states can be generated via a direct unitary interaction even when both states have purities arbitrarily close to zero. This indicates that purity of a subsystem is not required for entanglement generation. Our result is in contrast to previous studies where the importance of the subsystem purity was emphasized.

id: 1204.2107
title: Polarization entanglement generation at 1.5 um based on walk-off effect due to fiber birefringence
authors: Qiang Zhou, Wei Zhang, Pengxiang Wang, Yidong Huang, Jiangde Peng
comments: Will be published in Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2107
abstract: In this Letter, a linear scheme to generate polarization entanglement at 1.5 um based on commercial polarization maintained dispersion shifted fiber (PM-DSF) is proposed. The birefringent walk-off effect of the pulsed pump light in the PM-DSF provides an effective way to suppress the vector scattering processes of spontaneous four wave mixing. A 90 degree offset of fiber polarization axes is introduced at the midpoint of the fiber to realize the quantum superposition of the two correlated photon states generated by the two scalar processes on different fiber polarization axes, leading to polarization entanglement generation. Experiments of the indistinguishable property on single side and two-photon interference in two non-orthogonal polarization bases are demonstrated. A two photon interference fringe visibility of 89\pm3% is achieved without subtracting the background counts, demonstrating its great potential in developing highly efficient and stable fiber based polarization-entangled quantum light source at optical communication band.

id: 1204.2128
title: Can free will emerge from determinism in quantum theory?
authors: Gilles Brassard, Paul Raymond-Robichaud
comments: 22 pages. This paper will appear in "Is science compatible with free will? Exploring free will and consciousness in light of quantum physics and neuroscience", A. Suarez and P. Adams (Eds.), Springer, New York, 2012, Chapter 4. Most of the paper explains well-known ideas to a general public. We encourage the expert to skip directly to Section 7, in which we present our theory of "Parallel Lives"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2128
abstract: Quantum Mechanics is generally considered to be the ultimate theory capable of explaining the emergence of randomness by virtue of the quantum measurement process. Therefore, Quantum Mechanics can be thought of as God's wonderfully imaginative solution to the problem of providing His creatures with Free Will in an otherwise well-ordered Universe. Indeed, how could we dream of free will in the purely deterministic Universe envisioned by Laplace if everything ever to happen is predetermined by (and in principle calculable from) the actual conditions or even those existing at the time of the Big Bang? In this essay, we share our view that Quantum Mechanics is in fact deterministic, local and realistic, in complete contradiction with most people's perception of Bell's theorem, thanks to our new theory of parallel lives. Accordingly, what we perceive as the so-called "collapse of the wavefunction" is but an illusion. Then we ask the fundamental question: Can a purely deterministic Quantum Theory give rise to the illusion of nondeterminism, randomness, probabilities, and ultimately can free will emerge from such a theory?

id: 1204.2137
title: Hybrid quantum circuits: Superconducting circuits interacting with other quantum systems
authors: Ze-Liang Xiang, Sahel Ashhab, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 35 pages, 17 figures, 3 tables
journal: Reviews of Modern Physics 85, 623-653 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2137
abstract: Hybrid quantum circuits combine two or more physical systems, with the goal of harnessing the advantages and strengths of the different systems in order to better explore new phenomena and potentially bring about novel quantum technologies. This article presents a brief overview of the progress achieved so far in the field of hybrid circuits involving atoms, spins and solid-state devices (including superconducting and nanomechanical systems). How these circuits combine elements from atomic physics, quantum optics, condensed matter physics, and nanoscience is discussed, and different possible approaches for integrating various systems into a single circuit are presented. In particular, hybrid quantum circuits can be fabricated on a chip, facilitating their future scalability, which is crucial for building future quantum technologies, including quantum detectors, simulators, and computers.

id: 1204.2157
title: Decoherence Dynamics of Measurement-Induced Nonlocality and comparison with Geometric Discord for two qubit systems
authors: Ajoy Sen, Debasis Sarkar, Amit Bhar
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures, Revtex
journal: Quant. Inf. Processing, Vol. 12, Issue 9 (2013), 3007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2157
abstract: We check the decoherence dynamics of Measurement-induced Nonlocality(in short, MIN) and compare it with geometric discord for two qubit systems. There are quantum states, on which the action of dephasing channel cannot destroy MIN in finite or infinite time. We check the additive dynamics of MIN on a qubit state under two independent noise. Geometric discord also follows such additive dynamics like quantum discord. We have further compared non-Markovian evolution of MIN and geometric discord under dephasing and amplitude damping noise for pure state and it shows distinct differences between their dynamics.

id: 1204.2178
title: Measurement-based quantum repeaters
authors: M. Zwerger, W. D¨¹r, H. J. Briegel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062326 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2178
abstract: We introduce measurement-based quantum repeaters, where small-scale measurement-based quantum processors are used to perform entanglement purification and entanglement swapping in a long-range quantum communication protocol. In the scheme, pre-prepared entangled states stored at intermediate repeater stations are coupled with incoming photons by simple Bell-measurements, without the need of performing additional quantum gates or measurements. We show how to construct the required resource states, and how to minimize their size. We analyze the performance of the scheme under noise and imperfections, with focus on small-scale implementations involving entangled states of few qubits. We find measurement-based purification protocols with significantly improved noise thresholds. Furthermore we show that already resource states of small size suffice to significantly increase the maximal communication distance. We also discuss possible advantages of our scheme for different set-ups.

id: 1204.2197
title: Unification of witnessing initial system-environment correlations and witnessing non-Markovianity
authors: C¨¦sar A. Rodr¨ªguez-Rosario, Kavan Modi, Laura Mazzola, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 5 pages
journal: EPL 99 (2012) 20010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2197
abstract: We show the connection between a witness that detects dynamical maps with initial system-environment correlations and a witness that detects non-Markovian open quantum systems. Our analysis is based on studying the role that state preparation plays in witnessing violations of contractivity of open quantum system dynamics. Contractivity is a property of some quantum processes where the trace distance of density matrices decrease with time. From this, we show how a witness of initial-correlations is an upper bound to a witness of non-Markovianity. We discuss how this relationship shows further connections between initial system-environment correlations and non-Markovianity at an instance of time in open quantum systems.

id: 1204.2227
title: An algebraic approach to the study of multipartite entanglement
authors: S. Di Martino, B. Militello, A. Messina
comments: 
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research 34, 1, pp. 22-32 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2227
abstract: A simple algebraic approach to the study of multipartite entanglement for pure states is introduced together with a class of suitable functionals able to detect entanglement. On this basis, some known results are reproduced. Indeed, by investigating the properties of the introduced functionals, it is shown that a subset of such class is strictly connected to the purity. Moreover, a direct and basic solution to the problem of the simultaneous maximization of three appropriate functionals for three-qubit states is provided, confirming that the simultaneous maximization of the entanglement for all possible bipartitions is compatible only with the structure of GHZ-states.

id: 1204.2237
title: Josephson junction-embedded transmission-line resonators: from Kerr medium to in-line transmon
authors: J. Bourassa, F. Beaudoin, Jay M. Gambetta, A. Blais
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures; Published version with minor changes and corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013814 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2237
abstract: We provide a general method to find the Hamiltonian of a linear circuit in the presence of a nonlinearity. Focussing on the case of a Josephson junction embedded in a transmission-line resonator, we solve for the normal modes of the system by taking into account exactly the effect of the quadratic (i.e. inductive) part of the Josephson potential. The nonlinearity is then found to lead to self and cross-Kerr effect, as well as beam-splitter type interactions between modes. By adjusting the parameters of the circuit, the Kerr coefficient K can be made to reach values that are weak (K < \kappa), strong (K > \kappa) or even very strong (K >> \kappa) with respect to the photon-loss rate \kappa. In the latter case, the resonator+junction circuit corresponds to an in-line version of the transmon. By replacing the single junction by a SQUID, the Kerr coefficient can be tuned in-situ, allowing for example the fast generation of Schr\"odinger cat states of microwave light. Finally, we explore the maximal strength of qubit-resonator coupling that can be reached in this setting.

id: 1204.2284
title: Finite temperature quantum simulation of stabilizer Hamiltonians
authors: Kevin C. Young, Mohan Sarovar, Jon Aytac, C. M. Herdman, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2284
abstract: We present a scheme for robust finite temperature quantum simulation of stabilizer Hamiltonians. The scheme is designed for realization in a physical system consisting of a finite set of neutral atoms trapped in an addressable optical lattice that are controllable via 1- and 2-body operations together with dissipative 1-body operations such as optical pumping. We show that these minimal physical constraints suffice for design of a quantum simulation scheme for any stabilizer Hamiltonian at either finite or zero temperature. We demonstrate the approach with application to the abelian and non-abelian toric codes.

id: 1204.2289
title: Absolute Maximal Entanglement and Quantum Secret Sharing
authors: Wolfram Helwig, Wei Cui, Arnau Riera, Jos¨¦ I. Latorre, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2289
abstract: We study the existence of absolutely maximally entangled (AME) states in quantum mechanics and its applications to quantum information. AME states are characterized by being maximally entangled for all bipartitions of the system and exhibit genuine multipartite entanglement. With such states, we present a novel parallel teleportation protocol which teleports multiple quantum states between groups of senders and receivers. The notable features of this protocol are that (i) the partition into senders and receivers can be chosen after the state has been distributed, and (ii) one group has to perform joint quantum operations while the parties of the other group only have to act locally on their system. We also prove the equivalence between pure state quantum secret sharing schemes and AME states with an even number of parties. This equivalence implies the existence of AME states for an arbitrary number of parties based on known results about the existence of quantum secret sharing schemes.

id: 1204.2313
title: Optimal Discrimination of Qubit States - Methods, Solutions, and Properties
authors: Joonwoo Bae, Won-Young Hwang
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012334 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2313
abstract: We show a geometric formulation for minimum-error discrimination of qubit states, that can be applied to arbitrary sets of qubit states given with arbitrary a priori probabilities. In particular, when qubit states are given with equal \emph{a priori} probabilities, we provide a systematic way of finding optimal discrimination and the complete solution in a closed form. This generally gives a bound to cases when prior probabilities are unequal. Then, it is shown that the guessing probability does not depend on detailed relations among given states, such as angles between them, but on a property that can be assigned by the set of given states itself. This also shows how a set of quantum states can be modified such that the guessing probability remains the same. Optimal measurements are also characterized accordingly, and a general method of finding them is provided.

id: 1204.2326
title: Effects of prepared states and Unruh temperature on Measurement-Induced-Nonlocality
authors: Zehua Tian, Jiliang Jing
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2326
abstract: How the prepared states and Unruh effect affect Measurement-Induced-Nonlocality (MIN) is studied. We show that, as the Unruh temperature increases, the MIN between modes $\mathrm{A}$ and $\mathrm{I}$ decreases but the MIN between modes $\mathrm{A}$ and $\mathrm{II}$ increases. We prove that the parameters $c_i$ which decide initial prepared states affect not only the values of the MIN, but also the dynamical behavior of it. By comparing the MIN with the maximal expectation values of CHSH inequality and geometric discord between modes $\mathrm{A}$ and $\mathrm{I}$, we also find that the MIN is more general than the quantum nonlocality related to violation of Bell's inequalities, and its values is always equal or bigger than that of the geometric discord.

id: 1204.2337
title: Role of external fields in enhancing long-distance entanglement at finite temperatures
authors: Tomotaka Kuwahara
comments: 20pages, 3figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 155302 (18 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2337
abstract: We investigate the end-to-end entanglement of a general XYZ-spin chain at the non-zero temperatures. The entanglement usually vanishes at a certain critical temperature $T_c$, but external fields can make $T_c$ higher. We obtain a general statement on the increase of the critical temperature $T_c$ by the external fields. We prove that if the two end spins are separated by two spins or more, the critical temperature cannot be higher than a certain finite temperature $bar{T}_c$ ($T_c le bar{T}_c$), that is, the entanglement must vanish above the temperature $bar{T}_c$ for any values of the external fields. On the other hand, if the two end spins are separated by one spin, the entanglement maximized by the external fields exhibits a power law decay of the temperature, being finite at any temperatures. In order to demonstrate the former case, we numerically calculate the temperature $bar{T}_c$ in $XX$ and XY four-spin chains. We find that the temperature $bar{T}_c$ shows qualitatively different behavior, depending on the conservation of the angular momentum in the $z$ direction.

id: 1204.2354
title: A time/frequency quantum analysis of the light generated by synchronously pumped optical parametric oscillators
authors: Shifeng Jiang, Nicolas Treps, Claude Fabre
comments: This is an author-created, un-copyedited version of an article accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics. IOP Publishing Ltd is not responsible for any errors or omissions in this version of the manuscript or any version derived from it. The definitive publisher-authenticated version is available online at this http URL
journal: New Journal of Physics 14 (2012) 043006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2354
abstract: We present in this paper a general model for determining the quantum properties of the light generated by a synchronously pumped optical parametric oscillator (SPOPO) operating below threshold. This model considers time and frequency on an equal footing, which allows us to find new quantum properties, related for example to the carrier envelope offset (CEO) phase, and to consider situations that are close to real experiments. We show that, in addition to multimode squeezing in the so-called 'supermodes', the system exhibits quadrature entanglement between frequency combs of opposite CEO phases. We have also determined the quantum properties of the individual pulses and their quantum correlations with the neighboring pulses. Finally, we determine the quantum Cramer-Rao limit for an ultra-short time delay measurement using a given number of pulses generated by the SPOPO.

id: 1204.2372
title: Quantum geometric phase in Majorana's stellar representation: Mapping onto a many-body Aharonov-Bohm phase
authors: Patrick Bruno
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; v2: small modifications in response to a Referee's recommendations + corrections of typos in some equations; v3: final version (with minor corrections), as published. See also the accompanying Viewpoint in Physics [this http URL]
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 240402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2372
abstract: The (Berry-Aharonov-Anandan) geometric phase acquired during a cyclic quantum evolution of finite-dimensional quantum systems is studied. It is shown that a pure quantum state in a (2J+1)-dimensional Hilbert space (or, equivalently, of a spin-J system) can be mapped onto the partition function of a gas of independent Dirac strings moving on a sphere and subject to the Coulomb repulsion of 2J fixed test charges (the Majorana stars) characterizing the quantum state. The geometric phase may be viewed as the Aharonov-Bohm phase acquired by the Majorana stars as they move through the gas of Dirac strings. Expressions for the geometric connection and curvature, for the metric tensor, as well as for the multipole moments (dipole, quadrupole, etc.), are given in terms of the Majorana stars. Finally, the geometric formulation of the quantum dynamics is presented and its application to systems with exotic ordering such as spin nematics is outlined.

id: 1204.2416
title: Scattering states of a particle, with position-dependent mass, in a ${\cal{PT}}$ symmetric heterojunction
authors: Anjana Sinha
comments: 12 pages, including 6 figures; Journal of Physics A : Math. Theor. (2012)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 185305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2416
abstract: The study of a particle with position-dependent effective mass (pdem), within a double heterojunction is extended into the complex domain --- when the region within the heterojunctions is described by a non Hermitian ${\cal{PT}}$ symmetric potential. After obtaining the exact analytical solutions, the reflection and transmission coefficients are calculated, and plotted as a function of the energy. It is observed that at least two of the characteristic features of non Hermitian ${\cal{PT}}$ symmetric systems --- viz., left / right asymmetry and anomalous behaviour at spectral singularity, are preserved even in the presence of pdem. The possibility of charge conservation is also discussed.

id: 1204.2437
title: Geometric Aspects of Composite Pulses
authors: Tsubasa Ichikawa, Masamitsu Bando, Yasushi Kondo, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures. Accepted for publication in Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 370 (2012) 4671
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2437
abstract: Unitary operations acting on a quantum system must be robust against systematic errors in control parameters for reliable quantum computing. Composite pulse technique in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) realises such a robust operation by employing a sequence of possibly poor quality pulses. In this article, we demonstrate that two kinds of composite pulses, one compensates for a pulse length error in a one-qubit system and the other compensates for a J-coupling error in a twoqubit system, have vanishing dynamical phase and thereby can be seen as geometric quantum gates, which implement unitary gates by the holonomy associated with dynamics of cyclic vectors defined in the text.

id: 1204.2439
title: Degenerate Viterbi decoding
authors: Emilie Pelchat, David Poulin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2439
abstract: We present a decoding algorithm for quantum convolutional codes that finds the class of degenerate errors with the largest probability conditioned on a given error syndrome. The algorithm runs in time linear with the number of qubits. Previous decoding algorithms for quantum convolutional codes optimized the probability over individual errors instead of classes of degenerate errors. Using Monte Carlo simulations, we show that this modification to the decoding algorithm results in a significantly lower block error rate.

id: 1204.2473
title: A limit formula for the quantum fidelity
authors: Gaetana Spedalieri, Christian Weedbrook, Stefano Pirandola
comments: Error corrected in the proof of Theorem 1. Results remain valid
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 025304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2473
abstract: Quantum fidelity is a central tool in quantum information, quantifying how much two quantum states are similar. Here we propose a limit formula for the quantum fidelity between a mixed state and a pure state. As an example of an application, we apply this formula to the case of multimode Gaussian states, achieving a simple expression in terms of their first and second-order statistical moments.

id: 1204.2483
title: Hypergraph Ramsey Numbers and Adiabatic Quantum Algorithm
authors: Ri Qu, Yan-ru Bao
comments: 4 pages
journal: Int. J. Quanum Inform. 10(6), 1250067 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2483
abstract: Gaitan and Clark [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 010501 (2012)] have recently presented a quantum algorithm for the computation of the Ramsey numbers R(m, n) using adiabatic quantum evolution. We consider that the two-color Ramsey numbers R(m, n; r) for r-uniform hypergraphs can be computed by using the similar ways in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 010501 (2012)]. In this comment, we show how the computation of R(m, n; r) can be mapped to a combinatorial optimization problem whose solution be found using adiabatic quantum evolution.

id: 1204.2500
title: Sequential quantum cloning under real-life conditions
authors: Hamed Saberi, Yousof Mardoukhi
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052323 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2500
abstract: We consider a sequential implementation of the optimal quantum cloning machine of Gisin and Massar and propose optimization protocols for experimental realization of such a quantum cloner subject to the real-life restrictions. We demonstrate how exploiting the matrix-product state (MPS) formalism and the ensuing variational optimization techniques reveals the intriguing algebraic structure of the Gisin-Massar output of the cloning procedure and brings about significant improvements to the optimality of the sequential cloning prescription of Delgado et al [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 150502 (2007)]. Our numerical results show that the orthodox paradigm of optimal quantum cloning can in practice be realized in a much more economical manner by utilizing a considerably lesser amount of informational and numerical resources than hitherto estimated. Instead of the previously predicted linear scaling of the required ancilla dimension D with the number of qubits n, our recipe allows a realization of such a sequential cloning setup with an experimentally manageable ancilla of dimension at most D=3 up to n=15 qubits. We also address satisfactorily the possibility of providing an optimal range of sequential ancilla-qubit interactions for optimal cloning of arbitrary states under realistic experimental circumstances when only a restricted class of such bipartite interactions can be engineered in practice.

id: 1204.2562
title: Multipartite quantum nonlocality under local decoherence
authors: Rafael Chaves, Daniel Cavalcanti, Leandro Aolita, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012108 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2562
abstract: We study the nonlocal properties of two-qubit maximally-entangled and N-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states under local decoherence. We show that the (non)resilience of entanglement under local depolarization or dephasing is not necessarily equivalent to the (non)resilience of Bell-inequality violations. Apart from entanglement and Bell-inequality violations, we consider also nonlocality as quantified by the nonlocal content of correlations, and provide several examples of anomalous behaviors, both in the bipartite and multipartite cases. In addition, we study the practical implications of these anomalies on the usefulness of noisy Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states as resources for nonlocality-based physical protocols given by communication complexity problems. There, we provide examples of quantum gains improving with the number of particles that coexist with exponentially-decaying entanglement and non-local contents.

id: 1204.2569
title: Theory of optomechanics: Oscillator-field model of moving mirrors
authors: Chad R. Galley, Ryan O. Behunin, B. L. Hu
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2569
abstract: In this paper we present a model for the kinematics and dynamics of optomechanics which describe the coupling between an optical field, here modeled by a massless scalar field, and the internal (e.g., determining its reflectivity) and mechanical (e.g., displacement) degrees of freedom of a moveable mirror. As opposed to implementing boundary conditions on the field we highlight the internal dynamics of the mirror which provides added flexibility to describe a variety of setups relevant to current experiments. The inclusion of the internal degrees of freedom in this model allows for a variety of optical activities of mirrors from those exhibiting broadband reflective properties to the cases where reflection is suppressed except for a narrow band centered around the characteristic frequency associated with the mirror's internal dynamics. After establishing the model and the reflective properties of the mirror we show how appropriate parameter choices lead to useful optomechanical models such as the well known Barton-Calogeracos model [G. Barton and A. Calogeracos, Ann. Phys. 238, 227 (1995)] and the important yet lesser explored nonlinear models (e.g., $Nx$ coupling) for small photon numbers $N$, which present models based on side-band approximations [H. Kimble et al., Phys. Rev. D 65, 022002 (2001)] cannot cope with. As a simple illustrative application we consider classical radiation pressure cooling with this model. To expound its theoretical structure and physical meanings we connect our model to field-theoretical models using auxiliary fields and the ubiquitous Brownian motion model of quantum open systems. Finally we describe the range of applications of this model, from a full quantum mechanical treatment of radiation pressure cooling, quantum entanglement between macroscopic mirrors, to the backreaction of Hawking radiation on black hole evaporation in a moving mirror analog.

id: 1204.2602
title: Superradiant quantum phase transition in a circuit QED system: a revisit from a fully microscopic point of view
authors: D. Z. Xu, Y. B. Gao, C. P. Sun
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2602
abstract: In order to examine whether or not the quantum phase transition of Dicke type exists in realistic systems, we revisit the model setup of the superconducting circuit QED from a microscopic many-body perspective based on the BCS theory with pseudo-spin presentation. By deriving the Dicke model with the correct charging terms from the minimum coupling principle, it is shown that the circuit QED system can exhibit superradiant quantum phase transition in the limit N\rightarrow\infty. The critical point could be reached at easiness by adjusting the extra parameters, the ratio of Josephson capacitance C_{J} to gate capacitance C_{g}, as well as the conventional one, the ratio of Josephson energy E_{J} to charging energy E_{C}.

id: 1204.2615
title: Symmetric coupling of four spin-1/2 systems
authors: Jun Suzuki, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 255301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2615
abstract: We address the non-binary coupling of identical angular momenta based upon the representation theory for the symmetric group. A correspondence is pointed out between the complete set of commuting operators and the reference-frame-free subsystems. We provide a detailed analysis of the coupling of three and four spin-1/2 systems and discuss a symmetric coupling of four spin-1/2 systems.

id: 1204.2627
title: Detecting multi-spin interaction of an XY spin chain by geometric phase of a coupled qubit
authors: Zhang Xiu-Xing, Zhang Ai-Ping, Li Fu-Li
comments: 15pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2627
abstract: We investigate geometric phase (GP) of a qubit symmetrically coupled to a XY spin chain with three-spin interaction in a transverse magnetic field. An analytical expression for the GP is found in the weak coupling limit. It is shown that the GP displays a sharp peak or dip around the quantum phase transition (QPT) point of the spin chain. Without the three-spin interaction, the GP has a peak or dip around the critical point $\lambda=1$. If the three-spin interaction exists, the peak or dip position is obviously shifted away from the original position. This result reveals that the GP may be taken as an observable to detect both the existence and strength of multi-spin interaction in a spin chain.

id: 1204.2631
title: Singularity of classical and quantum correlations at critical points of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model in bipartition and tripartition of spins
authors: Zhang Xiu-Xing, Li Fu-Li
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2631
abstract: We study the classical correlation (CC) and quantum discord (QD) between two spin subgroups of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick (LMG) model in both binary and trinary decompositions of spins. In the case of bipartition, we find that the classical correlations and all the quantum correlations including the QD, the entanglement of formation (EoF) and the logarithmic negativity (LN) are divergent in the same singular behavior at the critical point of the LMG model. In the case of tripartition, however, the classical correlation is still divergent but all the quantum correlation measures remain finite at the critical point. The present result shows that the classical correlation is very robust but the quantum correlation is much frangible to the environment disturbance. The present result may also lead to the conjecture that the classical correlation is responsible for the singularity behavior of physics quantities at critical points of a many-body quantum system.

id: 1204.2663
title: Engineering a C-Phase quantum gate: optical design and experimental realization
authors: Andrea Chiuri, Chiara Greganti, Paolo Mataloni
comments: accepted for publication on EPJ D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2663
abstract: A two qubit quantum gate, namely the C-Phase, has been realized by exploiting the longitudinal momentum (i.e. the optical path) degree of freedom of a single photon. The experimental setup used to engineer this quantum gate represents an advanced version of the high stability closed-loop interferometric setup adopted to generate and characterize 2-photon 4-qubit Phased Dicke states. Some experimental results, dealing with the characterization of multipartite entanglement of the Phased Dicke states are also discussed in detail.

id: 1204.2673
title: A new class of $f$-deformed charge coherent states and their nonclassical properties
authors: M Mortazavi, M K Tavassoly
comments: 22 pages, Accepted for J. Phys A: Math. Theor. Special Issue on Coherent States
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2673
abstract: Two-mode charge (pair) coherent states has been introduced previously by using $<\eta|$ representation. In the present paper we reobtain these states by a rather different method. Then, using the nonlinear coherent states approach and based on a simple manner by which the representation of two-mode charge coherent states is introduced, we generalize the bosonic creation and annihilation operators to the $f$-deformed ladder operators and construct a new class of $f$-deformed charge coherent states. Unlike the (linear) pair coherent states, our presented structure has the potentiality to generate a large class of pair coherent states with various nonclassicality signs and physical properties which are of interest. Along this purpose, we use a few well-known nonlinearity functions associated with particular quantum systems as some physical appearances of our presented formalism. After introducing the explicit form of the above correlated states in two-mode Fock-space, several nonclassicality features of the corresponding states (as well as the two-mode linear charge coherent states) are numerically investigated by calculating quadrature squeezing, Mandel parameter, second-order correlation function, second-order correlation function between the two modes and Cauchy-Schwartz inequality. Also, the oscillatory behaviour of the photon count and the quasi-probability (Husimi) function of the associated states will be discussed.

id: 1204.2675
title: Dynamics of entropy and nonclassical properties of the state of a $¦«$-type three-level atom interacting with a single-mode cavity field with intensity-dependent coupling in a Kerr medium
authors: M J Faghihi, M K Tavassoly
comments: 18 pages, 7 Figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 035502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2675
abstract: In this paper, we study the interaction between a three-level atom and a quantized single-mode field with $` `$intensity-dependent coupling$"$ in a $` `$Kerr medium$"$. The three-level atom is considered to be in a $\Lambda$-type configuration. Under particular initial conditions, which may be prepared for the atom and the field, the dynamical state vector of the entire system will be explicitly obtained, for arbitrary nonlinearity function $f(n)$ associated to any physical system. Then, after evaluating the variation of the field entropy against time, we will investigate the quantum statistics as well as some of the nonclassical properties of the introduced state. During our calculations we investigate the effects of intensity-dependent coupling, Kerr medium and detuning parameters on the depth and domain of the nonclassicality features of the atom-field state vector. Finally, we compare our obtained results with those of $V$-type three-level atoms.

id: 1204.2680
title: Representations of Coherent and Squeezed States in an Extended Two-parameters Fock Space
authors: M K Tavassoly, M H Lake
comments: 14 pages, accepted in Chinees Physics C
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2680
abstract: Recently a $f$-deformed Fock space which is spanned by $|n>_{\lambda}$ has been introduced. These bases are indeed the eigen-states of a deformed non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. In this contribution, we will use a rather new non-orthogonal basis vectors for the construction of coherent and squeezed states, which in special case lead to the earlier known states. For this purpose, we first generalize the previously introduced Fock space spanned by $|n>_{\lambda}$ bases, to a new one, spanned by an extended two-parameters bases $|n>_{\lambda_{1},\lambda_{2}}$. These bases are now the eigen-states of a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian $H_{\lambda_{1},\lambda_{2}}=a^{\dagger}_{\lambda_{1},\lambda_{2}}a+1/2$, where $a^{\dagger}_{\lambda_{1},\lambda_{2}}=a^{\dagger}+\lambda_{1}a + \lambda_{2}$ and $a$ are respectively, the deformed creation and ordinary bosonic annihilation operators. The bases $|n>_{\lambda_{1},\lambda_{2}}$ are non-orthogonal (squeezed states), but normalizable. Then, we deduce the new representations of coherent and squeezed states, in our two-parameters Fock space. Finally, we discuss the quantum statistical properties, as well as the non-classical properties of the obtained states, numerically.

id: 1204.2687
title: Second-order superposition operations via Hong-Ou-Mandel interference
authors: Su-Yong Lee, Hyunchul Nha
comments: published version, 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 043816 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2687
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to implement a second-order nonlocal superposition operation and its variants by way of Hong-Ou-Mandel interference. The second-order coherent operations enable us to generate a NOON state with high particle number in a heralded fashion and also can be used to enhance the entanglement properties of continuous variable states. We discuss the feasibility of our proposed scheme considering realistic experimental conditions such as on-off photodetectors with nonideal efficiency and imperfect single-photon sources.

id: 1204.2700
title: Approximate bound states of the Dirac equation with some physical quantum potentials
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Math. Comput. 218 (20) (2012) 10082-10093
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2700
abstract: The approximate analytical solutions of the Dirac equations with the reflectionless-type and Rosen-Morse potentials including the spin-orbit centrifugal (pseudo-centrifugal) term are obtained. Under the conditions of spin and pseudospin (pspin) symmetry concept, we obtain the bound state energy spectra and the corresponding two-component upper- and lower-spinors of the two Dirac particles by means of the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method in closed form. The special cases of the s-wave {\kappa}=\pm1 (l=l=0) Dirac equation and the non-relativistic limit of Dirac equation are briefly studied.

id: 1204.2701
title: Perturbative Analysis of Spectral Singularities and Their Optical Realizations
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh, Saber Rostamzadeh
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures, one table, a reference added, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2701
abstract: We develop a perturbative method of computing spectral singularities of a Schreodinger operator defined by a general complex potential that vanishes outside a closed interval. These can be realized as zero-width resonances in optical gain media and correspond to a lasing effect that occurs at the threshold gain. Their time-reversed copies yield coherent perfect absorption of light that is also known as an antilaser. We use our general results to establish the exactness of the n-th order perturbation theory for an arbitrary complex potential consisting of n delta-functions, obtain an exact expression for the transfer matrix of these potentials, and examine spectral singularities of complex barrier potentials of arbitrary shape. In the context of optical spectral singularities, these correspond to inhomogeneous gain media.

id: 1204.2722
title: Package of facts and theorems for efficiently generating entanglement criteria for many qubits
authors: Marcin Wie?niak, Koji Maruyama
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062313 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2722
abstract: We present a package of mathematical theorems, which allow to construct multipartite entanglement criteria. Importantly, establishing bounds for certain classes of entanglement does not take an optimization over continuous sets of states. These bonds are found from the properties of commutativity graphs of operators used in the criterion. We present two examples of criteria constructed according to our method. One of them detects genuine 5-qubit entanglement without ever referring to correlations between all five qubits.

id: 1204.2738
title: Experimental Investigation of the Evolution of Gaussian Quantum Discord in an Open System
authors: Lars S. Madsen, Adriano Berni, Mikael Lassen, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 030402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2738
abstract: Gaussian quantum discord is a measure of quantum correlations in Gaussian systems. Using Gaussian discord we quantify the quantum correlations of a bipartite entangled state and a separable two-mode mixture of coherent states. We experimentally analyze the effect of noise addition and dissipation on Gaussian discord and show that the former noise degrades the discord while the latter noise for some states leads to an increase of the discord. In particular, we experimentally demonstrate the near-death of discord by noisy evolution and its revival through dissipation.

id: 1204.2750
title: Minimal and Robust Composite Two-Qubit Gates with Ising-Type Interaction
authors: Tsubasa Ichikawa, Utkan G¨¹ng?rd¨¹, Masamitsu Bando, Yasushi Kondo, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87 (2013) 022323
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2750
abstract: We construct a minimal robust controlled-NOT gate with an Ising-type interaction by which elementary two-qubit gates are implemented. It is robust against inaccuracy of the coupling strength and the obtained quantum circuits are constructed with the minimal number (N=3) of elementary two-qubit gates and several one-qubit gates. It is noteworthy that all the robust circuits can be mapped to one-qubit circuits robust against a pulse length error. We also prove that a minimal robust SWAP gate cannot be constructed with N=3, but requires N=6 elementary two-qubit gates.

id: 1204.2751
title: Do Hardy-type proposals test nonlocality of single-particle?
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0705.0322 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2751
abstract: It is argued that Hardy-type proposals assume either nonlocality at detection, and then beg the question, or "local empty waves" (local hidden variables), and then have to accept "many worlds" and cannot prove nonlocality.

id: 1204.2752
title: Extremality conditions for generalized channels
authors: Anna Jencova
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2752
abstract: A generalized channel is a completely positive map that preserves trace on a given subspace. We find conditions under which a generalized channel with respect to a positively generated subspace J is an extreme point in the set of all such generalized channels. As a special case, this yields extremality conditions for quantum protocols. In particular, we obtain new extremality conditions for quantum 1-testers with 2 outcomes, which correspond to yes/no measurements on the set of quantum channels.

id: 1204.2780
title: Electron vortex beams in a magnetic field: A new twist on Landau levels and Aharonov-Bohm states
authors: Konstantin Y. Bliokh, Peter Schattschneider, Jo Verbeeck, Franco Nori
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures, 1 table, to appear in Phys. Rev. X
journal: Phys. Rev. X 2, 041011 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2780
abstract: We examine the propagation of the recently-discovered electron vortex beams in a longitudinal magnetic field. We consider both the Aharonov-Bohm configuration with a single flux line and the Landau case of a uniform magnetic field. While stationary Aharonov-Bohm modes represent Bessel beams with flux- and vortex-dependent probability distributions, stationary Landau states manifest themselves as non-diffracting Laguerre-Gaussian beams. Furthermore, the Landau-state beams possess field- and vortex-dependent phases: (i) the Zeeman phase from coupling the quantized angular momentum to the magnetic field and (ii) the Gouy phase, known from optical Laguerre-Gaussian beams. Remarkably, together these phases determine the structure of Landau energy levels. This unified Zeeman-Landau-Gouy phase manifests itself in a nontrivial evolution of images formed by various superpositions of modes. We demonstrate that, depending on the chosen superposition, the image can rotate in a magnetic field with either (i) Larmor, (ii) cyclotron (double-Larmor), or (iii) zero frequency. At the same time, its centroid always follows the classical cyclotron trajectory, in agreement with the Ehrenfest theorem. Remarkably, the non-rotating superpositions reproduce stable multi-vortex configurations that appear in rotating superfluids. Our results open up an avenue for the direct electron-microscopy observation of fundamental properties of free quantum electron states in magnetic fields.

id: 1204.2789
title: Zero Discord for Markovian Bipartite Systems
authors: M. Arsenijevic, J. Jeknic-Dugic, M. Dugic
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1203.4612
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2789
abstract: Recent observation that almost all quantum states bear non-classical correlations [A. Ferraro et al, Phys. Rev. A 81, 052328 (2010)] may seem to imply that the Markovian bipartite systems are practically deprived of zero discord states. Nevertheless, complementary to the result of Ferraro et al, we construct a model of a Markovian bipartite system providing zero discord for arbitrary long time interval, that we term 'Markovian classicality'. Our model represents a matter-of-principle formal proof, i.e. a sufficient condition for the, otherwise not obvious, existence of Markovian classicality. Interestingly enough, we are not able to offer any alternative to the model. Physical relevance of the model is twofold. First, the model is in intimate relation to the topics of quantum information locality, quantum discord saturation and quantum decorrelation. Second, the model is of the general physical interest. It pertains to a specific structure (decomposition into parts/subsystems) of a composite system, not to a special physical kind of composite systems. Being a characteristic of a structure, by definition, the model of Markovian classicality is not a model of sudden death of discord. We emphasize wide-range implications of our results.

id: 1204.2821
title: A Near-Term Quantum Computing Approach for Hard Computational Problems in Space Exploration
authors: Vadim N. Smelyanskiy, Eleanor G. Rieffel, Sergey I. Knysh, Colin P. Williams, Mark W. Johnson, Murray C. Thom, William G. Macready, Kristen L. Pudenz
comments: 69 pages, 29 figures; corrected affiliations and acknowledgements, added some details, fixed typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2821
abstract: In this article, we show how to map a sampling of the hardest artificial intelligence problems in space exploration onto equivalent Ising models that then can be attacked using quantum annealing implemented in D-Wave machine. We overview the existing results as well as propose new Ising model implementations for quantum annealing. We review supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms for classification and clustering with applications to feature identification and anomaly detection. We introduce algorithms for data fusion and image matching for remote sensing applications. We overview planning problems for space exploration mission applications and algorithms for diagnostics and recovery with applications to deep space missions. We describe combinatorial optimization algorithms for task assignment in the context of autonomous unmanned exploration. Finally, we discuss the ways to circumvent the limitation of the Ising mapping using a "blackbox" approach based on ideas from probabilistic computing. In this article we describe the architecture of the D-Wave One machine and report its benchmarks. Results on random ensemble of problems in the range of up to 96 qubits show improved scaling for median core quantum annealing time compared with classical algorithms; whether this scaling persists for larger problem sizes is an open question. We also review previous results of D-Wave One benchmarking studies for solving binary classification problems with a quantum boosting algorithm which is shown to outperform AdaBoost. We review quantum algorithms for structured learning for multi-label classification and introduce a hybrid classical/quantum approach for learning the weights. Results of D-Wave One benchmarking studies for learning structured labels on four different data sets show a better performance compared with an independent Support Vector Machine approach with linear kernel.

id: 1204.2858
title: Image method in the calculation of the van der Waals force between an atom and a conducting surface
authors: Reinaldo de Melo e Souza, W.J.M. Kort-Kamp, C. Sigaud, C. Farina
comments: This is a pedagogical and introductory paper on van der Waals forces between an atom and a conducting surface
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2858
abstract: Initially, we make a detailed historical survey of van der Waals forces, collecting the main references on the subject. Then, we review a method recently proposed by Eberlein and Zietal to compute the dispersion van der Waals interaction between a neutral but polarizable atom and a perfectly conducting surface of arbitrary shape. This method has the advantage of relating the quantum problem to a corresponding classical one in electrostatics so that all one needs is to compute an appropriate Green function. We show how the image method of electrostatics can be conveniently used together with the Eberlein and Zietal mehtod (when the problem admits an image solution). We then illustrate this method in a couple of simple but important cases, including the atom-sphere system. Particularly, in our last example, we present an original result, namely, the van der Waals force between an atom and a boss hat made of a grounded conducting material.

id: 1204.2864
title: Efficient $k$-separability criteria for mixed multipartite quantum states
authors: Ting Gao, Yan Hong, Yao Lu, Fengli Yan
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhysics Letters, 104 (2013) 20007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2864
abstract: We investigate classification and detection of entanglement of multipartite quantum states in a very general setting, and obtain efficient $k$-separability criteria for mixed multipartite states in arbitrary dimensional quantum systems. These criteria can be used to distinguish $n-1$ different classes of multipartite inseparable states and can detect many important multipartite entangled states such as GHZ states, W states, anti W states, and mixtures thereof. They detect $k$-nonseparable $n$-partite quantum states which have previously not been identified. Here $k=2,3,\cdots,n$. No optimization or eigenvalue evaluation is needed, and our criteria can be evaluated by simple computations involving components of the density matrix. Most importantly, they can be implemented in today's experiments by using at most $\mathcal{O}(n^2)$ local measurements.

id: 1204.2865
title: Spin Glass: A Bridge between quantum computation and statistical mechanics
authors: Masayuki Ohzeki
comments: To appear in "Lectures on Quantum Computing, Thermodynamics and Statistical Physics," Kinki University Series on Quantum Computing (World Scientific, 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2865
abstract: We show two fascinating topics lying between quantum information processing and statistical mechanics. First, we introduce an elaborated technique, the surface code, to prepare the particular quantum state with robustness against decoherence. Second, we show another interesting technique to employ quantum nature, quantum annealing. Through both of the topics, we would shed light on the birth of the interdisciplinary field between quantum mechanics and statistical mechanics.

id: 1204.2870
title: Enhanced Quantization: A Primer
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: 11 pages, final version accepted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2870
abstract: Although classical mechanics and quantum mechanics are separate disciplines, we live in a world where Planck's constant \hbar>0, meaning that the classical and quantum world views must actually {\it coexist}. Traditionally, canonical quantization procedures postulate a direct linking of various c-number and q-number quantities that lie in disjoint realms, along with the quite distinct interpretations given to each realm. In this paper we propose a different association of classical and quantum quantities that renders classical theory a natural subset of quantum theory letting them coexist as required. This proposal also shines light on alternative linking assignments of classical and quantum quantities that offer different perspectives on the very meaning of quantization. In this paper we focus on elaborating the general principles, while elsewhere we have published several examples of what this alternative viewpoint can achieve; these examples include removal of singularities in classical solutions to certain models, and an alternative quantization of several field theory models that are trivial when quantized by traditional methods but become well defined and nontrivial when viewed from the new viewpoint.

id: 1204.2956
title: The Optimal Pure Gaussian State Associated with Joint Position-Momentum Measurements
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson
comments: one conclusion false
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2956
abstract: We show that given experimental data obtained from joint position and momentum measurements one can construct an optimal pure state approximating the observed quantum state. For that purpose we use a tool from multivariate statistical analysis (the MVE method), which relies on the existence of a minimum volume ellipsoid (the John--L\"owner ellipsoid) containing a given convex set. This method allows us to determine the shape of the covariance ellipsoid, which is thereafter calibrated using the expression of the uncertainty principle in terms of the notion of symplectic capacity. We finally use the Wigner formalism to produce the best approximating Gaussian state.

id: 1204.2982
title: The local content of all pure two-qubit states
authors: Samuel Portmann, Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012104 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2982
abstract: The (non-)local content in the sense of Elitzur, Popescu, and Rohrlich (EPR2) [Phys. Lett. A 162, 25 (1992)] is a natural measure for the (non-)locality of quantum states. Its computation is in general difficult, even in low dimensions, and is one of the few open questions about pure two-qubit states. We present a complete solution to this long-lasting problem.

id: 1204.2998
title: Reaching Fleming's dicrimination bound
authors: Gebhard Gruebl, Laurin Ostermann
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2998
abstract: Any rule for identifying a quantum system's state within a set of two non-orthogonal pure states by a single measurement is flawed. It has a non-zero probability of either yielding the wrong result or leaving the query undecided. This also holds if the measurement of an observable $A$ is repeated on a finite sample of $n$ state copies. We formulate a state identification rule for such a sample. This rule's probability of giving the wrong result turns out to be bounded from above by $1/n\delta_{A}^{2}$ with $\delta_{A}=|<A>_{1}-<A>_{2}|/(\Delta_{1}A+\Delta_{2}A).$ A larger $\delta_{A}$ results in a smaller upper bound. Yet, according to Fleming, $\delta_{A}$ cannot exceed $\tan\theta$ with $\theta\in(0,\pi/2) $ being the angle between the pure states under consideration. We demonstrate that there exist observables $A$ which reach the bound $\tan\theta$ and we determine all of them.

id: 1204.3000
title: Unconditional Security with Decoherence-Free Subspaces
authors: Ello¨¢ B. Guedes, Francisco M. de Assis
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3000
abstract: We show how to use decoherence-free subspaces over collective-noise quantum channels to convey classical information in perfect secrecy. We argue that codes defined over decoherence-free subspaces are codes for quantum wiretap channels in which the gain of information by a non-authorized receiver is zero. We also show that if some symmetry conditions are guaranteed, the maximum rate on which these secret communications take place is equal to the Holevo-Schumacher-Westmoreland capacity of the quantum channel.

id: 1204.3049
title: Response of a particle in a one-dimensional lattice to an applied force: Dynamics of the effective mass
authors: Federico Duque-Gomez, J. E. Sipe
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3049
abstract: We study the behaviour of the expectation value of the acceleration of a particle in a one-dimensional periodic potential when an external homogeneous force is suddenly applied. The theory is formulated in terms of modified Bloch states that include the interband mixing induced by the force. This approach allows us to understand the behaviour of the wavepacket, which responds with a mass that is initially the bare mass, and subsequently oscillates around the value predicted by the effective mass. If Zener tunneling can be neglected, the expression obtained for the acceleration of the particle is valid over timescales of the order of a Bloch oscillation, which are of interest for experiments with cold atoms in optical lattices. We discuss how these oscillations can be tuned in an optical lattice for experimental detection.

id: 1204.3056
title: A Versatile Source of Single Photons for Quantum Information Processing
authors: Michael F?rtsch, Josef F¨¹rst, Christoffer Wittmann, Dmitry Strekalov, Andrea Aiello, Maria V. Chekhova, Christine Silberhorn, Gerd Leuchs, Christoph Marquardt
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 4, 1818 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3056
abstract: The quantum state of a single photon stands among the most fundamental and intriguing manifestations of quantum physics. At the same time single photons and pairs of single photons are important building blocks in the fields of linear optical based quantum computation and quantum repeater infrastructure. These fields possess enormous potential and much scientific and technological progress has been made in developing individual components, like quantum memories and photon sources using various physical implementations. However, further progress suffers from the lack of compatibility between these different components. Ultimately, one aims for a versatile source of single photons and photon pairs in order to overcome this hurdle of incompatibility. Such a photon source should allow for tuning of the spectral properties (wide wavelength range and narrow bandwidth) to address different implementations while retaining high efficiency. In addition, it should be able to bridge different wavelength regimes to make implementations compatible. Here we introduce and experimentally demonstrate such a versatile single photon and photon pair source based on the physics of whispering gallery resonators. A disk-shaped, monolithic and intrinsically stable resonator is made of lithium niobate and supports a cavity-assisted triply-resonant spontaneous parametric down-conversion process. Measurements show that photon pairs are efficiently generated in two highly tunable resonator modes. We verify wavelength tuning over 100 nm between both modes with a controllable bandwidth between 7.2 and 13 MHz. Heralding of single photons yields anti-bunching with $g^{(2)}(0) < 0.2$. This compact source provides unprecedented possibilities to couple to different physical quantum systems and renders it ideal for the implementation of quantum repeaters and optical quantum information processing.

id: 1204.3065
title: Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle as Probe of Entanglement Entropy: Application to Superradiant Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Pierre Nataf, Mehmet Dogan, Karyn Le Hur
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. Published Version
journal: Physical Review A 86, 043807 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3065
abstract: Quantum phase transitions are often embodied by the critical behavior of purely quantum quantities such as entanglement or quantum fluctuations. In critical regions, we underline a general scaling relation between the entanglement entropy and one of the most fundamental and simplest measure of the quantum fluctuations, the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Then, we show that the latter represents a sensitive probe of superradiant quantum phase transitions in standard models of photons such as the Dicke Hamiltonian, which embodies an ensemble of two-level systems interacting with one quadrature of a single and uniform bosonic field. We derive exact results in the thermodynamic limit and for a finite number N of two-level systems: as a reminiscence of the entanglement properties between light and the two-level systems, the product $\Delta x\Delta p$ diverges at the quantum critical point as $N^{1/6}$. We generalize our results to the double quadrature Dicke model where the two quadratures of the bosonic field are now coupled to two independent sets of two level systems. Our findings, which show that the entanglement properties between light and matter can be accessed through the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, can be tested using Bose-Einstein condensates in optical cavities and circuit quantum electrodynamics

id: 1204.3107
title: Universal quantum computation with little entanglement
authors: Maarten Van den Nest
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 060504 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3107
abstract: We show that universal quantum computation can be achieved in the standard pure-state circuit model while, at any time, the entanglement entropy of all bipartitions is small---even tending to zero with growing system size. The result is obtained by showing that a quantum computer operating within a small region around the set of unentangled states still has universal computational power, and by using continuity of entanglement entropy. In fact an analogous conclusion applies to every entanglement measure which is continuous in a certain natural sense, which amounts to a large class. Other examples include the geometric measure, localizable entanglement, smooth epsilon-measures, multipartite concurrence, squashed entanglement, and several others. We discuss implications of these results for the believed role of entanglement as a key necessary resource for quantum speed-ups.

id: 1204.3143
title: Preparation of an Exponentially Rising Optical Pulse for Efficient Excitation of Single Atoms in Free Space
authors: Hoang Lan Dao, Syed Abdullah Aljunid, Gleb Maslennikov, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures, small technical note
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 83, 083104 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3143
abstract: We report on a simple method to prepare optical pulses with exponentially rising envelope on the time scale of a few ns. The scheme is based on the exponential transfer function of a fast transistor, which generates an exponentially rising envelope that is transferred first on a radio frequency carrier, and then on a coherent cw laser beam with an electro-optical phase modulator (EOM). The temporally shaped sideband is then extracted with an optical resonator and can be used to efficiently excite a single Rb-87 atom.

id: 1204.3172
title: Quantum Structures of the Hydrogen Atom
authors: J. Jeknic-Dugic, M. Dugic, A. Francom, M. Arsenijevic
comments: 14 pages, no figures, in press, Open Access Library Journal (2014)
journal: Open Access Library Journal, 1, e501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3172
abstract: Modern quantum theory introduces quantum structures (decompositions into subsystems) as a new discourse that is not fully comparable with the classical-physics counterpart. To this end, so-called Entanglement Relativity appears as a corollary of the universally valid quantum mechanics that can provide for a deeper and more elaborate description of the composite quantum systems. In this paper we employ this new concept to describe the hydrogen atom. We offer a consistent picture of the hydrogen atom as an open quantum system that naturally answers the following important questions: (a) how do the so called "quantum jumps" in atomic excitation and de-excitation occur? and (b) why does the classically and seemingly artificial "center-of-mass + relative degrees of freedom" structure appear as the primarily operable form in most of the experimental reality of atoms?

id: 1204.3229
title: Conditional measurement in noncontextual hidden variables models
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 11 pages. Progress of Theoretical Physics (in press). arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1201.4421
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 127 (2012), 989-996
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3229
abstract: The noncontextual hidden variables models in $d=2$, such as the ones constructed by Bell and by Kochen and Specker, have difficulties in accounting for the conditional measurement of two non-orthogonal projectors. An idea of branching in the hidden variables space, which provides a means to realize the notion of reduction effectively and describe the state preparation, is suggested as a way to resolve the difficulties associated with the conditional measurement.

id: 1204.3279
title: Antibunching photons in a cavity coupled to an optomechanical system
authors: Xun-Wei Xu, Yuan-Jie Li
comments: 7 papes, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 035502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3279
abstract: We study the photon statistics of a cavity linearly coupled to an optomechanical system via second order correlation functions. Our calculations show that the cavity can exhibit strong photon antibunching even when optomechanical interaction in the optomechanical system is weak. The cooperation between the weak optomechanical interaction and the destructive interference between different paths for two-photon excitation leads to the efficient antibunching effect. Compared with the standard optomechanical system, the coupling between a cavity and an optomechanical system provides a method to relax the constraints to obtain single photon by optomechanical interaction.

id: 1204.3296
title: Weak Measurements in Non-Hermitian Systems
authors: A. Matzkin
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 444023 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3296
abstract: "Weak measurements" -- involving a weak unitary interaction between a quantum system and a meter followed by a projective measurement -- are investigated when the system has a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. We show in particular how the standard definition of the "weak value" of an observable must be modified. These studies are undertaken in the context of bound state scattering theory, a non-Hermitian formalism for which the Hilbert spaces involved are unambiguously defined and the metric operators can be explicitly computed. Numerical examples are given for a model system.

id: 1204.3307
title: Multipartite maximally entangled states in symmetric scenarios
authors: Carlos E. Gonz¨¢lez Guill¨¦n
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3307
abstract: We consider the class of (N+1)-partite states suitable for protocols where there is a powerful party, the authority, and the other N parties play the same role, namely the state of their system live in the symmetric Hilbert space. We show that, within this scenario, there is a "maximally entangled state" that can be transform by a LOCC protocol into any other state. In addition, we show how to make the protocol efficiently including the construction of the state and discuss security issues for possible applications to cryptographic protocols. As an immediate consequence we recover a sequential protocol that implements the one to N symmetric cloning.

id: 1204.3330
title: Two-Layer Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: Fourteen pages and two figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3330
abstract: Recently a new quantum key distribution protocol using coherent and thermal states was proposed. In this work this kind of two-layer QKD protocol is formalized and its security against the most common attacks, including external control and Trojan horse attacks, is discussed.

id: 1204.3344
title: Franck-Condon Effect in Central Spin System
authors: Li-Ping Yang, Yong Li, C. P. Sun
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2012) 66: 300
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3344
abstract: We study the quantum transitions of a central spin surrounded by a collective-spin environment. It is found that the influence of the environmental spins on the absorption spectrum of the central spin can be explained with the analog of the Franck-Condon (FC) effect in conventional electron-phonon interaction system. Here, the collective spins of the environment behave as the vibrational mode, which makes the electron to be transitioned mainly with the so-called "vertical transitions" in the conventional FC effect. The "vertical transition" for the central spin in the spin environment manifests as, the certain collective spin states of the environment is favored, which corresponds to the minimal change in the average of the total spin angular momentum.

id: 1204.3370
title: Quantum walks with encrypted data
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Joseph F. Fitzsimons, Alexei Gilchrist
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 150501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3370
abstract: In the setting of networked computation, data security can be a significant concern. Here we consider the problem of allowing a server to remotely manipulate client supplied data, in such a way that both the information obtained by the client about the server's operation and the information obtained by the server about the client's data are significantly limited. We present a protocol for achieving such functionality in two closely related models of restricted quantum computation -- the Boson sampling and quantum walk models. Due to the limited technological requirements of the Boson scattering model, small scale implementations of this technique are feasible with present-day technology.

id: 1204.3373
title: How fast is the wave function collapse?
authors: A. Yu. Ignatiev
comments: 9 pages; v2: a shorter version to suit the 4 page limit of Proceedings of International Conference on Mathematical Modelling in Physical Sciences, 3-7 September 2012, Budapest, Hungary (IC-MSQUARE 2012)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 410 (2013) 012153
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3373
abstract: Using complex quantum Hamilton-Jacobi formulation, a new kind of non-linear equations is proposed that have almost classical structure and extend the Schroedinger equation to describe the collapse of the wave function as a finite-time process. Experimental bounds on the collapse time are reported (of order 0.1 ms to 0.1 ps) and its convenient dimensionless measure is introduced. This parameter helps to identify the areas where sensitive probes of the possible collapse dynamics can be done. Examples are experiments with Bose-Einstein condensates, ultracold neutrons or ultrafast optics.

id: 1204.3381
title: Photon-assisted Landau-Zener transition: Role of coherent superposition states
authors: Zhe Sun, Jian Ma, Xiaoguang Wang, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 86.012107 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3381
abstract: We investigate a Landau-Zener (LZ) transition process modeled by a quantum two-level system (TLS) coupled to a photon mode when the bias energy is varied linearly in time. The initial state of the photon field is assumed to be a superposition of coherent states, leading to a more intricate LZ transition. Applying the rotating-wave approximation (RWA), analytical results are obtained revealing the enhancement of the LZ probability by increasing the average photon number. We also consider the creation of entanglement and the change of photon statistics during the LZ process. Without the RWA, we find some qualitative differences of the LZ dynamics from the RWA results, e.g., the average photon number no longer monotonically enhances the LZ probability. The ramifications and implications of these results are explored.

id: 1204.3397
title: A strange weak value in spontaneous pair productions via a supercritical step potential
authors: Kazuhiro Yokota, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, close to published version
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 083021
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3397
abstract: We consider a case where a weak value is introduced as a physical quantity rather than an average of weak measurements. The case we treat is a time evolution of a particle by 1+1 dimensional Dirac equation. Particularly in a spontaneous pair production via a supercritical step potential, a quantitative explanation can be given by a weak value for the group velocity of the particle. We also show the condition for the pair production (supercriticality) corresponds to the condition when the weak value takes a strange value (superluminal velocity).

id: 1204.3404
title: Counterexamples to Kalai's Conjecture C
authors: Steven T. Flammia, Aram W. Harrow
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. v2, minor changes. To appear in QIC
journal: Q. Inf. & Comp. Vol. 13 No.1&2 pp. 1-8 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3404
abstract: We provide two simple counterexamples to Kalai's Conjecture C and discuss our perspective on the implications for the prospect of large-scale fault-tolerant quantum computation.

id: 1204.3412
title: Effect of Markov and Non-Markov Classical Noise on Entanglement Dynamics
authors: Paolo Bordone, Fabrizio Buscemi, Claudia Benedetti
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Fluct. Noise Lett. 11 (2012) 1242003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3412
abstract: We analyze the effect of a classical noise into the entanglement dynamics between two particles, initially entangled, subject to continuous time quantum walks in a one-dimensional lattice. The noise is modeled by randomizing the transition amplitudes from one site to another. Both Markovian and non-Markovian environments are considered. For the Markov regime an exponential decay of the initial quantum correlation is found, while the loss of coherence of the quantum state increases monotonically with time up to a saturation value depending upon the degrees of freedom of the system. For the non-Markov regime the presence or absence of entanglement revival and entanglement sudden death phenomena is found or deduced depending on the peculiar characteristics of the noise. Our results indicate that the entanglement dynamics in the non-Markovian regime is affected by the persistence of the memory effects of the environment and by its intrinsic features.

id: 1204.3427
title: Tomographic Probability Representation for States of Charge moving in Varying Field
authors: V. I. Man'ko, E. D. Zhebrak
comments: 12 pages, submitted to "Optics and Spectroscopy"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3427
abstract: The coherent and Fock states of a charge moving in varying homogeneous magnetic field are studied in the tomographic probability representation of quantum mechanics. The states are expressed in terms of quantum tomograms. The coherent states tomograms are shown to be described by normal distributions with varying dispersions and means. The Fock state tomograms are given in the form of probability distributions described by multivariable Hermite polynomials with time-dependent arguments.

id: 1204.3434
title: Self-adjoint Extensions for Confined Electrons:from a Particle in a Spherical Cavity to the Hydrogen Atom in a Sphere and on a Cone
authors: M. H. Al-Hashimi, U.-J. Wiese
comments: 22 pages, 9 Figures
journal: Annals of Physics 327 (2012) 1-28
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3434
abstract: In a recent study of the self-adjoint extensions of the Hamiltonian of a particle confined to a finite region of space, in which we generalized the Heisenberg uncertainty relation to a finite volume, we encountered bound states localized at the wall of the cavity. In this paper, we study this situation in detail both for a free particle and for a hydrogen atom centered in a spherical cavity. For appropriate values of the self-adjoint extension parameter, the bound states lo calized at the wall resonate with the standard hydrogen bound states. We also examine the accidental symmetry generated by the Runge-Lenz vector, which is explicitly broken in a spherical cavity with general Robin boundary conditions. However, for specific radii of the confining sphere, a remnant of the accidental symmetry persists. The same is true for an electron moving on the surface of a finite circular cone, bound to its tip by a 1/r potential.

id: 1204.3437
title: Does CHSH inequality test the model of local hidden variables?
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 17 pages. Progress of Theoretical Physics (in press). A typo in the first version was corrected
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 127 (2012), 975-987
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3437
abstract: It is pointed out that the local hidden variables model of Bell and Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) gives $|<B>|\leq 2\sqrt{2}$ or $|<B>|\leq 2$ for the quantum CHSH operator $B={\bf a}\cdot {\bf \sigma}\otimes ({\bf b}+{\bf b}^{\prime})\cdot {\bf \sigma} +{\bf a}^{\prime}\cdot{\bf \sigma}\otimes ({\bf b}-{\bf b}^{\prime})\cdot{\bf \sigma} $ depending on two different ways of evaluation, when it is applied to a $d=4$ system of two spin-1/2 particles. This is due to the failure of linearity, and it shows that the conventional CHSH inequality $|<B>|\leq 2$ does not provide a reliable test of the $d=4$ local non-contextual hidden variables model. To achieve $|<B>|\leq 2$ uniquely, one needs to impose a linearity requirement on the hidden variables model, which in turn adds a von Neumann-type stricture. It is then shown that the local model is converted to a factored product of two non-contextual $d=2$ hidden variables models. This factored product implies pure separable quantum states and satisfies $|<B>|\leq 2$, but no more a proper hidden variables model in $d=4$. The conventional CHSH inequality $|<B>|\leq 2$ thus characterizes the pure separable quantum mechanical states but does not test the model of local hidden variables in $d=4$, to be consistent with Gleason's theorem which excludes non-contextual models in $d=4$. This observation is also consistent with an application of the CHSH inequality to quantum cryptography by Ekert, which is based on mixed separable states without referring to hidden variables.

id: 1204.3448
title: Quantum reading under a local energy constraint
authors: Gaetana Spedalieri, Cosmo Lupo, Stefano Mancini, Samuel L. Braunstein, Stefano Pirandola
comments: REVTeX. 11 pages. 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012315 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3448
abstract: Nonclassical states of light play a central role in many quantum information protocols. Very recently, their quantum features have been exploited to improve the readout of information from digital memories, modeled as arrays of microscopic beam splitters [S. Pirandola, Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 090504 (2011)]. In this model of "quantum reading", a nonclassical source of light with Einstein-Podolski-Rosen correlations has been proven to retrieve more information than any classical source. In particular, the quantum-classical comparison has been performed under a global energy constraint, i.e., by fixing the mean total number of photons irradiated over each memory cell. In this paper we provide an alternative analysis which is based on a local energy constraint, meaning that we fix the mean number of photons per signal mode irradiated over the memory cell. Under this assumption, we investigate the critical number of signal modes after which a nonclassical source of light is able to beat any classical source irradiating the same number of signals.

id: 1204.3458
title: The logic of quantum mechanics - Take II
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: 23 pages, many figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3458
abstract: We put forward a new take on the logic of quantum mechanics, following Schroedinger's point of view that it is composition which makes quantum theory what it is, rather than its particular propositional structure due to the existence of superpositions, as proposed by Birkhoff and von Neumann. This gives rise to an intrinsically quantitative kind of logic, which truly deserves the name `logic' in that it also models meaning in natural language, the latter being the origin of logic, that it supports automation, the most prominent practical use of logic, and that it supports probabilistic inference.

id: 1204.3544
title: Weak measurements with orbital angular momentum pointer states
authors: G. Puentes, N. Hermosa, J. P. Torres
comments: 5 pages, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 040401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3544
abstract: Weak measurements are a unique tool for accessing information about weakly interacting quantum systems with minimal back action. Joint weak measurements of single-particle operators with pointer states characterized by a two-dimensional Gaussian distribution can provide, in turn, key information about quantum correlations which can be of relevance for quantum information applications. Here we demonstrate that by employing two-dimensional pointer states endowed with orbital angular momentum (OAM), it is possible to extract weak values of the higher order moments of single-particle operators, an inaccessible quantity with Gaussian pointer states only. We provide a specific example that illustrates the advantages of our method both, in terms of signal enhancement, and information retrieval.

id: 1204.3555
title: A 2D Quantum Walk Simulation of Two-Particle Dynamics
authors: Andreas Schreiber, Aurel Gabris, Peter P. Rohde, Kaisa Laiho, Martin Stefanak, Vaclav Potocek, Craig Hamilton, Igor Jex, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 
journal: Science 336 55-58 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3555
abstract: Multi-dimensional quantum walks can exhibit highly non-trivial topological structure, providing a powerful tool for simulating quantum information and transport systems. We present a flexible implementation of a 2D optical quantum walk on a lattice, demonstrating a scalable quantum walk on a non-trivial graph structure. We realized a coherent quantum walk over 12 steps and 169 positions using an optical fiber network. With our broad spectrum of quantum coins we were able to simulate the creation of entanglement in bipartite systems with conditioned interactions. Introducing dynamic control allowed for the investigation of effects such as strong non-linearities or two-particle scattering. Our results illustrate the potential of quantum walks as a route for simulating and understanding complex quantum systems.

id: 1204.3570
title: Probability distributions for quantum stress tensors in four dimensions
authors: Christopher J. Fewster, L. H. Ford, Thomas A. Roman
comments: 26 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85, 125038 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3570
abstract: We treat the probability distributions for quadratic quantum fields, averaged with a Lorentzian test function, in four-dimensional Minkowski vacuum. These distributions share some properties with previous results in two-dimensional spacetime. Specifically, there is a lower bound at a finite negative value, but no upper bound. Thus arbitrarily large positive energy density fluctuations are possible. We are not able to give closed form expressions for the probability distribution, but rather use calculations of a finite number of moments to estimate the lower bounds, the asymptotic forms for large positive argument, and possible fits to the intermediate region. The first 65 moments are used for these purposes. All of our results are subject to the caveat that these distributions are not uniquely determined by the moments. However, we also give bounds on the cumulative distribution function that are valid for any distribution fitting these moments.We apply the asymptotic form of the electromagnetic energy density distribution to estimate the nucleation rates of black holes and of Boltzmann brains.

id: 1204.3571
title: Exchange Fluctuation Theorem for correlated quantum systems
authors: Sania Jevtic, David Jennings, Terry Rudolph, Yuji Hirono, Shojun Nakayama, Mio Murao
comments: Lots of new material added, a figure, and a new author, 13 pages, 1 figure, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3571
abstract: We extend the Exchange Fluctuation Theorem for energy exchange between thermal quantum systems beyond the assumption of molecular chaos, and describe the non-equilibrium exchange dynamics of correlated quantum states. The relation quantifies how the tendency for systems to equilibrate is modified in high-correlation environments. Our results elucidate the role of measurement disturbance for such scenarios. We show a simple application by finding a semi-classical maximum work theorem in the presence of correlations.

id: 1204.3587
title: Solving Large-Scale Optimization Problems Related to Bell's Theorem
authors: Jacek Gondzio, Jacek A. Gruca, J. A. Julian Hall, Wies?aw Laskowski, Marek ?ukowski
comments: 19 pages, 7 tables, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics 263, 392 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3587
abstract: Impossibility of finding local realistic models for quantum correlations due to entanglement is an important fact in foundations of quantum physics, gaining now new applications in quantum information theory. We present an in-depth description of a method of testing the existence of such models, which involves two levels of optimization: a higher-level non-linear task and a lower-level linear programming (LP) task. The article compares the performances of the existing implementation of the method, where the LPs are solved with the simplex method, and our new implementation, where the LPs are solved with a matrix-free interior point method. We describe in detail how the latter can be applied to our problem, discuss the basic scenario and possible improvements and how they impact on overall performance. Significant performance advantage of the matrix-free interior point method over the simplex method is confirmed by extensive computational results. The new method is able to solve problems which are orders of magnitude larger. Consequently, the noise resistance of the non-classicality of correlations of several types of quantum states, which has never been computed before, can now be efficiently determined. An extensive set of data in the form of tables and graphics is presented and discussed. The article is intended for all audiences, no quantum-mechanical background is necessary.

id: 1204.3594
title: Shortcuts to adiabaticity: fast-forward approach
authors: E. Torrontegui, S. Mart¨ªnez-Garaot, A. Ruschhaupt, J. G. Muga
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3594
abstract: The "fast-forward" approach by Masuda and Nakamura generates driving potentials to accelerate slow quantum adiabatic dynamics. First we present a streamlined version of the formalism that produces the main results in a few steps. Then we show the connection between this approach and inverse engineering based on Lewis-Riesenfeld invariants. We identify in this manner applications in which the engineered potential does not depend on the initial state. Finally we discuss more general applications exemplified by wave splitting processes.

id: 1204.3599
title: Tensor Networks for Entanglement Evolution
authors: Sebastian Meznaric, Jacob Biamonte
comments: 11 eps figure files, revtex4-1
journal: Advances in Chemical Physics, Volume 154, Chapter 17, Pages 561-574 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3599
abstract: The intuitiveness of the tensor network graphical language is becoming well known through its use in numerical simulations using methods from tensor network algorithms. Recent times have also seen rapid progress in developing equations of motion to predict the time evolution of quantum entanglement [Nature Physics, 4(\textbf{4}):99, 2008]. Here we cast these recent results into a tensor network framework and in doing so, construct a theory which exposes the topological equivalence of the evolution of a family of entanglement monotones in arbitrary dimensions. This unification was accomplished by tailoring a form of channel state duality through the interpretation of graphical tensor network rewrite rules. The introduction of tensor network methods to the theory of entanglement evolution opens the door to apply methods from the rapidly evolving area known as tensor network states.

id: 1204.3600
title: Universal Programmable Quantum Circuit Schemes to Emulate an Operator
authors: Anmer Daskin, Ananth Grama, Giorgos Kollias, Sabre Kais
comments: combined with former arXiv:1207.1740
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 234112 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Computer Science (cs.OH)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3600
abstract: Unlike fixed designs, programmable circuit designs support an infinite number of operators. The functionality of a programmable circuit can be altered by simply changing the angle values of the rotation gates in the circuit. Here, we present a new quantum circuit design technique resulting in two general programmable circuit schemes. The circuit schemes can be used to simulate any given operator by setting the angle values in the circuit. This provides a fixed circuit design whose angles are determined from the elements of the given matrix-which can be non-unitary-in an efficient way. We also give both the classical and quantum complexity analysis for these circuits and show that the circuits require a few classical computations. They have almost the same quantum complexities as non-general circuits. Since the presented circuit designs are independent from the matrix decomposition techniques and the global optimization processes used to find quantum circuits for a given operator, high accuracy simulations can be done for the unitary propagators of molecular Hamiltonians on quantum computers. As an example, we show how to build the circuit design for the hydrogen molecule.

id: 1204.3614
title: Non-Markovian Quantum Dynamics and Classical Chaos
authors: I. Garcia-Mata, C. Pineda, D. A. Wisniacki
comments: Closest to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022114 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3614
abstract: We study the influence of a chaotic environment in the evolution of an open quantum system. We show that there is an inverse relation between chaos and non-Markovianity. In particular, we remark on the deep relation of the short time non-Markovian behavior with the revivals of the average fidelity amplitude-a fundamental quantity used to measure sensitivity to perturbations and to identify quantum chaos. The long time behavior is established as a finite size effect which vanishes for large enough environments.

id: 1204.3644
title: Certifying experimental errors in quantum experiments
authors: Tobias Moroder, Matthias Kleinmann, Philipp Schindler, Thomas Monz, Otfried G¨¹hne, Rainer Blatt
comments: 4+ pages, 2 figures, 1 table, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 180401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3644
abstract: When experimental errors are ignored in an experiment, the subsequent analysis of its results becomes questionable. We develop tests to detect systematic errors in quantum experiments where only a finite amount of data is recorded and apply these tests to tomographic data taken in an ion trap experiment. We put particular emphasis on quantum state tomography and present three detection methods: the first two employ linear inequalities while the third is based on the generalized likelihood ratio.

id: 1204.3657
title: Deriving Some Quantum Optical Identities Using the General Ordering Theorem
authors: F. Sh?handeh, M. R. Bazrafkan, E. Nahvifard
comments: 
journal: Chin. Phys. B (2012) 21 (11) 114202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3657
abstract: Using the newly introduced general ordering theorem (GOT) by Sh\"ahandeh and Bazrafkan, we derive and generalize some quantum optical identities and give their applications.

id: 1204.3668
title: Exact solvability of the quantum Rabi models within Bogoliubov operators
authors: Qing-Hu Chen, Chen Wang, Shu He, Tao Liu, Ke-Lin Wang
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023822 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3668
abstract: The quantum Rabi model can be solved exactly by the Bargmann transformation from real coordinate to complex variable recently [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{107}, 100401 (2011)]. By the extended coherent states, we recover this solution in an alternative simpler and perhaps more physical way without uses of any extra conditions, like Bargmann conditions. In the same framework, the two-photon Rabi model are solved exactly by extended squeeze states. Transcendental functions have been derived with the similar form as those in one-photon model. Both extended coherent states and squeeze states are essentially Fock states in the space of the corresponding Bogoliubov operators. The present approach could be easily extended to study the exact solvability or integrability of various spin-boson systems with multi-level, even multi-mode.

id: 1204.3681
title: Locality for quantum systems on graphs depends on the number field
authors: H. Tracy Hall, Simone Severini
comments: 9 pages
journal: 2013 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 295301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3681
abstract: Adapting a definition of Aaronson and Ambainis [Theory Comput. 1 (2005), 47--79], we call a quantum dynamics on a digraph "saturated Z-local" if the nonzero transition amplitudes specifying the unitary evolution are in exact correspondence with the directed edges (including loops) of the digraph. This idea appears recurrently in a variety of contexts including angular momentum, quantum chaos, and combinatorial matrix theory. Complete characterization of the digraph properties that allow such a process to exist is a long-standing open question that can also be formulated in terms of minimum rank problems. We prove that saturated Z-local dynamics involving complex amplitudes occur on a proper superset of the digraphs that allow restriction to the real numbers or, even further, the rationals. Consequently, among these fields, complex numbers guarantee the largest possible choice of topologies supporting a discrete quantum evolution. A similar construction separates complex numbers from the skew field of quaternions. The result proposes a concrete ground for distinguishing between complex and quaternionic quantum mechanics.

id: 1204.3697
title: Fundamental quantum limits to waveform detection
authors: Mankei Tsang, Ranjith Nair
comments: v1: first draft, 5 pages; v2: updated and extended, 5 pages + appendices, 2 figures; v3: 8 pages and 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 042115 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3697
abstract: Ever since the inception of gravitational-wave detectors, limits imposed by quantum mechanics to the detection of time-varying signals have been a subject of intense research and debate. Drawing insights from quantum information theory, quantum detection theory, and quantum measurement theory, here we prove lower error bounds for waveform detection via a quantum system, settling the long-standing problem. In the case of optomechanical force detection, we derive analytic expressions for the bounds in some cases of interest and discuss how the limits can be approached using quantum control techniques.

id: 1204.3741
title: Optimal inequalities for state-independent contextuality
authors: Matthias Kleinmann, Costantino Budroni, Jan-Ake Larsson, Otfried G¨¹hne, Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4.1, 5 pages, 1 figure; v2: improved presentation and significantly extended results
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 250402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3741
abstract: Contextuality is a natural generalization of nonlocality which does not need composite systems or spacelike separation and offers a wider spectrum of interesting phenomena. Most notably, in quantum mechanics there exist scenarios where the contextual behavior is independent of the quantum state. We show that the quest for an optimal inequality separating quantum from classical noncontextual correlations in an state-independent manner admits an exact solution, as it can be formulated as a linear program. We introduce the noncontextuality polytope as a generalization of the locality polytope, and apply our method to identify two different tight optimal inequalities for the most fundamental quantum scenario with state-independent contextuality.

id: 1204.3746
title: Entanglement robustness and geometry in systems of identical particles
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, U. Marzolino
comments: 20 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042329 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3746
abstract: The robustness properties of bipartite entanglement in systems of N bosons distributed in M different modes are analyzed using a definition of separability based on commuting algebras of observables, a natural choice when dealing with identical particles. Within this framework, expressions for the robustness and generalized robustness of entanglement can be explicitly given for large classes of boson states: their entanglement content results in general much more stable than that of distinguishable particles states. Using these results, the geometrical structure of the space of N boson states can be explicitly addressed.

id: 1204.3761
title: Fundamental limits on the accuracy of optical phase estimation from rate-distortion theory
authors: Ranjith Nair
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3761
abstract: Lower bounds are derived on the average mean-squared error of optical phase estimation in a Bayesian framework using classical rate-distortion theory in conjunction with the classical capacity of the lossy and lossless optical channel under phase modulation. With no optical loss, the bound displays Heisenberg-limit scaling of the mean-squared error \delta\Phi^2 \sim 1/N_S^2 where N_S is the average number of photons in the probe state. In the presence of nonzero loss, a lower bound with standard-quantum-limit (SQL) asymptotic scaling is derived. The bounds themselves are non-asymptotic and valid for any prior probability distribution of the phase.

id: 1204.3766
title: New, Highly Accurate Propagator for the Linear and Nonlinear Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Hillel Tal-Ezer, Ronnie Kosloff, Ido Schaefer
comments: 14 pages
journal: Journal of Scientific Computing (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3766
abstract: A propagation method for the time dependent Schr\"odinger equation was studied leading to a general scheme of solving ode type equations. Standard space discretization of time-dependent pde's usually results in system of ode's of the form u_t -Gu = s where G is a operator (matrix) and u is a time-dependent solution vector. Highly accurate methods, based on polynomial approximation of a modified exponential evolution operator, had been developed already for this type of problems where G is a linear, time independent matrix and s is a constant vector. In this paper we will describe a new algorithm for the more general case where s is a time-dependent r.h.s vector. An iterative version of the new algorithm can be applied to the general case where G depends on t or u. Numerical results for Schr\"odinger equation with time-dependent potential and to non-linear Schr\"odinger equation will be presented.

id: 1204.3777
title: Quantum statistical synchronization of non-interacting particles
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Markus Tiersch, Fernando de Melo, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: M. Hiller, F. de Melo, P. Pickl, Th. Wellens, S. Wimberger (Eds.): Proceedings of New Perspectives in Quantum Statistics and Correlations, pag. 29 (2012). Universit\"atsverlag Winter (Heidelberg)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3777
abstract: A full treatment for the scattering of an arbitrary number of bosons through a Bell multiport beam splitter is presented that includes all possible output arrangements. Due to exchange symmetry, the event statistics differs dramatically from the classical case in which the realization probabilities are given by combinatorics. A law for the suppression of output configurations is derived and shown to apply for the majority of all possible arrangements. Such multiparticle interference effects dominate at the level of single transition amplitudes, while a generic bosonic signature can be observed when the average number of occupied ports or the typical number of particles per port is considered. The results allow to classify in a common approach several recent experiments and theoretical studies and disclose many accessible quantum statistical effects involving many particles.

id: 1204.3782
title: A New Theorem on the Nonclassicality of States
authors: F. Sh?handeh, M. R. Bazrafkan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3782
abstract: A new theorem on the non-classicality depth of states has been proved. We show that if $W_{\hat \rho} (\alpha_m,s_m)=0$ exist for some value of the ordering parameter $s$ at some phase-space point $\alpha_m$, and if $W_{\hat \rho} (\alpha,s_m)$ is an acceptable quasi-classical distribution, the non-classicality of $\hat \rho$ in parallel with Lee's non-classicality depth is then given by $\tau_m=(1 - s_m)/2$. In this way, a general examination of the effects of the single-photon-addition and -subtraction operations has been studied. The theorem, indeed, provides a theoretical background for generating quantum states of arbitrary non-classicality depth.

id: 1204.3793
title: Quantum error correction benchmarks for continuous weak parity measurements
authors: Gabrielle Denhez, Alexandre Blais, David Poulin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032318 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3793
abstract: We present an experimental procedure to determine the usefulness of a measurement scheme for quantum error correction (QEC). A QEC scheme typically requires the ability to prepare entangled states, to carry out multi-qubit measurements, and to perform certain recovery operations conditioned on measurement outcomes. As a consequence, the experimental benchmark of a QEC scheme is a tall order because it requires the conjuncture of many elementary components. Our scheme opens the path to experimental benchmarks of individual components of QEC. Our numerical simulations show that certain parity measurements realized in circuit quantum electrodynamics are on the verge of being useful for QEC.

id: 1204.3803
title: Quantum discord and classical correlation can tighten the uncertainty principle in the presence of quantum memory
authors: Arun Kumar Pati, Mark M. Wilde, A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal, Sudha
comments: v1: Latex, 4 and half pages, one fig; v2: 9 pages including 4-page appendix; v3: accepted into Physical Review A with minor changes
journal: Physical Review A 86, 042105 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3803
abstract: Uncertainty relations capture the essence of the inevitable randomness associated with the outcomes of two incompatible quantum measurements. Recently, Berta et al. have shown that the lower bound on the uncertainties of the measurement outcomes depends on the correlations between the observed system and an observer who possesses a quantum memory. If the system is maximally entangled with its memory, the outcomes of two incompatible measurements made on the system can be predicted precisely. Here, we obtain a new uncertainty relation that tightens the lower bound of Berta et al., by incorporating an additional term that depends on the quantum discord and the classical correlations of the joint state of the observed system and the quantum memory. We discuss several examples of states for which our new lower bound is tighter than the bound of Berta et al. On the application side, we discuss the relevance of our new inequality for the security of quantum key distribution and show that it can be used to provide bounds on the distillable common randomness and the entanglement of formation of bipartite quantum states.

id: 1204.3829
title: Bell inequalities for three systems and arbitrarily many measurement outcomes
authors: Basile Grandjean, Yeong-Cherng Liang, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Nicolas Brunner, Nicolas Gisin
comments: v1 6 pages, 4 tables; v2 Published version with minor typos corrected
journal: Physical Review A, vol 85, art. 052113 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3829
abstract: We present a family of Bell inequalities for three parties and arbitrarily many outcomes, which can be seen as a natural generalization of the Mermin Bell inequality. For a small number of outcomes, we verify that our inequalities define facets of the polytope of local correlations. We investigate the quantum violations of these inequalities, in particular with respect to the Hilbert space dimension. We provide strong evidence that the maximal quantum violation can only be reached using systems with local Hilbert space dimension exceeding the number of measurement outcomes. This suggests that our inequalities can be used as multipartite dimension witnesses.

id: 1204.3835
title: Optimal free-will on one side in reproducing the singlet correlation
authors: Manik Banik, MD Rajjak Gazi, Subhadipa Das, Ashutosh Rai, Samir Kunkri
comments: 7 pages (single column), accepted in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 205301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3835
abstract: Bell's theorem teaches us that there are quantum correlations that can not be simulated by just shared randomness (Local Hidden variable). There are some recent results which simulate singlet correlation by using either 1 cbit or a binary (no-signaling) correlation which violate Bell's inequality maximally. But there is one more possible way to simulate quantum correlation by relaxing the condition of independency of measurement on shared randomness. Recently, MJW Hall showed that the statistics of singlet state can be generated by sacrificing measurement independence where underlying distribution of hidden variables depend on measurement direction of both parties [Phys. Rev. Lett.105 250404 (2010)]. He also proved that for any model of singlet correlation, 86% measurement independence is optimal. In this paper, we show that 59% measurement independence is optimal for simulating singlet correlation when the underlying distribution of hidden variables depend only on measurements of one party. We also show that a distribution corresponding to this optimal lack of free will, already exists in literature which first appeared in the context of detection efficiency loophole.

id: 1204.3840
title: Classical communication and non-classical fidelity of quantum teleportation
authors: Manik Banik, Md. Rajjak Gazi
comments: Accepted in Quantum Info. Process
journal: Quantum Inf Process 12, 3607 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3840
abstract: In quantum teleportation, the role of entanglement has been much discussed. It is known that entanglement is necessary for achieving non-classical teleportation fidelity. Here we focus on the amount of classical communication that is necessary to obtain non-classical fidelity in teleportation. We quantify the amount of classical communication that is sufficient for achieving non-classical fidelity for two independent 1-bit and single 2-bits noisy classical channels. It is shown that on average 0.208 bits of classical communication is sufficient to get non-classical fidelity. We also find the necessary amount of classical communication in case of isotropic transformation. Finally we study how the amount of sufficient classical communication increases with weakening of entanglement used in the teleportation process.

id: 1204.3854
title: System with classical and quantum subsystems in tomographic probability representation
authors: V. N. Chernega, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 6 pages, to appear in AIP 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3854
abstract: Description of system containing classical and quantum subsystems by means of tomographic probability distributions is considered. Evolution equation of the system states is studied.

id: 1204.3912
title: X-matrices provide a lower bound of concurrence
authors: S. M. Hashemi rafsanjani, S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3912
abstract: By focusing on the X-matrix part of a density matrix of two qubits we provide an algebraic lower bound for the concurrence. The lower bound is generalized for cases beyond two qubits and can serve as a sufficient condition for non-separability for bipartite density matrices of arbitrary dimension. Experimentally, our lower bound can be used to confirm non-separability without performing a complete state tomography.

id: 1204.3967
title: All-atomic generation and noise-quadrature filtering of squeezed vacuum in hot Rb vapor
authors: Travis Horrom, Gleb Romanov, Irina Novikova, Eugeniy E. Mikhailov
comments: 
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Issues 1, 60, 43-49, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3967
abstract: With our all-atomic squeezing and filtering setup, we demonstrate control over the noise amplitudes and manipulation of the frequency-dependent squeezing angle of a squeezed vacuum quantum state by passing it through an atomic medium with electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). We generate low sideband frequency squeezed vacuum using the polarization self-rotation effect in a hot Rb vapor cell, and input it into a second atomic vapor subject to EIT conditions. We use the frequency-dependent absorption of the EIT window to demonstrate an example of squeeze amplitude attenuation and squeeze angle rotation of the quantum noise quadratures of the squeezed probe. These studies have implications for quantum memory and storage as well as gravitational wave interferometric detectors.

id: 1204.3969
title: Wavefunction collapse via a nonlocal relativistic variational principle
authors: Alan K. Harrison
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3969
abstract: We propose, as an alternative theory of quantum mechanics, a relativistically covariant variational principle (VP) capable of describing both wavefunction collapse and, as an appropriate limiting case, evolution of the wavefunction according to the standard quantum mechanical (SQM) wave equation. This results in a nonlinear, nonlocal, time-symmetric hidden-variable theory; the hidden variable is the phase of the wavefunction, which affects the dynamics via zitterbewegung. The VP is \delta (A_1 + \epsilon A_2) = 0, in which A_1 and A_2 are positive definite integrals (over all spacetime) of functions of the wavefunction \psi. A_1 is quadratic in deviations of the wavefunction from compliance with the SQM wave equation. A_2 is a measure of the uncertainty of the wavefunction, driving collapse by penalizing certain kinds of superpositions. We also show that A_1 limits the rate of collapse, and that it enforces the Born rule, with suitable assumptions and approximations. Since the VP optimizes a function {\psi} of both space and time, the theory is not "causal" in the usual sense. Because it is not clear how Nature solves the optimization problem (e.g., whether a global or a local minimum is sought), we cannot yet say whether it is deterministic.

id: 1204.3981
title: Spatial mode storage in a gradient echo memory
authors: Daniel B. Higginbottom, Ben M. Sparkes, Milos Rancic, Olivier Pinel, Mahdi Hosseini, Ping Koy Lam, Ben C. Buchler
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3981
abstract: Three-level atomic gradient echo memory (lambda-GEM) is a proposed candidate for efficient quantum storage and for linear optical quantum computation with time-bin multiplexing. In this paper we investigate the spatial multimode properties of a lambda-GEM system. Using a high-speed triggered CCD, we demonstrate the storage of complex spatial modes and images. We also present an in-principle demonstration of spatial multiplexing by showing selective recall of spatial elements of a stored spin wave. Using our measurements, we consider the effect of diffusion within the atomic vapour and investigate its role in spatial decoherence. Our measurements allow us to quantify the spatial distortion due to both diffusion and inhomogeneous control field scattering and compare these to theoretical models.

id: 1204.4005
title: Electric Field effects on quantum correlations in semiconductor quantum dots
authors: S. Shojaei, M. Mahdian, R. Yousefjani
comments: 6 pages,6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4005
abstract: We study the effect of external electric bias on the quantum correlations in the array of optically excited coupled semiconductor quantum dots. The correlations are characterized by the quantum discord and concurrence and are observed using excitonic qubits. We employ the lower bound of concurrence for thermal density matrix at different temperatures. The effect of the F\"orster interaction on correlations will be studied. Our theoretical model detects nonvanishing quantum discord when the electric field is on while concurrence dies, ensuring the existence of nonclassical correlations as measured by the quantum discord.

id: 1204.4011
title: Correlation dynamics of three spin under a classical dephasing environment
authors: M. Mahdian, R. Yousefjani, S. Salimi
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4011
abstract: By starting from the stochastic Hamiltonian of the three correlated spins and modeling their frequency fluctuations as caused by dephasing noisy environments described by Ornstein-Uhlenbeck processes, we study the dynamics of quantum correlations, including entanglement and quantum discord. We prepared initially our open system with Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger or W state and present the exact solutions for evolution dynamics of entanglement and quantum discord between three spins under both Markovian and non-Markovian regime of this classical noise. By comparison the dynamics of entanglement with that of quantum discord we find that entanglement can be more robust than quantum discord against this noise. It is shown that by considering non-Markovian extensions the survival time of correlations prolong.

id: 1204.4022
title: Quantum Tasks in Minkowski Space
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: 
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29 (2012) 224013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4022
abstract: The fundamental properties of quantum information and its applications to computing and cryptography have been greatly illuminated by considering information-theoretic tasks that are provably possible or impossible within non-relativistic quantum mechanics. I describe here a general framework for defining tasks within (special) relativistic quantum theory and illustrate it with examples from relativistic quantum cryptography and relativistic distributed quantum computation. The framework gives a unified description of all tasks previously considered and also defines a large class of new questions about the properties of quantum information in relation to Minkowski causality. It offers a way of exploring interesting new fundamental tasks and applications, and also highlights the scope for a more systematic understanding of the fundamental information-theoretic properties of relativistic quantum theory.

id: 1204.4027
title: Relativistic entanglement in single-particle quantum states using Non-Linear entanglement witnesses
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, M. Mahdian
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures; to be published in Quantum Inf Process, 10.1007/s11128-011-0289-z (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4027
abstract: In this study, the spin-momentum correlation of one massive spin-1/2 and spin-1 particle states, which are made based on projection of a relativistic spin operator into timelike direction is investigated. It is shown that by using Non-Linear entanglement witnesses (NLEWs), the effect of Lorentz transformation would decrease both the amount and the region of entanglement.

id: 1204.4059
title: Short Time Cycles of Purely Quantum Refrigerators
authors: Tova Feldmann, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures. Among the figures there are 6 figures which are double, namely with two parts, Top and Bottom
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4059
abstract: Four stroke Otto refrigerator cycles with no classical analogue are studied. Extremely short cycle times with respect to the internal time scale of the working medium characterize these refrigerators. Therefore these cycles are termed sudden. The sudden cycles are characterized by the stable limit cycle which is the invariant of the global cycle propagator. During their operation the state of the working medium possesses significant coherence which is not erased in the equilibration segments due to the very short time allocated. This characteristic is reflected in a difference between the energy entropy and the Von Neumann entropy of the working medium. A classification scheme for sudden refrigerators is developed allowing simple approximations for the cooling power and coefficient of performance.

id: 1204.4221
title: Magic-state distillation with the four-qubit code
authors: Adam M. Meier, Bryan Eastin, Emanuel Knill
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4221
abstract: The distillation of magic states is an often-cited technique for enabling universal quantum computing once the error probability for a special subset of gates has been made negligible by other means. We present a routine for magic-state distillation that reduces the required overhead for a range of parameters of practical interest. Each iteration of the routine uses a four-qubit error-detecting code to distill the +1 eigenstate of the Hadamard gate at a cost of ten input states per two improved output states. Use of this routine in combination with the 15-to-1 distillation routine described by Bravyi and Kitaev allows for further improvements in overhead.

id: 1204.4235
title: Comment on "Security Proof for Cryptographic Protocols Based Only on Monogamy of Bell's Inequality Violations"
authors: Won-Young Hwang, Oleg Gittsovich
comments: 1 page, see also reply [PRA 85, 046302 (2012)]
journal: Physical Review A 85, 046301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4235
abstract: Recently, Pawlowski [Phys. Rev. A 82, 032313 (2010)] claimed to have proven the security of a quantum key distribution by using only the monogamy of Bell's inequality violations. In the proof, however, he tacitly assumed that the eavesdropper's outcome is binary. The assumption cannot be justified because Eve's (eavesdropper's) power can only be limited by natural principle. We provide a counter-example for a step of the proof.

id: 1204.4275
title: On small proofs of Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem for two, three and four qubits
authors: Michel Planat
comments: version to appear in European Physical Journal Plus
journal: European Physical Journal Plus 127, 8 (2012) 86
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4275
abstract: The Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem (BKS) theorem rules out realistic {\it non-contextual} theories by resorting to impossible assignments of rays among a selected set of maximal orthogonal bases. We investigate the geometrical structure of small $v-l$ BKS-proofs involving $v$ real rays and $l$ $2n$-dimensional bases of $n$-qubits ($1< n < 5$). Specifically, we look at the parity proof 18-9 with two qubits (A. Cabello, 1996), the parity proof 36-11 with three qubits (M. Kernaghan & A. Peres, 1995 \cite{Kernaghan1965}) and a newly discovered non-parity proof 80-21 with four qubits (that improves work of P. K Aravind's group in 2008). The rays in question arise as real eigenstates shared by some maximal commuting sets (bases) of operators in the $n$-qubit Pauli group. One finds characteristic signatures of the distances between the bases, which carry various symmetries in their graphs.

id: 1204.4288
title: Distinguishing Causality Principles
authors: Mikl¨®s R¨¦dei, I?aki San Pedro
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics 43 (2012) 84-89
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4288
abstract: We distinguish two sub-types of each of the two causality principles formulated in connection with the Common Cause Principle in [Hen05] and raise and investigate the problem of logical relations among the resulting four causality principles. Based in part on the analysis of the status of these four principles in algebraic quantum field theory we will argue that the four causal principles are non-equivalent.

id: 1204.4317
title: Geometric measure of entanglement of multipartite mixed states
authors: Shenglong Hu, Liqun Qi, Yisheng Song, Guofeng Zhang
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4317
abstract: The geometric measure of entanglement of a pure state, defined by its distance to the set of pure separable states, is extended to multipartite mixed states. We characterize the nearest disentangled mixed state to a given mixed state with respect to this measure by a system of equations. The entanglement eigenvalue for a mixed state is introduced. For a given mixed state, we show that its nearest disentangled mixed state is associated with its entanglement eigenvalue.

id: 1204.4325
title: Models of Wave-function Collapse, Underlying Theories, and Experimental Tests
authors: Angelo Bassi, Kinjalk Lochan, Seema Satin, Tejinder P. Singh, Hendrik Ulbricht
comments: 130 pages, 4 figures, shortened to meet journal page limit requirement, original Appendix on Stochastic Processes now appears as separate article on arXiv [quant-ph], accepted for publication in Reviews of Modern Physics [this http URL]
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 85, 471-527 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4325
abstract: Quantum mechanics is an extremely successful theory that agrees with every experiment. However, the principle of linear superposition, a central tenet of the theory, apparently contradicts a commonplace observation: macroscopic objects are never found in a linear superposition of position states. Moreover, the theory does not really explain as to why during a quantum measurement, deterministic evolution is replaced by probabilistic evolution, whose random outcomes obey the Born probability rule. In this article we review an experimentally falsifiable phenomenological proposal, known as Continuous Spontaneous Collapse: a stochastic non-linear modification of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation, which resolves these problems, while giving the same experimental results as quantum theory in the microscopic regime. Two underlying theories for this phenomenology are reviewed: Trace Dynamics, and gravity induced collapse. As one approaches the macroscopic scale, the predictions of this proposal begin to differ appreciably from those of quantum theory, and are being confronted by ongoing laboratory experiments that include molecular interferometry and optomechanics. These experiments, which essentially test the validity of linear superposition for large systems, are reviewed here, and their technical challenges, current results, and future prospects summarized. We conclude that it is likely that over the next two decades or so, these experiments can verify or rule out the proposed stochastic modification of quantum theory.

id: 1204.4348
title: Exact solution for a non-Markovian dissipative quantum dynamics
authors: Luca Ferialdi, Angelo Bassi
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 170404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4348
abstract: We provide the exact analytic solution of the stochastic Schr\"odinger equation describing an harmonic oscillator interacting with a non-Markovian and dissipative environment. This result represents an arrival point in the study of non-Markovian dynamics via stochastic differential equations. It is also one of the few exactly solvable models, for infinite dimensional systems. We compute the Green's function; in the case of a free particle, and with an exponentially correlated noise, we discuss the evolution of Gaussian wave functions.

id: 1204.4349
title: Correlations of decay times of entangled composite unstable systems
authors: Thomas Durt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4349
abstract: The role played by Time in the quantum theory is still mysterious by many aspects. In particular it is not clear today whether the distribution of decay times of unstable particles could be described by a Time Operator. As we shall discuss, different approaches to this problem (one could say interpretations) can be found in the literature on the subject. As we shall show, it is possible to conceive crucial experiments aimed at distinguishing the different approaches, by measuring with accuracy the statistical distribution of decay times of entangled particles. Such experiments can be realized in principle with entangled kaon pairs.

id: 1204.4351
title: Cavity optomechanics with cold atoms
authors: Dan M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 43 page review paper. This manuscript will appear as a chapter in the forthcoming book entitled "Cavity optomechanics", edited by M. Aspelmeyer, T. Kippenberg, and F. Marquardt, to be published by Springer. Comments on this review are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4351
abstract: The mechanical influence on objects due to their interaction with light has been a central topic in atomic physics for decades. Thus, one finds that many concepts developed to describe cavity optomechanical systems with solid-state mechanical oscillators have also been developed in parallel in relation to cold atomic physics. I describe several of these ideas from atomic physics, including optical methods for detecting quantum states of single cold atoms and atomic ensembles, motional effects within single-atom cavity quantum electrodynamics, and collective optical effects such as superradiant Rayleigh scattering and cavity cooling of atomic ensembles. I present several experimental realizations of cavity optomechanics in which an atomic ensemble serves as the mechanical element. These are divided between systems driven either by sending light onto the cavity input mirrors ("cavity pumped"), or by sending light onto the atomic ensemble ("side pumped"). The cavity-pumped systems clearly exhibit the key phenomena of cavity optomechanical systems, including cavity-aided position sensing, coherent back action effects such as the optical spring and cavity cooling, and optomechanical bistability; several of these effects have been detected not only for linear but also for quadratic optomechanical coupling. The extreme isolation of the atomic ensemble from mechanical disturbances, and its strong polarizability near the atomic resonance frequency, allow these optomechanical systems to be highly sensitive to quantum radiation pressure fluctuations. I describe several ways in which these fluctuations are observed experimentally. I conclude by considering the side-pumped cavity experiments in terms of cavity optomechanics, complementing recent treatments of these systems in terms of condensed-matter physics concepts such as quantum phase transitions and supersolidity.

id: 1204.4490
title: Manipulation of two-photon fluorescence spectra of chromophore aggregates with entangled photons: A simulation study
authors: Frank Schlawin, Konstantin Dorfman, Benjamin P. Fingerhut, Shaul Mukamel
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023851 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4490
abstract: The non-classical spectral and temporal features of entangled photons offer new possibilities to investigate the interactions of excitons in photosynthetic complexes, and to target the excitation of specific states. Simulations of fluorescence in the bacterial reaction center induced by entangled light demonstrate a selectivity of double-exciton states which is not possible using classical stochastic light with the same power spectrum.

id: 1204.4570
title: Commuting quantum circuits: efficient classical simulations versus hardness results
authors: Xiaotong Ni, Maarten Van den Nest
comments: 19 pages
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 13, No. 1-2 (2013) 0054-0072
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4570
abstract: The study of quantum circuits composed of commuting gates is particularly useful to understand the delicate boundary between quantum and classical computation. Indeed, while being a restricted class, commuting circuits exhibit genuine quantum effects such as entanglement. In this paper we show that the computational power of commuting circuits exhibits a surprisingly rich structure. First we show that every 2-local commuting circuit acting on d-level systems and followed by single-qudit measurements can be efficiently simulated classically with high accuracy. In contrast, we prove that such strong simulations are hard for 3-local circuits. Using sampling methods we further show that all commuting circuits composed of exponentiated Pauli operators e^{i\theta P} can be simulated efficiently classically when followed by single-qubit measurements. Finally, we show that commuting circuits can efficiently simulate certain non-commutative processes, related in particular to constant-depth quantum circuits. This gives evidence that the power of commuting circuits goes beyond classical computation.

id: 1204.4573
title: Improved protocols of secure quantum communication using W states
authors: Chitra Shukla, Anindita Banerjee, Anirban Pathak
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4573
abstract: Recently, Hwang et al. [Eur. Phys. J. D. 61, 785 (2011)] and Yuan et al. [Int. J. Theo. Phys. 50, 2403 (2011)] have proposed two efficient protocols of secure quantum communication using 3-qubit and 4-qubit symmetric W state respectively. These two dense coding based protocols are generalized and their efficiencies are considerably improved. Simple bounds on the qubit efficiency of deterministic secure quantum communication (DSQC) and quantum secure direct communication (QSDC) protocols are obtained and it is shown that dense coding is not essential for designing of maximally efficient DSQC and QSDC protocols. This fact is used to design maximally efficient protocols of DSQC and QSDC using 3-qubit and 4-qubit W states.

id: 1204.4587
title: Cryptanalysis of the efficient two-party quantum private comparison protocol with decoy photons and two-photon entanglement
authors: Zhiwei Sun, Dongyang Long
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4587
abstract: We analyze the security of the efficient two-party quantum private comparison protocol with decoy photons and two-photon entanglement. It is shown that the compromised third party (TP) can obtain the final comparison result without introducing any detectable errors in the standard semi-honest model. The attack strategy is discussed in detail and an improvement of this protocol is demonstrated. The idea of our attack might be instructive for the cryptanalysis of quantum cryptographic schemes.

id: 1204.4592
title: A note on the Pauli problem in light of approximate joint measurements
authors: Jussi Schultz
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376 (2012) 2372-2376
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4592
abstract: We show that there exist informationally incomplete phase space observables such that the Cartesian margins are informationally equivalent with position and momentum. This shows that it is possible to reconstruct the position and momentum distributions of a quantum system from the statistics of a single observable, and thus a single measurement, even though the state of the system is not uniquely determined by the statistics.

id: 1204.4596
title: New bounds on the classical and quantum communication complexity of some graph properties
authors: Gabor Ivanyos, Hartmut Klauck, Troy Lee, Miklos Santha, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 12 pages LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4596
abstract: We study the communication complexity of a number of graph properties where the edges of the graph $G$ are distributed between Alice and Bob (i.e., each receives some of the edges as input). Our main results are: * An Omega(n) lower bound on the quantum communication complexity of deciding whether an n-vertex graph G is connected, nearly matching the trivial classical upper bound of O(n log n) bits of communication. * A deterministic upper bound of O(n^{3/2}log n) bits for deciding if a bipartite graph contains a perfect matching, and a quantum lower bound of Omega(n) for this problem. * A Theta(n^2) bound for the randomized communication complexity of deciding if a graph has an Eulerian tour, and a Theta(n^{3/2}) bound for the quantum communication complexity of this problem. The first two quantum lower bounds are obtained by exhibiting a reduction from the n-bit Inner Product problem to these graph problems, which solves an open question of Babai, Frankl and Simon. The third quantum lower bound comes from recent results about the quantum communication complexity of composed functions. We also obtain essentially tight bounds for the quantum communication complexity of a few other problems, such as deciding if G is triangle-free, or if G is bipartite, as well as computing the determinant of a distributed matrix.

id: 1204.4604
title: Master equation approach to optomechanics with arbitrary dielectrics
authors: Anika C. Pflanzer, Oriol Romero-Isart, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013802 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4604
abstract: We present a master equation describing the interaction of light with dielectric objects of arbitrary sizes and shapes. The quantum motion of the object, the quantum nature of light, as well as scattering processes to all orders in perturbation theory are taken into account. This formalism extends the standard master equation approach to the case where interactions among different modes of the environment are considered. It yields a genuine quantum description, including a renormalization of the couplings and decoherence terms. We apply this approach to analyze cavity cooling of the center-of-mass mode of large spheres. Furthermore, we derive an expression for the steady-state phonon numbers without relying on resolved-sideband or bad-cavity approximations.

id: 1204.4619
title: Fooling One-Sided Quantum Protocols
authors: Hartmut Klauck, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 10 pages LaTeX. Version: corrected an error in Section 2, slightly weakening the result
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4619
abstract: We use the venerable "fooling set" method to prove new lower bounds on the quantum communication complexity of various functions. Let f:X x Y-->{0,1} be a Boolean function, fool^1(f) its maximal fooling set size among 1-inputs, Q_1^*(f) its one-sided error quantum communication complexity with prior entanglement, and NQ(f) its nondeterministic quantum communication complexity (without prior entanglement; this model is trivial with shared randomness or entanglement). Our main results are the following, where logs are to base 2: * If the maximal fooling set is "upper triangular" (which is for instance the case for the equality, disjointness, and greater-than functions), then we have Q_1^*(f)>=(1/2)log fool^1(f) - 1/2, which is essentially optimal by superdense coding. No super-constant lower bound for equality seems to follow from earlier techniques. * For all f we have Q_1^*(f)>=(1/4)log fool^1(f) - 1/2, which is optimal up to a factor of 2. * NQ(f)>=log \fool^1(f)/2 + 1. We do not know if the factor 1/2 is needed in this result, but it cannot be replaced by 1: we give an example where NQ(f)~0.613 log fool^1(f).

id: 1204.4622
title: Quantum Nonlocal Boxes Exhibit Stronger Distillability
authors: Peter H?yer, Jibran Rashid
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A, Vol. 28, No. 17 (2013) 1330012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4622
abstract: The hypothetical nonlocal box (\textsf{NLB}) proposed by Popescu and Rohrlich allows two spatially separated parties, Alice and Bob, to exhibit stronger than quantum correlations. If the generated correlations are weak, they can sometimes be distilled into a stronger correlation by repeated applications of the \textsf{NLB}. Motivated by the limited distillability of \textsf{NLB}s, we initiate here a study of the distillation of correlations for nonlocal boxes that output quantum states rather than classical bits (\textsf{qNLB}s). We propose a new protocol for distillation and show that it asymptotically distills a class of correlated quantum nonlocal boxes to the value $1/2 (3\sqrt{3}+1) \approx 3.098076$, whereas in contrast, the optimal non-adaptive parity protocol for classical nonlocal boxes asymptotically distills only to the value 3.0. We show that our protocol is an optimal non-adaptive protocol for 1, 2 and 3 \textsf{qNLB} copies by constructing a matching dual solution for the associated primal semidefinite program (SDP). We conclude that \textsf{qNLB}s are a stronger resource for nonlocality than \textsf{NLB}s. The main premise that develops from this conclusion is that the \textsf{NLB} model is not the strongest resource to investigate the fundamental principles that limit quantum nonlocality. As such, our work provides strong motivation to reconsider the status quo of the principles that are known to limit nonlocal correlations under the framework of \textsf{qNLB}s rather than \textsf{NLB}s.

id: 1204.4629
title: Character of superposed states under deterministic LOCC
authors: Amit Bhar, Ajoy Sen, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 9 pages, pdflatex, no figure, to appear in the journal Quantum Information Processing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4629
abstract: In this paper we investigate the effect of superposition of states on local conversion of pure bipartite states under deterministic LOCC. We are able to form a bridge between comparable and incomparable classes of states through the linear superposition of states. For example, if we consider two pairs of incomparable states, then their superposition may result into a comparable pair of states. We investigate many such cases and provide some of the results in tabular form. We also investigate the entanglement behavior of such classes of states, specifically their monotone nature. Finally we provide some bounds of different measures of entanglement based on the idea of comparability and incomparability under deterministic LOCC.

id: 1204.4638
title: Two-Photon Airy Disk
authors: Hai-Bo Wang, Xin-Bing Song, De-Qin Xu, Jun Xiong, Xiangdong Zhang, Kaige Wang
comments: 4 pages, 2figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4638
abstract: We report an experimental observation of quantum Airy disk diffraction pattern using an entangled two-photon source. In contrast to the previous quantum lithography experiments where the subwavelength diffraction patterns were observed in the far field limit, we perform the Fraunhofer diffraction experiment with a convex lens. The experimental result shows that the two-photon Airy disk is provided with the super-resolution spot, which surpasses the classical diffraction limit. In particular, the spot size can be well controlled by the focal length, which adapted to optical super-focusing. Our experiment can promote potential application of quantum lithography.

id: 1204.4668
title: Stimulated Emission from a single excited atom in a waveguide
authors: Eden Rephaeli, Shanhui Fan
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters, Vol. 108, Issue. 14, pg. 143602, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4668
abstract: We study stimulated emission from an excited two-level atom coupled to a waveguide containing an incident single-photon pulse. We show that the strong photon correlation, as induced by the atom, plays a very important role in stimulated emission. Additionally, the temporal duration of the incident photon pulse is shown to have a marked effect on stimulated emission and atomic lifetime.

id: 1204.4691
title: Reconstructing Strings from Substrings with Quantum Queries
authors: Richard Cleve, Kazuo Iwama, Fran?ois Le Gall, Harumichi Nishimura, Seiichiro Tani, Junichi Teruyama, Shigeru Yamashita
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4691
abstract: This paper investigates the number of quantum queries made to solve the problem of reconstructing an unknown string from its substrings in a certain query model. More concretely, the goal of the problem is to identify an unknown string $S$ by making queries of the following form: "Is $s$ a substring of $S$?", where $s$ is a query string over the given alphabet. The number of queries required to identify the string $S$ is the query complexity of this problem. First we show a quantum algorithm that exactly identifies the string $S$ with at most $3/4N + o(N)$ queries, where $N$ is the length of $S$. This contrasts sharply with the classical query complexity $N$. Our algorithm uses Skiena and Sundaram's classical algorithm and the Grover search as subroutines. To make them effectively work, we develop another subroutine that finds a string appearing only once in $S$, which may have an independent interest. We also prove two lower bounds. The first one is a general lower bound of $\Omega(\frac{N}{\log^2{N}})$, which means we cannot achieve a query complexity of $O(N^{1-\epsilon})$ for any constant $\epsilon$. The other one claims that if we cannot use queries of length roughly between $\log N$ and $3 \log N$, then we cannot achieve a query complexity of any sublinear function in $N$.

id: 1204.4698
title: Vacuum Faraday effect for electrons
authors: Colin Greenshields, Robert L. Stamps, Sonja Franke-Arnold
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Colin Greenshields et al 2012 New J. Phys. 14 103040
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4698
abstract: The optical Faraday effect describes the rotation of linear polarization upon propagation through a medium in the presence of a longitudinal magnetic field. The effect arises from a different phase delay between the right and left handed polarisation components of the light. In this paper we predict a Faraday effect for a completely different system: electron vortices. Free electron vortex states were recently observed in transmission electron microscopy experiments, and they introduce new degrees of freedom into the probing of matter with electron beams. We associate a rotation of a vortex superposition with the fact that different phases are acquired by oppositely handed vortices propagating in a magnetic field. We show that, in contrast to the optical Faraday effect, the rotation of the electron beam occurs in vacuum and arises from the intrinsic chirality of the constituent vortex states.

id: 1204.4737
title: Optimal control of quantum revival
authors: E. Rasanen, E. J. Heller
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 86, 17 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4737
abstract: Increasing fidelity is the ultimate challenge of quantum information technology. In addition to decoherence and dissipation, fidelity is affected by internal imperfections such as impurities in the system. Here we show that the quality of quantum revival, i.e., periodic recurrence in the time evolution, can be restored almost completely by coupling the distorted system to an external field obtained from quantum optimal control theory. We demonstrate the procedure with wave-packet calculations in both one- and two-dimensional quantum wells, and analyze the required physical characteristics of the control field. Our results generally show that the inherent dynamics of a quantum system can be idealized at an extremely low cost.

id: 1204.4802
title: Tunneling of the 3rd Kind: A Test of the Effective Non-locality of Quantum Field Theory
authors: Simon A. Gardiner, Holger Gies, Joerg Jaeckel, Chris J. Wallace
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Updated to match version published in EPL
journal: Europhys.Lett. 101 (2013) 61001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4802
abstract: Integrating out virtual quantum fluctuations in an originally local quantum field theory results in an effective theory which is non-local. In this Letter we argue that tunneling of the 3rd kind - where particles traverse a barrier by splitting into a pair of virtual particles which recombine only after a finite distance - provides a direct test of this non-locality. We sketch a quantum-optical setup to test this effect, and investigate observable effects in a simple toy model.

id: 1204.4830
title: Geometry of entanglement witnesses parameterized by SO(3) group
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Filip A. Wudarski
comments: 10 pages
journal: Open Sys. Inf. Dyn. 19, 1250020 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4830
abstract: We characterize a set of positive maps in matrix algebra of 4x4 complex matrices. Equivalently, we provide a subset of entanglement witnesses parameterized by the rotation group SO(3). Interestingly, these maps/witnesses define two intersecting convex cones in the 3-dimensional parameter space. The existence of two cones is related to the topological structure of the underlying orthogonal group. We perform detailed analysis of the corresponding geometric structure.

id: 1204.4844
title: Hyperfine-Induced Decay in Triple Quantum Dots
authors: Thaddeus D. Ladd
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 125408 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4844
abstract: We analyze the effects of hyperfine interactions on coherent control experiments in triple quantum dots. By exploiting Hamiltonian symmetries and the SU(3) structure of the triple-dot system under pseudo-exchange and longitudinal hyperfine couplings, we provide analytic formulae for the hyperfine decay of triple-dot Rabi and dephasing experiments.

id: 1204.4851
title: Strategies for choosing path-entangled number states for optimal robust quantum optical metrology in the presence of loss
authors: Kebei Jiang, Chase J. Brignac, Yi Weng, Moochan B. Kim, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4851
abstract: To acquire the best path-entangled photon Fock states for robust quantum optical metrology with parity detection, we calculate phase information from a lossy interferometer by using twin entangled Fock states. We show that (a) when loss is less than 50% twin entangled Fock states with large photon number difference give higher visibility while when loss is higher than 50% the ones with less photon number difference give higher visibility; (b) twin entangled Fock states with large photon number difference give sub-shot-noise limit sensitivity for phase detection in a lossy environment. This result provides a reference on what particular path-entangled Fock states are useful for real world metrology applications.

id: 1204.4856
title: Alternative schemes for measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution
authors: Xiongfeng Ma, Mohsen Razavi
comments: 30 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062319 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4856
abstract: Practical schemes for measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution using phase and path or time encoding are presented. In addition to immunity to existing loopholes in detection systems, our setup employs simple encoding and decoding modules without relying on polarization maintenance or optical switches. Moreover, by employing a modified sifting technique to handle the dead-time limitations in single-photon detectors, our scheme can be run with only two single-photon detectors. With a phase-postselection technique, a decoy-state variant of our scheme is also proposed, whose key generation rate scales linearly with the channel transmittance.

id: 1204.4862
title: General Quantization Rule
authors: F. Maiz
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4862
abstract: A general quantization rule for bound states of the Schrodinger equation is presented. Like fundamental theory of integral, our idea is mainly based on dividing the potential into many pieces, solving the Schr\"odinger equation, and deriving the general quantization rule. For both exactly and non-exactly solvable systems, the energy levels of all the bound states can be easily calculated from the general quantization rule. Using this new general quantization rule, we re-calculate the energy levels for the one-dimensional system, with an infinite square well, with the harmonic oscillator potential, with the Morse Potential, with the symmetric and asymmetric Rosen-Morse potentials, with the first P\"oschl-Teller potential, with the Coulomb Potential, with the V-shape Potential, and the ax^4 potential, and for the three dimensions systems, with the harmonic oscillator potential, with the ordinary Coulomb potential, and for the hydrogen atom.

id: 1204.4872
title: An explicit criterion for existence of the Magnus solution for a coupled spin system under a time-dependent radiofrequency pulse
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: This paper is the corrected version of the original manuscript (the year 2000) and its published paper (Xijia Miao, Phys. Lett. A 271 (2000) 296-302). It has 12 pages and has not any figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4872
abstract: The explicit criterion is derived in detail for the convergence of the Magnus expansion and the existence of the Magnus solution in the interaction picture, i.e., the exponential propagator in the weakly coupled spin (I=1/2) system SnAMX... (n=1,2,3,...) in which only spin group S is subjected to a time-dependent shaped selective radiofrequency pulse. The derivation is built on the same scheme as the Maricq's (J. Chem. Phys. 86 (1987) 5647). It is shown that the criterion depends only upon amplitude of the time-dependent field applied to the system, and the Magnus expansion converges and the Magnus solution exists when the flip angle of a non-negative-amplitude shaped RF pulse or a weak-amplitude shaped pulse is smaller than 2pi. The exponential propagator then can be decomposed into a product of a series of elementary propagators and can be used to determine time evolution of the spin system under the shaped pulse. The linear differential equations to determine the unknown parameters in the Magnus solution are obtained explicitly. An alternative propagator in an expansion form for the Magnus solution is also proposed to describe the time evolution when the criterion is not met.

id: 1204.4887
title: Entanglement swapping with local certification: Application to remote micromechanical resonators
authors: Mehdi Abdi, Stefano Pirandola, Paolo Tombesi, David Vitali
comments: 5+3 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 143601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4887
abstract: We propose a protocol for entanglement swapping which involves tripartite systems. The generation of remote entanglement induced by the Bell measurement can be easily certified by additional local measurements. We illustrate the protocol in the case of continuous variable systems where the certification is effective for an appropriate class of three-mode Gaussian states. We then apply the protocol to optomechanical systems, showing how mechanical entanglement between two remote micromechanical resonators can be generated and certified via local optical measurements.

id: 1204.4898
title: Low Temperature Studies of Charge Dynamics of Nitrogen-Vacancy Defect in Diamond
authors: P. Siyushev, H. Pinto, A. Gali, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 167402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4898
abstract: In this paper, we study the photoinduced switching of the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center between two different charge states - negative (NV-) and neutral (NV0) at liquid helium temperature. The conversion of NV- to NV0 on a single defect is experimentally proven and its rate scales quadratically with power under resonant excitation. In addition, we found that resonant excitation of the neutral NV changes the charge state, recovering its negative configuration. This type of conversion significantly improves spectral stability of NV- defect and allows high fidelity initialization of the spin qubit. A possible mechanism for ionization and recovery of the NV- defect is discussed. This study provides better understanding of the charge dynamics of the NV center, which is relevant for quantum information processing based on NV defect in diamond.

id: 1204.4899
title: Driven optomechanical systems for mechanical entanglement distribution
authors: M. Paternostro, L. Mazzola, Jie Li
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures; accepted for publication in J. Phys. B, Special Issue on "Loss of coherence and memory effects in quantum dynamics", guest Eds. F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, and G. Scholes
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 154010 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4899
abstract: We consider the distribution of entanglement from a multi-mode optical driving source to a network of remote and independent optomechanical systems. By focusing on the tripartite case, we analyse the effects that the features of the optical input states have on the degree and sharing-structure of the distributed, fully mechanical, entanglement. This study, which is conducted looking at the mechanical steady-state, highlights the structure of the entanglement distributed among the nodes and determines the relative efficiency between bipartite and tripartite entanglement transfer. We discuss a few open points, some of which directed towards the bypassing of such limitations.

id: 1204.4926
title: Relating the quantum mechanics of discrete systems to standard canonical quantum mechanics
authors: Gerard 't Hooft
comments: 20 pages (incl. title page), 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4926
abstract: Discrete quantum mechanics is here defined to be a quantum theory of wave functions defined on integers P_i and Q_i, while canonical quantum mechanics is assumed to be based on wave functions on the real numbers, R^n. We study reversible mappings from the position operators q_i and their quantum canonical operators p_i of a canonical theory, onto the discrete, commuting operators Q_i and P_i. In this paper we are particularly interested in harmonic oscillators. In the discrete system, these turn into deterministic models, which is our motivation for this study. We regard the procedure worked out here as a "canonical formalism" for discrete dynamics, and as a stepping stone to handling discrete deterministic systems in a quantum formalism.

id: 1204.4960
title: Operator perturbation theory in the backward Heisenberg picture
authors: Fei Liu, Ding-yang Liu
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4960
abstract: We present a simple operator perturbation theory in the backward Heisenberg picture. Compared with the well-known Heisenberg picture, the revised picture is based on the backward time instead of the forward time. The unique feature of the uncommon picture is that the perturbation expansion becomes very simple and the famous Dyson expansion is not directly involved. Its relationship with the perturbation expansion for the density operator developed by Kubo is also discussed.

id: 1204.5074
title: Adversary Lower Bound for Element Distinctness
authors: Aleksandrs Belovs
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5074
abstract: In this note we construct an explicit optimal (negative-weight) adversary matrix for the element distinctness problem, given that the size of the alphabet is sufficiently large.

id: 1204.5080
title: Tensor network techniques for the computation of dynamical observables in 1D quantum spin systems
authors: Alexander M¨¹ller-Hermes, J. Ignacio Cirac, Mari Carmen Ba?uls
comments: 33 pages, 22 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 075003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5080
abstract: We analyze the recently developed folding algorithm [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 240603 (2009)] to simulate the dynamics of infinite quantum spin chains, and relate its performance to the kind of entanglement produced under the evolution of product states. We benchmark the accomplishments of this technique with respect to alternative strategies using Ising Hamiltonians with transverse and parallel fields, as well as XY models. Additionally, we evaluate its ability to find ground and thermal equilibrium states.

id: 1204.5087
title: The walk-sum method for simulating quantum many-body systems
authors: Pierre-Louis Giscard, Martin Kiffner, Dieter Jaksch
comments: This paper has been withdrawn because of as yet unresolved convergence issues of the method
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5087
abstract: We present the method of walk-sum to study the real-time dynamics of interacting quantum many-body systems. The walk-sum method generates explicit expressions for any desired pieces of an evolution operator U independently of any others. The computational cost for evaluating any such piece at a fixed order grows polynomially with the number of particles. Walk-sum is valid for systems presenting long-range interactions and in any geometry. We illustrate the method by means of two physical systems.

id: 1204.5107
title: Partial order and a $T_0$-topology in a set of finite quantum systems
authors: A. Vourdas
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 122101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5107
abstract: A `whole-part' theory is developed for a set of finite quantum systems $\Sigma (n)$ with variables in ${\mathbb Z}(n)$. The partial order `subsystem' is defined, by embedding various attributes of the system $\Sigma (m)$ (quantum states, density matrices, etc) into their counterparts in the supersystem $\Sigma (n)$ (for $m|n$). The compatibility of these embeddings is studied. The concept of ubiquity is introduced for quantities which fit with this structure. It is shown that various entropic quantities are ubiquitous. The sets of various quantities become $T_0$-topological spaces with the divisor topology, which encapsulates fundamental physical properties. These sets can be converted into directed-complete partial orders (dcpo), by adding `top elements'. The continuity of various maps among these sets is studied.

id: 1204.5144
title: Robustness of non-adiabatic holonomic gates
authors: Markus Johansson, Erik Sj?qvist, L. Mauritz Andersson, Marie Ericsson, Bj?rn Hessmo, Kuldip Singh, D. M. Tong
comments: Several changes; journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062322 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5144
abstract: The robustness to different sources of error of the scheme for non-adiabatic holonomic gates proposed in [New J. Phys. {\bf 14}, 103035 (2012)] is investigated. Open system effects as well as errors in the driving fields are considered. It is found that the gates can be made error resilient by using sufficiently short pulses. The principal limit of how short the pulses can be made is given by the breakdown of the quasi-monochromatic approximation. A comparison with the resilience of adiabatic gates is carried out.

id: 1204.5170
title: Optimal Uncertainty Relations for Extremely Coarse-grained Measurements
authors: ?ukasz Rudnicki, Stephen P. Walborn, Fabricio Toscano
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042115 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5170
abstract: We derive two quantum uncertainty relations for position and momentum coarse-grained measurements. Building on previous results, we first improve the lower bound for uncertainty relations using the Renyi entropy, particularly in the case of coarse-grained measurements. We then sharpen a Heisenberg-like uncertainty relation derived previously in [Europhys. Lett. 97, 38003, (2012)] that uses variances and reduces to the usual one in the case of infinite precision measurements. Our sharpened uncertainty relation is meaningful for any amount of coarse graining. That is, there is always a non-trivial uncertainty relation for coarse-grained measurement of the non-commuting observables, even in the limit of extremely large coarse graining.

id: 1204.5172
title: "Einstein's Dream" - Quantum Mechanics as Theory of Classical Random Fields
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5172
abstract: This is an introductory chapter of the book in progress on quantum foundations and incompleteness of quantum mechanics. Quantum mechanics is represented as statistical mechanics of classical fields.

id: 1204.5209
title: Fundamental Limits of Classical and Quantum Imaging
authors: Carlos A. P¨¦rez-Delgado, Mark E. Pearce, Pieter Kok
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; accepted for Physical Review Letters, with updated title and fixed typos
journal: Physical Review Letters 109, 123601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5209
abstract: Quantum imaging promises increased imaging performance over classical protocols. However, there are a number of aspects of quantum imaging that are not well understood. In particular, it has so far been unknown how to compare classical and quantum imaging procedures. Here, we consider classical and quantum imaging in a single theoretical framework and present general fundamental limits on the resolution and the deposition rate for classical and quantum imaging. The resolution can be estimated from the image itself. We present a utility function that allows us to compare imaging protocols in a wide range of applications.

id: 1204.5227
title: The Possibilist Transactional Interpretation and Relativity
authors: Ruth E. Kastner
comments: Final version with some minor corrections as published in Foundations of Physics. This paper has significant overlap with Chapter 6 of my book on the Transactional Interpretation, forthcoming from Cambridge University Press: this http URL (Additional preview material is available at rekastner.wordpress.com) Comments welcome
journal: Foundations of Physics: Volume 42, Issue 8 (2012), Page 1094-1113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5227
abstract: A recent ontological variant of Cramer's Transactional Interpretation, called "Possibilist Transactional Interpretation" or PTI, is extended to the relativistic domain. The present interpretation clarifies the concept of 'absorption,' which plays a crucial role in TI (and in PTI). In particular, in the relativistic domain, coupling amplitudes between fields are interpreted as amplitudes for the generation of confirmation waves (CW) by a potential absorber in response to offer waves (OW), whereas in the nonrelativistic context CW are taken as generated with certainty. It is pointed out that solving the measurement problem requires venturing into the relativistic domain in which emissions and absorptions take place; nonrelativistic quantum mechanics only applies to quanta considered as 'already in existence' (i.e., 'free quanta'), and therefore cannot fully account for the phenomenon of measurement, in which quanta are tied to sources and sinks.

id: 1204.5228
title: Persistent current in quantum torus knots
authors: Hiroyuki Shima
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 035415 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5228
abstract: I consider the quantum interference of electrons moving along knotted trajectories under external magnetic field. The induced persistent current is formulated in terms of characteristic parameters that classify the torus knot geometry. The current is found to show a periodic oscillation whose period depends strongly both on the knot's class and the field direction. The shift in the oscillation period caused by geometric distortion is also discussed.

id: 1204.5231
title: A pedagogical presentation of a $C^\star$-algebraic approach to quantum tomography
authors: A. Ibort, V.I. Manko, G. Marmo, A. Simoni, F. Ventriglia
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr., 84 (2011) 065006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5231
abstract: It is now well established that quantum tomography provides an alternative picture of quantum mechanics. It is common to introduce tomographic concepts starting with the Schrodinger-Dirac picture of quantum mechanics on Hilbert spaces. In this picture states are a primary concept and observables are derived from them. On the other hand, the Heisenberg picture,which has evolved in the $C^\star-$algebraic approach to quantum mechanics, starts with the algebra of observables and introduce states as a derived concept. The equivalence between these two pictures amounts essentially, to the Gelfand-Naimark-Segal construction. In this construction, the abstract $% C^\star-$algebra is realized as an algebra of operators acting on a constructed Hilbert space. The representation one defines may be reducible or irreducible, but in either case it allows to identify an unitary group associated with the $C^\star-$algebra by means of its invertible elements. In this picture both states and observables are appropriate functions on the group, it follows that also quantum tomograms are strictly related with appropriate functions (positive-type)on the group. In this paper we present, by means of very simple examples, the tomographic description emerging from the set of ideas connected with the $C^\star-$algebra picture of quantum mechanics. In particular, the tomographic probability distributions are introduced for finite and compact groups and an autonomous criterion to recognize a given probability distribution as a tomogram of quantum state is formulated.

id: 1204.5242
title: Quantum Data Fitting
authors: Nathan Wiebe, Daniel Braun, Seth Lloyd
comments: 6 pages, corrected version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 050505 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5242
abstract: We provide a new quantum algorithm that efficiently determines the quality of a least-squares fit over an exponentially large data set by building upon an algorithm for solving systems of linear equations efficiently (Harrow et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 103}, 150502 (2009)). In many cases, our algorithm can also efficiently find a concise function that approximates the data to be fitted and bound the approximation error. In cases where the input data is a pure quantum state, the algorithm can be used to provide an efficient parametric estimation of the quantum state and therefore can be applied as an alternative to full quantum state tomography given a fault tolerant quantum computer.

id: 1204.5256
title: Berry Phase Generation and Measurement in a Single Trapped Ion
authors: D. De Munshi, M. Mukherjee, B. Dutta-Roy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5256
abstract: In this work, we propose a new design of an ion trap which can enable us to generate state specific Berry phase in a single trapped ion. Such a design will enable us to study the physics at the boundary of abelian and non-abelian symmetries and can also have significant impact in quantum computation.

id: 1204.5265
title: State-dependent atomic excitation by multi-photon pulses propagating along two spatial modes
authors: Yimin Wang, Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Valerio Scarani
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023811 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5265
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of a single two-level atom, which interacts with pulses propagating in two spatial-modes (right and left) and frequency-continuum. Using Heisenberg equations of motion, we present the explicit analytical derivations and general formalisms for atomic excitation with two spatial-mode multi-photon pulses in both Fock state and coherent state. Based on those formalisms, we show that perfect atomic excitation by single photon Fock state pulse can only be realized when it is rising-exponentially shaped in the even-mode---a balanced superposition of the two spatial-modes. Single photon from single spatial-mode can only give half of the maximal atomic excitation probability. We also show that the maximum atomic excitation probability with multi-photon pulses in the even-mode is a monotonic function of the average photon number for coherent state, but not for Fock states. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the atomic dynamics can be controlled by the relative phase between the two counter-propagating coherent state pulses incident on the atom, which is not the case with two Fock state pulses.

id: 1204.5283
title: Indecomposable optimal entanglement witnesses in C4 {\otimes} C4
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Filip A. Wudarski
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5283
abstract: We provide two 1-parameter families of indecomposable entanglement witnesses in C4 {\otimes} C4. Following recent paper by Ha and Kye [Phys. Rev. A 84, 024302 (2011)] we show that these EWs are optimal and hence provide the strongest tool in entanglement theory to discriminate between separable and entangled states. As a byproduct we show that these EWs detect quantum entanglement within a family of generalized Horodecki states.

id: 1204.5299
title: Bloch oscillations of quasispin polaritons in a magneto-optically controlled atomic ensemble
authors: Chang Jiang, Jing Lu, Lan Zhou
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 376, 2935 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5299
abstract: We consider the propagation of a quantized polarized light in a magneto-optically manipulated atomic ensemble with a tripod configuration. Polariton formalism is applied when the medium is subjected to a washboard magnetic field under electromagnetically induced transparency. The dark-state polariton with multiple components is achieved. We analyze quantum dynamics of the dark-state polariton by some experiment data from rubidium D1-line. It is found that one component propagates freely, however the wavepacket trajectory of the other component performs Bloch oscillations.

id: 1204.5301
title: Dynamical scattering models in optomechanics: Going beyond the 'coupled cavities' model
authors: Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Peter Domokos
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 095027 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5301
abstract: Recently [A. Xuereb, et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 013602 (2010)], we calculated the radiation field and the optical forces acting on a moving object inside a general one-dimensional configuration of immobile optical elements. In this article we analyse the forces acting on a semi-transparent mirror in the 'membrane-in-the-middle' configuration and compare the results obtained from solving scattering model to those from the coupled cavities model that is often used in cavity optomechanical system. We highlight the departure of this model from the more exact scattering theory when the reflectivity of the moving element drops below about 50%.

id: 1204.5304
title: Revisiting Bohr's principle of complementarity using a quantum device
authors: Jian-Shun Tang, Yu-Long Li, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5304
abstract: Bohr's principle of complementarity lies at the central place of quantum mechanics, according to which the light is chosen to behave as a wave or particles, depending on some exclusive detecting devices. Later, intermediate cases are found, but the total information of the wave-like and particle-like behaviors are limited by some inequalities. One of them is Englert-Greenberger (EG) duality relation. This relation has been demonstrated by many experiments with the classical detecting devices. Here by introducing a quantum detecting device into the experiment, we find the limit of the duality relation is exceeded due to the interference between the photon's wave and particle properties. However, our further results show that this experiment still obey a generalized EG duality relation. The introducing of the quantum device causes the new phenomenon, provides an generalization of the complementarity principle, and opens new insights into our understanding of quantum mechanics.

id: 1204.5322
title: Hierarchies of multi-partite entanglement
authors: Federico Levi, Florian Mintert
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 150402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5322
abstract: We derive hierarchies of separability criteria that identify the different degrees of entanglement ranging from bipartite to genuine multi-partite in mixed quantum states of arbitrary size.

id: 1204.5329
title: Entanglement and Extreme Spin Squeezing for a Fluctuating Number of Indistinguishable Particles
authors: Philipp Hyllus, Luca Pezze, Augusto Smerzi, Geza Toth
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012337 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5329
abstract: We extend the criteria for $k$-particle entanglement from the spin squeezing parameter presented in [A.S. S{\o}rensen and K. M{\o}lmer, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 86}, 4431 (2001)] to systems with a fluctating number of particles. We also discuss how other spin squeezing inequalities can be generalized to this situation. Further, we give an operational meaning to the bounds for cases where the individual particles cannot be addressed. As a by-product, this allows us to show that in spin squeezing experiments with cold gases the particles are typically distinguishable in practise. Our results justify the application of the S{\o}rensen-M{\o}lmer bounds in recent experiments on spin squeezing in Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 1204.5330
title: A high-brightness source of polarization-entangled photons optimized for applications in free space
authors: Fabian Steinlechner, Pavel Trojek, Marc Jofre, Henning Weier, Daniel Perez, Thomas Jennewein, Rupert Ursin, John Rarity, Morgan W. Mitchell, Juan P. Torres, Harald Weinfurter, Valerio Pruneri
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 9, pp. 9640-9649 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5330
abstract: We present a simple but highly efficient source of polarization-entangled photons based on spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) in bulk periodically poled potassium titanyl phosphate crystals (PPKTP) pumped by a 405 nm laser diode. Utilizing one of the highest available nonlinear coefficients in a non-degenerate, collinear type-0 phase-matching configuration, we generate polarization entanglement via the crossed-crystal scheme and detect 0.64 million photon pair events/s/mW, while maintaining an overlap fidelity with the ideal Bell state of 0.98 at a pump power of 0.025 mW.

id: 1204.5353
title: Dynamical aspects of atom interferometry in an optical lattice in proximity of a surface
authors: Sophie Pelisson, Riccardo Messina, Marie-Christine Angonin, Peter Wolf
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86 013614 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5353
abstract: The efficiency of an atomic interferometer in proximity of a surface is discussed. We first study which is the best choice of frequency for a pulse acting on internal atomic transitions in the same well. Then considering the modification of atomic energy levels in vicinity of the surface, we propose the application of two simultaneous Raman lasers and numerically study the associated interference fringes. We show that the efficiency of the interferometric scheme is limited by the existence of a residual phase depending on the atomic path. We propose a symmetric scheme in order to avoid these contributions. We finally show that the suggested modifications make the contrast of the interference fringes close to 1 in any configuration, both close and far from the surface and with one or more initially populated wells.

id: 1204.5439
title: Collapse-revival dynamics and atom-field entanglement in the non-resonant Dicke model
authors: A. Alvermann, L. Bakemeier, H. Fehske
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 043803 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5439
abstract: We consider the dynamics of atomic and field coherent states in the non-resonant Dicke model. At weak coupling an initial product state evolves into a superposition of multiple field coherent states that are correlated with the atomic configuration. This process is accompanied by the buildup and decay of atom-field entanglement and leads to the periodic collapse and revival of Rabi oscillations. We provide a perturbative derivation of the underlying dynamical mechanism that complements the rotating wave approximation at resonance. The identification of two different time scales explains how the dynamical signatures depend on the sign of detuning between the atomic and field frequency, and predicts the generation of either atomic or field cat states in the two opposite cases. We finally discuss the restrictions that the buildup of atom-field entanglement during the collapse of Rabi oscillations imposes on the validity of semi-classical approximations that neglect entanglement.

id: 1204.5450
title: Parametric four-wave mixing toolbox for superconducting resonators
authors: A. V. Sharypov, Xiuhao Deng, Lin Tian
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, accepted version, new simulation and reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 014516 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5450
abstract: We study a superconducting circuit that can act as a toolbox to generate various Bogoliubov-linear and nonlinear quantum operations on the microwave photon modes of superconducting resonators within one single circuit. The quantum operations are generated by exploring dispersive four-wave mixing (FWM) processes involving the resonator modes. Different FWM geometries can be realized by adjusting the circuit parameters and by applying appropriate microwave drivings. We illustrate this scheme using a circuit made of two superconducting qubits that couple with each other. Each qubit couples with one superconducting resonator. We also discuss main quantum errors in this scheme and study the fidelity of the quantum operations by numerical simulation. Our scheme provides a practical approach to realize quantum information protocols on superconducting resonators.

id: 1204.5451
title: Optimal witnesses for three-qubit entanglement from Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger symmetry
authors: Christopher Eltschka, Jens Siewert
comments: 
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 13, 210 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5451
abstract: Recently, a new type of symmetry for three-qubit quantum states was introduced, the so-called Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) symmetry. It includes the operations which leave the three-qubit standard GHZ state unchanged. This symmetry is powerful as it yields families of mixed states that are, on the one hand, complex enough from the physics point of view and, on the other hand, simple enough mathematically so that their properties can be characterized analytically. We show that by using the properties of GHZ-symmetric states it is straightforward to derive optimal witnesses for three-qubit entanglement.

id: 1204.5485
title: Finding low-energy conformations of lattice protein models by quantum annealing
authors: Alejandro Perdomo-Ortiz, Neil Dickson, Marshall Drew-Brook, Geordie Rose, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5485
abstract: Lattice protein folding models are a cornerstone of computational biophysics. Although these models are a coarse grained representation, they provide useful insight into the energy landscape of natural proteins. Finding low-energy three-dimensional structures is an intractable problem even in the simplest model, the Hydrophobic-Polar (HP) model. Exhaustive search of all possible global minima is limited to sequences in the tens of amino acids. Description of protein-like properties are more accurately described by generalized models, such as the one proposed by Miyazawa and Jernigan (MJ), which explicitly take into account the unique interactions among all 20 amino acids. There is theoretical and experimental evidence of the advantage of solving classical optimization problems using quantum annealing over its classical analogue (simulated annealing). In this report, we present a benchmark implementation of quantum annealing for a biophysical problem (six different experiments up to 81 superconducting quantum bits). Although the cases presented here can be solved in a classical computer, we present the first implementation of lattice protein folding on a quantum device under the Miyazawa-Jernigan model. This paves the way towards studying optimization problems in biophysics and statistical mechanics using quantum devices.

id: 1204.5499
title: Revealing interference by continuous variable discordant states
authors: A. Meda, S. Olivares, I. P. Degiovanni, G. Brida, M. Genovese, M. G. A. Paris
comments: published version
journal: Opt. Lett. 38, 3099 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5499
abstract: In general, a pair of uncorrelated Gaussian states mixed in a beam splitter produces a correlated state at the output. However, when the inputs are identical Gaussian states the output state is equal to the input, and no correlations appear, as the interference had not taken place. On the other hand, since physical phenomena do have observable effects, and the beam splitter is there, a question arises on how to reveal the interference between the two beams. We prove theoretically and demonstrate experimentally that this is possible if at least one of the two beams is prepared in a discordant, i.e. Gaussian correlated, state with a third beam. We also apply the same technique to reveal the erasure of polarization information. Our experiments involves thermal states and the results show that Gaussian discordant states, even when they show a positive Glauber P-function, may be useful to achieve specific tasks.

id: 1204.5511
title: Entanglement and genuine entanglement of three qubit GHZ diagonal states
authors: Xiao-yu Chen, Li-zhen Jiang, Ping Yu, Mingzhen Tian
comments: 5 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5511
abstract: We analytically prove the necessary and sufficient criterion for the full separability of three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) diagonal states. The corresponding entanglement is exactly calculable for some GHZ diagonal states and is tractable for the others using the relative entropy of entanglement. We show that the biseparable criterion and the genuine entanglement are determined only by the biggest GHZ diagonal element regardless of all the other smaller diagonal elements. We have completely solved the entanglement problems of three-qubit GHZ diagonal states.

id: 1204.5512
title: Genuine Entanglement of Four Qubit Cluster Diagonal States
authors: Xiao-yu Chen, Ping Yu, Li-zhen Jiang, Mingzhen Tian
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5512
abstract: We reduce the necessary and sufficient biseparable conditions of the four qubit cluster diagonal state to concise forms. Only 4 out of the 15 parameters are proved to be relevant in specifying the genuine entanglement of the state. Using the relative entropy of entanglement as the entanglement measure, we analytically find the genuine entanglement of all the four qubit cluster diagonal states. The formulas of the genuine entanglement are of five kinds, for seven different parameter regions of entanglement.

id: 1204.5516
title: Novel symmetry-broken phase in a driven cavity system in the thermodynamic limit
authors: Tatsuhiko Shirai, Takashi Mori, Seiji Miyashita
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 025501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5516
abstract: We study non-equilibrium stationary states of a cavity system consisting of many atoms interacting with a quantized cavity field mode, under a driving field in a dissipative environment. We derive a quantum master equation which is suitable for treating systems with a strong driving field and a strong atom-photon interaction. We do this by making use of the fact that the mean-field dynamics are exact in the thermodynamic limit thanks to a uniform coupling between atoms and photons. We find ordered states with symmetry-broken components of the photon field and atomic excitation driven by the external field. The mechanism by which these ordered states arise is discussed from the viewpoint of the quantum interference effect.

id: 1204.5530
title: Nonlinear PT-symmetric plaquettes
authors: Kai Li, P. G. Kevrekidis, Boris A. Malomed, Uwe Guenther
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 444021 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5530
abstract: We introduce four basic two-dimensional (2D) plaquette configurations with onsite cubic nonlinearities, which may be used as building blocks for 2D PT -symmetric lattices. For each configuration, we develop a dynamical model and examine its PT symmetry. The corresponding nonlinear modes are analyzed starting from the Hamiltonian limit, with zero value of the gain-loss coefficient. Once the relevant waveforms have been identified (chiefly, in an analytical form), their stability is examined by means of linearization in the vicinity of stationary points. This reveals diverse and, occasionally, fairly complex bifurcations. The evolution of unstable modes is explored by means of direct simulations. In particular, stable localized modes are found in these systems, although the majority of identified solutions is unstable.

id: 1204.5559
title: Using Temporal Entanglement to Perform Thermodynamical Work
authors: Vlatko Vedral
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5559
abstract: Here we investigate the impact of temporal entanglement on a system's ability to perform thermodynamical work. We show that while the quantum version of the Jarzynski equality remains satisfied even in the presence of temporal entanglement, the individual thermodynamical work moments in the expansion of the free energy are, in fact, sensitive to the genuine quantum correlations. Therefore, while individual moments of the amount of thermodynamical work can be larger (or smaller) quantumly than classically, when they are all combined together into the (exponential of) free energy, the total effect vanishes to leave the Jarzynski equality intact. Whether this is a fortuitous coincidence remains to be seen, but it certainly goes towards explaining why the laws of thermodynamics happen to be so robust as to be independent of the underlying micro-physics. We discuss the relationship between this result and thermodynamical witnesses of spatial entanglement as well as explore the subtle connection with the "quantum arrow of time".

id: 1204.5560
title: Superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors: physics and applications
authors: Chandra M. Natarajan, Michael G. Tanner, Robert H. Hadfield
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures, Review article preprint version
journal: Superconductor Science and Technology 25, 063001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5560
abstract: Single-photon detectors based on superconducting nanowires (SSPDs or SNSPDs) have rapidly emerged as a highly promising photon-counting technology for infrared wavelengths. These devices offer high efficiency, low dark counts and excellent timing resolution. In this review, we consider the basic SNSPD operating principle and models of device behaviour. We give an overview of the evolution of SNSPD device design and the improvements in performance which have been achieved. We also evaluate device limitations and noise mechanisms. We survey practical refrigeration technologies and optical coupling schemes for SNSPDs. Finally we summarize promising application areas, ranging from quantum cryptography to remote sensing. Our goal is to capture a detailed snapshot of an emerging superconducting detector technology on the threshold of maturity.

id: 1204.5579
title: Laser Control of Dissipative Two-Exciton Dynamics in Molecular Aggregates
authors: Yun-an Yan, Oliver K¨¹hn
comments: revised version, fig. 8 new
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5579
abstract: There are two types of two-photon transitions in molecular aggregates, that is, non-local excitations of two monomers and local double excitations to some higher excited intra-monomer electronic state. As a consequence of the inter-monomer Coulomb interaction these different excitation states are coupled to each other. Higher excited intra-monomer states are rather short-lived due to efficient internal conversion of electronic into vibrational energy. Combining both processes leads to the annihilation of an electronic excitation state, which is a major loss channel for establishing high excitation densities in molecular aggregates. Applying theoretical pulse optimization techniques to a Frenkel exciton model it is shown that the dynamics of two-exciton states in linear aggregates (dimer to tetramer) can be influenced by ultrafast shaped laser pulses. In particular, it is studied to what extent the decay of the two-exciton population by inter-band transitions can be transiently suppressed. Intra-band dynamics is described by a dissipative hierarchy equation approach, which takes into account strong exciton-vibrational coupling in the non-Markovian regime.

id: 1204.5588
title: Many-particle interference beyond many-boson and many-fermion statistics
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Markus Tiersch, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 093015 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5588
abstract: Identical particles exhibit correlations even in the absence of inter-particle interaction, due to the exchange (anti)symmetry of the many-particle wavefunction. Two fermions obey the Pauli principle and anti-bunch, whereas two bosons favor bunched, doubly occupied states. Here, we show that the collective interference of three or more particles leads to a much more diverse behavior than expected from the boson-fermion dichotomy known from quantum statistical mechanics. The emerging complexity of many-particle interference is tamed by a simple law for the strict suppression of events in the Bell multiport beam splitter. The law shows that counting events are governed by widely species-independent interference, such that bosons and fermions can even exhibit identical interference signatures, while their statistical character remains subordinate. Recent progress in the preparation of tailored many-particle states of bosonic and fermionic atoms promises experimental verification and applications in novel many-particle interferometers.

id: 1204.5589
title: Quantifying the noise of a quantum channel by noise addition
authors: Antonella De Pasquale, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5589
abstract: In this paper we introduce a way to quantify the noise level associated to a given quantum transformation. The key mechanism lying at the heart of the proposal is "noise addition": in other words we compute the amount of extra noise we need to add to the system, through convex combination with a reference noisy map or by reiterative applications of the original map, before the resulting transformation becomes entanglement-breaking. We also introduce the notion of entanglement-breaking channels of order n (i.e. maps which become entanglement-breaking after n iterations), and the associated notion of amendable channels (i.e. maps which can be prevented from becoming entanglement-breaking after iterations by interposing proper quantum transformations). Explicit examples are analyzed in the context of qubit and one-mode Guassian channels.

id: 1204.5606
title: Telegraph signals as a solution to the time dependent Schr?dinger equation
authors: D. Drakova, G. Doyen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5606
abstract: A particle switching between two sides of a symmetric system in interaction with a continuum exhibits a telegraph-like time development without the need of the Born-Bohr principle of reduction on eigenstates of the measuring equipment. The origin of the telegraph signal is a very weak local coupling of the particle to the continuum which is connected with an enormous slow down of the particle motion. The proposed mechanism might serve as a useful simple model for studying decoherence effects due to coupling to the environment.

id: 1204.5627
title: Kinematics and dynamics in noninertial quantum frames of reference
authors: R. M. Angelo, A. D. Ribeiro
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 465306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5627
abstract: From the principle that there is no absolute description of a physical state, we advance the approach according to which one should be able to describe the physics from the perspective of a quantum particle. The kinematics seen from this frame of reference is shown to be rather unconventional. In particular, we discuss several subtleties emerging in the relative formulation of central notions such as vector states, the classical limit, entanglement, uncertainty relations, and the complementary principle. A Hamiltonian formulation is derived as well which correctly encapsulates effects of fictitious forces associated with the accelerated motion of the frame. Our approach shows, therefore, how to formulate nonrelativistic quantum mechanics within noninertial reference frames which can be consistently described by the theory, with no appeal to classical elements.

id: 1204.5699
title: Radiation Reaction: General approach and applications, especially to electrodynamics
authors: R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Contemporary Physics 53(4), 301-313 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5699
abstract: Radiation reaction (but, more generally, fluctuations and dissipation) occurs when a system interacts with a heat bath, a particular case being the interaction of an electron with the radiation field. We have developed a general theory for the case of a quantum particle in a general potential (but, in more detail, an oscillator potential) coupled to an arbitrary heat bath at arbitrary temperature, and in an external time-dependent $c$-number field. The results may be applied to a large variety of problems in physics but we concentrate by showing in detail the application to the blackbody radiation heat bath, giving an exact result for radiation reaction problem which has no unsatisfactory features such as the runaway solutions associated with the Abraham-Lorentz theory. In addition, we show how atomic energy and free energy shifts due to temperature may be calculated. Finally, we give a brief review of applications to Josephson junctions, quantum statistical mechanics, mesoscopic physics, quantum information, noise in gravitational wave detectors, Unruh radiation and the violation of the quantum regression theorem

id: 1204.5708
title: Bell inequality and common causal explanation in algebraic quantum field theory
authors: G¨¢bor Hofer-Szab¨®, P¨¦ter Vecserny¨¦s
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5708
abstract: Bell inequalities, understood as constraints between classical conditional probabilities, can be derived from a set of assumptions representing a common causal explanation of classical correlations. A similar derivation, however, is not known for Bell inequalities in algebraic quantum field theories establishing constraints for the expectation of specific linear combinations of projections in a quantum state. In the paper we address the question as to whether a 'common causal justification' of these non-classical Bell inequalities is possible. We will show that although the classical notion of common causal explanation can readily be generalized for the non-classical case, the Bell inequalities used in quantum theories cannot be derived from these non-classical common causes. Just the opposite is true: for a set of correlations there can be given a non-classical common causal explanation even if they violate the Bell inequalities. This shows that the range of common causal explanations in the non-classical case is wider than that restricted by the Bell inequalities.

id: 1204.5713
title: Entanglement replication in driven-dissipative many body systems
authors: S. Zippilli, M. Paternostro, G. Adesso, F. Illuminati
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. To appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 040503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5713
abstract: We study the dissipative dynamics of two independent arrays of many-body systems, locally driven by a common entangled field. We show that in the steady state the entanglement of the driving field is reproduced in an arbitrarily large series of inter-array entangled pairs over all distances. Local nonclassical driving thus realizes a scale-free entanglement replication and long-distance entanglement distribution mechanism that has immediate bearing on the implementation of quantum communication networks.

id: 1204.5735
title: Efficient and feasible state tomography of quantum many-body systems
authors: M. Ohliger, V. Nesme, J. Eisert
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, minor corrections, discussion added, emphasizing that no single-site addressing is needed at any stage of the scheme when implemented in optical lattice systems
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 015024 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5735
abstract: We present a novel method to perform quantum state tomography for many-particle systems which are particularly suitable for estimating states in lattice systems such as of ultra-cold atoms in optical lattices. We show that the need for measuring a tomographically complete set of observables can be overcome by letting the state evolve under some suitably chosen random circuits followed by the measurement of a single observable. We generalize known results about the approximation of unitary 2-designs, i.e., certain classes of random unitary matrices, by random quantum circuits and connect our findings to the theory of quantum compressed sensing. We show that for ultra-cold atoms in optical lattices established techniques like optical super-lattices, laser speckles, and time-of-flight measurements are sufficient to perform fully certified, assumption-free tomography. Combining our approach with tensor network methods - in particular the theory of matrix-product states - we identify situations where the effort of reconstruction is even constant in the number of lattice sites, allowing in principle to perform tomography on large-scale systems readily available in present experiments.

id: 1204.5757
title: Fermionic Markov Chains
authors: Mark Fannes, Jeroen Wouters
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5757
abstract: We study a quantum process that can be considered as a quantum analogue for the classical Markov process. We specifically construct a version of these processes for free Fermions. For such free Fermionic processes we calculate the entropy density. This can be done either directly using Szeg\"o's theorem for asymptotic densities of functions of Toeplitz matrices, or through an extension of said theorem to rates of functions, which we present in this article.

id: 1204.5758
title: Full-field quantum correlations of spatially entangled photons
authors: V. D. Salakhutdinov, E. R. Eliel, W. L?ffler
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 173604 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5758
abstract: Spatially entangled twin photons allow the study of high-dimensional entanglement, and the Laguerre-Gauss modes are the most commonly used basis to discretize the single photon mode spaces. In this basis, to date only the azimuthal degree of freedom has been investigated experimentally due to its fundamental and experimental simplicity. We show that the full spatial entanglement is indeed accessible experimentally, i.e., we have found practicable radial detection modes with negligible cross correlations. This allows us to demonstrate hybrid azimuthal -- radial quantum correlations in a Hilbert space with more than 100 dimensions per photon.

id: 1204.5769
title: Scaling behavior for a class of quantum phase transitions
authors: Wen-ge Wang, Pinquan Qin, Qian Wang, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, added new data and discussion
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 021124 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5769
abstract: We show that for quantum phase transitions with a single bosonic zero mode at the critical point, like the Dicke model and the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model, metric quantities such as fidelity, that is, the overlap between two ground states corresponding to two values $\lambda_1$ and $\lambda_2$ of the controlling parameter $\lambda$, only depend on the ratio $\eta=(\lambda_1-\lambda_c)/(\lambda_2-\lambda_c)$, where $\lambda=\lambda_c$ at the critical point. Such scaling property is valid also for time-dependent quantities such as the Loschmidt echo, provided time is measured in units of the inverse frequency of the critical mode.

id: 1204.5775
title: A novel method to investigate how the spatial correlation of the pump beam affects the purity of polarization entangled states
authors: Simone Cialdi, Davide Brivio, Andrea Tabacchini, Ali Mohammed Kadhimi, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5775
abstract: We present an innovative method to address the relation between the purity of type-I polarization entangled states and the spatial properties of the pump laser beam. Our all-optical apparatus is based on a spatial light modulator, and it offers unprecedented control on the spatial phase function of the entangled states. In this way, we demonstrate quantitatively the relation between the purity of the generated state and spatial correlation function of the pump beam.

id: 1204.5781
title: Influence of Atmospheric Turbulence on Optical Communications using Orbital Angular Momentum for Encoding
authors: Mehul Malik, Malcolm O'Sullivan, Brandon Rodenburg, Mohammad Mirhosseini, Jonathan Leach, Martin P. J. Lavery, Miles J. Padgett, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express Vol. 20, Issue 12, pp. 13195-13200 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5781
abstract: We describe an experimental implementation of a free-space 11-dimensional communication system using orbital angular momentum (OAM) modes. This system has a maximum measured OAM channel capacity of 2.12 bits/photon. The effects of Kolmogorov thin-phase turbulence on the OAM channel capacity are quantified. We find that increasing the turbulence leads to a degradation of the channel capacity. We are able to mitigate the effects of turbulence by increasing the spacing between detected OAM modes. This study has implications for high-dimensional quantum key distribution (QKD) systems. We describe the sort of QKD system that could be built using our current technology.

id: 1204.5789
title: Engineered 2D Ising interactions on a trapped-ion quantum simulator with hundreds of spins
authors: Joseph W. Britton, Brian C. Sawyer, Adam C. Keith, C.-C. Joseph Wang, James K. Freericks, Hermann Uys, Michael J. Biercuk, John. J. Bollinger
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures; article plus Supplementary Materials
journal: Nature 484, 489-492 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5789
abstract: The presence of long-range quantum spin correlations underlies a variety of physical phenomena in condensed matter systems, potentially including high-temperature superconductivity. However, many properties of exotic strongly correlated spin systems (e.g., spin liquids) have proved difficult to study, in part because calculations involving N-body entanglement become intractable for as few as N~30 particles. Feynman divined that a quantum simulator - a special-purpose "analog" processor built using quantum particles (qubits) - would be inherently adept at such problems. In the context of quantum magnetism, a number of experiments have demonstrated the feasibility of this approach. However, simulations of quantum magnetism allowing controlled, tunable interactions between spins localized on 2D and 3D lattices of more than a few 10's of qubits have yet to be demonstrated, owing in part to the technical challenge of realizing large-scale qubit arrays. Here we demonstrate a variable-range Ising-type spin-spin interaction J_ij on a naturally occurring 2D triangular crystal lattice of hundreds of spin-1/2 particles (9Be+ ions stored in a Penning trap), a computationally relevant scale more than an order of magnitude larger than existing experiments. We show that a spin-dependent optical dipole force can produce an antiferromagnetic interaction J_ij ~ 1/d_ij^a, where a is tunable over 0<a<3; d_ij is the distance between spin pairs. These power-laws correspond physically to infinite-range (a=0), Coulomb-like (a=1), monopole-dipole (a=2) and dipole-dipole (a=3) couplings. Experimentally, we demonstrate excellent agreement with theory for 0.05<a<1.4. This demonstration coupled with the high spin-count, excellent quantum control and low technical complexity of the Penning trap brings within reach simulation of interesting and otherwise computationally intractable problems in quantum magnetism.

id: 1204.5832
title: A simple scheme for quantum networks based on orbital angular momentum states of photons
authors: Zhi-Kun Su, Fa-Qiang Wang, Rui-Bo Jin, Rui-Sheng Liang, Song-Hao Liu
comments: 9 pages, published in Optics Communications, 281, 5063-5066
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5832
abstract: We propose a new quantum network scheme using orbital angular momentum states of photons to route the network and spin angular momentum states to encode the information. A four-user experimental scheme based on this efficient quantum network is analyzed in detail, which is particularly appealing for the free space quantum key distribution. Users can freely exchange quantum keys with each other.

id: 1204.5848
title: Decision at the beam-splitter, or decision at detection, that is the question
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5848
abstract: I argue that nonlocal decision of the outcomes at detection excludes any alternative theory to quantum mechanics: Not all that matters for the results of physical experiments is content in space-time, but all that is in space-time is accessible to observation.

id: 1204.5868
title: Global Quantum discord of multi-qubit states
authors: Jianwei Xu
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. Comments are welcome
journal: Physics Letters A 377 (2013), pp. 238-242
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5868
abstract: Global quantum discord (GQD), proposed by Rulli and Sarandy [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{84}, 042109 (2011)], is a generalization of quantum discord to multipartite states. In this paper, we provide an equivalent expression for GQD, and obtain the analytical expressions of GQD for two classes of multi-qubit states. The phenomena of sudden transition and freeze of GQD are also discussed.

id: 1204.5870
title: Multipartite optomechanical entanglement from competing nonlinearities
authors: Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Marco Barbieri, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures; comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013809 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5870
abstract: We investigate the nature of the three-mode interaction inside an optomechanically-active microtoroid with a sizeable chi^(2) coefficient. Experimental techniques are quickly advancing to the point where structures with the necessary properties can be made, and we argue that these provide a natural setting in which to observe rich dynamics leading, for instance, to genuine tripartite steady-state entanglement. We also show that this approach lends itself to a full characterisation of the three-mode state of the system.

id: 1204.5882
title: High Performance Error Correction for Quantum Key Distribution using Polar Codes
authors: Paul Jouguet, S¨¦bastien Kunz-Jacques
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, 3 tables
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 14, No. 3&4, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5882
abstract: We study the use of polar codes for both discrete and continuous variables Quantum Key Distribution (QKD). Although very large blocks must be used to obtain the efficiency required by quantum key distribution, and especially continuous variables quantum key distribution, their implementation on generic x86 CPUs is practical. Thanks to recursive decoding, they exhibit excellent decoding speed, much higher than large, irregular Low Density Parity Check (LDPC) codes implemented on similar hardware, and competitive with implementations of the same codes on high-end Graphic Processing Units (GPUs).

id: 1204.5884
title: Unicity Distance of Quantum Encryption Protocols
authors: Chong Xiang, Li Yang
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5884
abstract: Shannon presented the concept `unicity distance' for describing the security of secret key encryption protocols against various ciphertext-only attacks. We develop this important concept of cryptanalysis into the quantum context, and find that there exist quantum encryption protocols reusing a short key have infinite unicity distance.

id: 1204.5889
title: Robust non-Markovianity in ultracold gases
authors: Pinja Haikka, Suzanne McEndoo, Gabriele De Chiara, Massimo Palma, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: Submitted to FQMT11 topical issue of the Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5889
abstract: We study the effect of thermal fluctuations on a probe qubit interacting with a Bose-Einstein condensed (BEC) reservoir. The zero-temperature case was studied in [Haikka P et al 2011 Phys. Rev. A 84 031602], where we proposed a method to probe the effects of dimensionality and scattering length of a BEC based on its behavior as an environment. Here we show that the sensitivity of the probe qubit is remarkably robust against thermal noise. We give an intuitive explanation for the thermal resilience, showing that it is due to the unique choice of the probe qubit architecture of our model.

id: 1204.5890
title: Influence of detector motion on discrimination between photon polarizations
authors: Tao Zhou, Jingxin Cui, Ye Cao
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, accepted by Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing 12, 747 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5890
abstract: We investigate the discrimination between photon polarizations when measured by moving detectors. Both unambiguous and minimum-error discriminations are considered, and we analyze the the optimal successful (correct) probability as a function of the apparatus' velocity. The Holevo bound for polarization discrimination is also discussed and explicit calculation shows that the Holevo bound and the optimal successful (correct) probability for unambiguous (minimum-error) discrimination simultaneously increase or decrease.

id: 1204.5913
title: Computational Perspectives on Bell Inequalities and Many-body Quantum Correlations
authors: Matty J. Hoban
comments: PhD thesis: 169 pages, 3 figures, and hopefully is of use to someone
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5913
abstract: The predictions of quantum mechanics cannot be resolved with a completely classical view of the world. In particular, the statistics of space-like separated measurements on entangled quantum systems violate a Bell inequality. We put forward a computational perspective on a broad class of Bell tests that study correlators, or the statistics of joint measurement outcomes. We associate particular maps, or functions to particular theories. The violation of a Bell inequality then implies the ability to perform some functions, or computations that classical, or more generally, local hidden variable (LHV) theories cannot.

id: 1204.5931
title: Coherent control of artificial molecules using an Aharonov-Bohm magnetic flux
authors: Matisse Wei-Yuan Tu, Wei-Min Zhang, Franco Nori
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 195403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5931
abstract: Bonding and anti-bonding states of artificial molecules have been realized in experiments by directly coupling two quantum dots. Without a direct coupling between two nearby quantum dots, here we show that a continuous crossover, from symmetric to anti-symmetric molecular state, can be achieved by changing the flux through a double quantum dot Aharonov-Bohm (AB) interferometer. We explicitly present the flux-dependent real-time processes of molecular-state formation. In contrast to the transport current, which has a $2\pi$ period, the quantum state of the DQD molecule has a $4\pi$ period in the AB flux.

id: 1204.5936
title: Maximum-likelihood coherent-state quantum process tomography
authors: Aamir Anis, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 105021 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5936
abstract: Coherent-state quantum process tomography (csQPT) is a method of completely characterizing a quantum-optical "black box" by probing it with coherent states and performing homodyne measurements on the output [M. Lobino et al, Science 322, 563 (2008)]. We present a technique for csQPT that is fully based on statistical inference, specifically, quantum expectation-maximization. The method relies on the Jamiolkowski isomorphism and iteratively reconstructs the process tensor in the Fock basis directly from the experimental data. This approach permits incorporation of a priori constraints into the reconstruction procedure, thereby guaranteeing that the resulting process tensor is physically consistent. Furthermore, our method is easier to implement and requires a narrower range of coherent states than its predecessors. We test its feasibility using simulations on several experimentally relevant processes.

id: 1204.5937
title: Periodicity and perfect state transfer in quantum walks on variants of cycles
authors: K. Barr, T. Proctor, D. Allen, V. Kendon
comments: v3, 27 pages. Substantial revisions with new material added. References fixed
journal: Quantum Information & Computation (Rinton Press) Vol. 14, No. 5&6, pp 417-438 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5937
abstract: We systematically investigated perfect state transfer between antipodal nodes of discrete time quantum walks on variants of the cycles C_4, C_6 and C_8 for three choices of coin operator. Perfect state transfer was found, in general, to be very rare, only being preserved for a very small number of ways of modifying the cycles. We observed that some of our useful modifications of C_4 could be generalised to an arbitrary number of nodes, and present three families of graphs which admit quantum walks with interesting dynamics either in the continuous time walk, or in the discrete time walk for appropriate selections of coin and initial conditions. These dynamics are either periodicity, perfect state transfer, or very high fidelity state transfer. These families are modifications of families known not to exhibit periodicity or perfect state transfer in general. The robustness of the dynamics is tested by varying the initial state, interpolating between structures and by adding decoherence.

id: 1204.5961
title: Beable-Guided Quantum Theories: Generalising Quantum Probability Laws
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022105 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5961
abstract: We introduce the idea of a {\it beable-guided quantum theory}. Beable-guided quantum theories (BGQT) are generalisations of quantum theory, inspired by Bell's concept of beables. They modify the quantum probabilities for some specified set of fundamental events, histories, or other elements of quasiclassical reality by probability laws that depend on the realised configuration of beables. For example, they may define an additional probability weight factor for a beable configuration, independent of the quantum dynamics. BGQT can be fitted to observational data to provide foils against which to compare explanations based on standard quantum theory. For example, a BGQT could, in principle, characterise the effects attributed to dark energy or dark matter, or any other deviation from the predictions of standard quantum dynamics, without introducing extra fields or a cosmological constant. The complexity of the beable-guided theory would then parametrise how far we are from a standard quantum explanation. Less conservatively, we give reasons for taking suitably simple beable-guided quantum theories as serious phenomenological theories in their own right. Among these are that cosmological models defined by BGQT might in fact fit the empirical data better than any standard quantum explanation, and that BGQT suggest potentially interesting non-standard ways of coupling quantum matter to gravity.

id: 1204.5989
title: Crypto-unitary forms of quantum evolution operators
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 15 pp
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 52 (2013) 2038 - 2045
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5989
abstract: For the description of quantum evolution, the use of a manifestly time-dependent quantum Hamiltonian $\mathfrak{h}(t) =\mathfrak{h}^\dagger(t)$ is shown equivalent to the work with its simplified, time-independent alternative $G\neq G^\dagger$. A tradeoff analysis is performed recommending the latter option. The physical unitarity requirement is shown fulfilled in a suitable ad hoc representation of Hilbert space.

id: 1204.6021
title: Bose-Hubbard model for universal quantum walk-based computation
authors: Michael S. Underwood, David L. Feder
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures. To appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052314 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6021
abstract: We present a novel scheme for universal quantum computation based on spinless interacting bosonic quantum walkers on a piecewise-constant graph, described by the two-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model. Arbitrary X and Z rotations are constructed, as well as an entangling two-qubit CPHASE gate and a SWAP gate. Quantum information is encoded in the positions of the walkers on the graph, as in previous quantum walk-based proposals for universal quantum computation, though in contrast to prior schemes this proposal requires a number of vertices only linear in the number of encoded qubits. It allows single-qubit measurements to be performed in a straightforward manner with localized operators, and can make use of existing quantum error correcting codes either directly within the universal gate set provided, or by extending the lattice to a third dimension. We present an intuitive example of a logical encoding to implement the seven-qubit Steane code. Finally, an implementation in terms of ultracold atoms in optical lattices is suggested.

id: 1204.6042
title: Quantum discord as a resource in quantum communication
authors: Vaibhav Madhok, Animesh Datta
comments: 9 pages, no figures. Published version
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B, 27, 1245041, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6042
abstract: As quantum technologies move from the issues of principle to those of practice, it is important to understand the limitations on attaining tangible quantum advantages. In the realm of quantum communication, quantum discord captures the damaging effects of a decoherent environment. This is a consequence of quantum discord quantifying the advantage of quantum coherence in quantum communication. This establishes quantum discord as a resource for quantum communication processes. We discuss this progress, which derives a quantitative relation between the yield of the fully quantum Slepian-Wolf protocol in the presence of noise and the quantum discord of the state involved. The significance of quantum discord in noisy versions of teleportation, super-dense coding, entanglement distillation and quantum state merging are discussed. These results lead to open questions regarding the tradeoff between quantum entanglement and discord in choosing the optimal quantum states for attaining palpable quantum advantages in noisy quantum protocols.

id: 1204.6052
title: A Necessary and Sufficient Condition for Entanglement Witness
authors: Fabio Masillo
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6052
abstract: In this paper we introduce a criterion for the characterization of Entanglement Witness for multipartite quantum systems. Our approach is based on the characterization of the "tangent space" to the set of pure product states.

id: 1204.6094
title: Quantum State Tomography Using Successive Measurements
authors: Amir Kalev, Pier A. Mello
comments: 12 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6094
abstract: We describe a quantum state tomography scheme which is applicable to a system described in a Hilbert space of arbitrary finite dimensionality and is constructed from sequences of two measurements. The scheme consists of measuring the various pairs of projectors onto two bases --which have no mutually orthogonal vectors--, the two members of each pair being measured in succession. We show that this scheme implies measuring the joint quasi-probability of any pair of non-degenerate observables having the two bases as their respective eigenbases. The model Hamiltonian underlying the scheme makes use of two meters initially prepared in an arbitrary given quantum state, following the ideas that were introduced by von Neumann in his theory of measurement.

id: 1204.6114
title: Phase Structure of Repulsive Hard-Core Bosons in a Stacked Triangular Lattice
authors: H. Ozawa, I. Ichinose
comments: 4+epsilon pages, 11 figures, Version to be published in Phys.Rev.A
journal: Phys Rev. A 86, 015601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6114
abstract: In this paper, we study phase structure of a system of hard-core bosons with a nearest-neighbor (NN) repulsive interaction in a stacked triangular lattice. Hamiltonian of the system contains two parameters one of which is the hopping amplitude $t$ between NN sites and the other is the NN repulsion $V$. We investigate the system by means of the Monte-Carlo simulations and clarify the low and high-temperature phase diagrams. There exist solid states with density of boson $\rho={1 \over 3}$ and ${2\over 3}$, superfluid, supersolid and phase-separated state. The result is compared with the phase diagram of the two-dimensional system in a triangular lattice at vanishing temperature.

id: 1204.6124
title: Quantum correlations of Two-Qubit XXZ Heisenberg Chain with Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction coupled to bath spin as non-Markovian environment
authors: M. Mahdian, M. Bagherpour Jeddi
comments: 26 pages,10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6124
abstract: We consider the quantum correlations (entanglement and quantum discord) dynamics of two coupled spin qubits with Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction influenced by a locally external magnetic field along $z$-direction and coupled to bath spin-1/2 particles as independent non-Markovian environment. We find that with increasing $D_{z}$ and decreasing $J_{z}$, the value of entanglement and quantum discord increase for both antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic materials. Not that, this growth is more for the ferromagnetic materials. In addition, we perceive that entanglement and quantum discord decrease with increased temperature and increased coupling constants between reduced system and bath. But, strong quantum correlations within the spins of bath reduce decoherence effects. We discuss about type of the constituent material of the central spins that it can speedup the quantum information processing and as a result, we perceive that one can improve and control the quantum information processing with correct selection of the properties of the reduced system ($J$, $J_{z}$, $D_{z}$).

id: 1204.6126
title: 2*2 random matrix ensembles with reduced symmetry: From Hermitian to PT-symmetric matrices
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Qing-hai Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6126
abstract: A possibly fruitful extension of conventional random matrix ensembles is proposed by imposing symmetry constraints on conventional Hermitian matrices or parity-time- (PT-) symmetric matrices. To illustrate the main idea, we first study 2*2 complex Hermitian matrix ensembles with O(2) invariant constraints, yielding novel level-spacing statistics such as singular distributions, half-Gaussian distribution, distributions interpolating between GOE (Gaussian Orthogonal Ensemble) distribution and half Gaussian distributions, as well as gapped-GOE distribution. Such a symmetry-reduction strategy is then used to explore 2*2 PT-symmetric matrix ensembles with real eigenvalues. In particular, PT-symmetric random matrix ensembles with U(2) invariance can be constructed, with the conventional complex Hermitian random matrix ensemble being a special case. In two examples of PT-symmetric random matrix ensembles, the level-spacing distributions are found to be the standard GUE (Gaussian Unitary Ensemble) statistics or "truncated-GUE" statistics.

id: 1204.6141
title: Amplification of non-Markovian decay due to bound state absorption into continuum
authors: Savannah Garmon, Tomio Petrosky, Lena Simine, Dvira Segal
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 61, 261 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6141
abstract: It is known that quantum systems yield non-exponential (power law) decay on long time scales, associated with continuum threshold effects contributing to the survival probability for a prepared initial state. For an open quantum system consisting of a discrete state coupled to continuum, we study the case in which a discrete bound state of the full Hamiltonian approaches the energy continuum as the system parameters are varied. We find in this case that at least two regions exist yielding qualitatively different power law decay behaviors; we term these the long time `near zone' and long time `far zone.' In the near zone the survival probability falls off according to a $t^{-1}$ power law, and in the far zone it falls off as $t^{-3}$. We show that the timescale $T_Q$ separating these two regions is inversely related to the gap between the discrete bound state energy and the continuum threshold. In the case that the bound state is absorbed into the continuum and vanishes, then the time scale $T_Q$ diverges and the survival probability follows the $t^{-1}$ power law even on asymptotic scales. Conversely, one could study the case of an anti-bound state approaching the threshold before being ejected from the continuum to form a bound state. Again the $t^{-1}$ power law dominates precisely at the point of ejection.

id: 1204.6149
title: Asymptotic dynamics of coined quantum walks on percolation graphs
authors: B¨¢lint Koll¨¢r, Tam¨¢s Kiss, Jaroslav Novotn?, Igor Jex
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 230505 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6149
abstract: Quantum walks obey unitary dynamics: they form closed quantum systems. The system becomes open if the walk suffers from imperfections represented as missing links on the underlying basic graph structure, described by dynamical percolation. Openness of the system's dynamics creates decoherence, leading to strong mixing. We present a method to analytically solve the asymptotic dynamics of coined, percolated quantum walks for a general graph structure. For the case of a circle and a linear graph we derive the explicit form of the asymptotic states. We find that a rich variety of asymptotic evolutions occur: not only the fully mixed state, but other stationary states; stable periodic and quasiperiodic oscillations can emerge, depending on the coin operator, the initial state, and the topology of the underlying graph.

id: 1204.6153
title: Efficient channeling of fluorescence photons from single quantum dots into guided modes of optical nanofiber
authors: Ramachandrarao Yalla, Fam Le Kien, M. Morinaga, K. Hakuta
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6153
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the efficient channeling of fluorescence photons from single q-dots on optical nanofiber into the guided modes, by measuring the photon-count rates through the guided and radiation modes simultaneously. We obtain the maximum channeling efficiency to be 22.0 (\pm4.8)% at fiber diameter of 350 nm for the emission wavelength of 780 nm. The results may open new possibilities in quantum information technologies for generating single photons into single-mode optical-fibers.

id: 1204.6168
title: An Information--Theoretic Equality Implying the Jarzynski Relation
authors: Vlatko Vedral
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6168
abstract: We derive a general information-theoretic equality for a system undergoing two projective measurements separated by a general temporal evolution. The equality implies the non-negativity of the mutual information between the measurement outcomes of the earlier and later projective measurements. We show that it also contains the Jarzynski relation between the average exponential of the thermodynamical work and the exponential of the difference between the initial and final free energy. Our result elucidates the information-theoretic underpinning of thermodynamics and explains why the Jarzynski relation holds identically both quantumly as well as classically.

id: 1204.6220
title: Quantum Steering and Space-Like Separation
authors: Miguel Navascues, David Perez-Garcia
comments: Some typos corrected. Short discussion about Algebraic Quantum Field Theory. Modified introduction and conclusion
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 160405 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6220
abstract: In non-relativistic quantum mechanics, measurements performed by separate observers are modeled via tensor products. In Algebraic Quantum Field Theory, though, local observables corresponding to space-like separated parties are just required to commute. The problem of determining whether these two definitions of "separation" lead to the same set of bipartite correlations is known in non-locality as Tsirelson's problem. In this article, we prove that the analog of Tsirelson's problem in steering scenarios is false. That is, there exists a steering inequality that can be violated or not depending on how we define space-like separation at the operator level.

id: 1204.6229
title: Finite Geometry Behind the Harvey-Chryssanthacopoulos Four-Qubit Magic Rectangle
authors: Metod Saniga, Michel Planat
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; Version 2 - slightly expanded, accepted in Quantum Information & Computation
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 11 (2012) 1011-1016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6229
abstract: A "magic rectangle" of eleven observables of four qubits, employed by Harvey and Chryssanthacopoulos (2008) to prove the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem in a 16-dimensional Hilbert space, is given a neat finite-geometrical reinterpretation in terms of the structure of the symplectic polar space $W(7, 2)$ of the real four-qubit Pauli group. Each of the four sets of observables of cardinality five represents an elliptic quadric in the three-dimensional projective space of order two (PG$(3, 2)$) it spans, whereas the remaining set of cardinality four corresponds to an affine plane of order two. The four ambient PG$(3, 2)$s of the quadrics intersect pairwise in a line, the resulting six lines meeting in a point. Projecting the whole configuration from this distinguished point (observable) one gets another, complementary "magic rectangle" of the same qualitative structure.

id: 1204.6238
title: Decoherence in Quantum Markov Chains
authors: Raqueline A. M. Santos, Renato Portugal, Marcelo D. Fragoso
comments: 15 pages; corrected equations in sec. 4 and 5; same as published version
journal: Quantum Information Processing, 2014, 13:2, 559-572
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6238
abstract: It is known that under some assumptions the hitting time in quantum Markov chains is quadratically smaller than the hitting time in classical Markov chains. This work extends this result for decoherent quantum Markov chains. The decoherence is introduced using a percolation-like graph model, which allows us to define a decoherent quantum hitting time and to establish a decoherent-intensity range for which the decoherent quantum hitting time is quadratically smaller than the the classical hitting time. The detection problem under decoherence is also solved with quadratic speedup in this range.

id: 1204.6253
title: Visible-to-telecom quantum frequency conversion of light from a single quantum emitter
authors: Sebastian Zaske, Andreas Lenhard, Christian A. Kessler, Jan Kettler, Christian Hepp, Carsten Arend, Roland Albrecht, Wolfgang-Michael Schulz, Michael Jetter, Peter Michler, Christoph Becher
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 147404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6253
abstract: Quantum frequency conversion (QFC), a nonlinear optical process in which the frequency of a quantum light field is altered while conserving its non-classical correlations, was first demonstrated 20 years ago. Meanwhile, it is considered an essential tool for the implementation of quantum repeaters since it allows for interfacing quantum memories with telecom-wavelength photons as quantum information carriers. Here we demonstrate efficient (>30%) QFC of visible single photons (711 nm) emitted by a quantum dot (QD) to a telecom wavelength (1,313 nm). Analysis of the first and second-order coherence before and after wavelength conversion clearly proves that important properties, such as the coherence time and photon antibunching, are fully conserved during the frequency translation process. Our findings underline the great potential of single photon sources on demand in combination with QFC as a promising technique for quantum repeater schemes.

id: 1204.6271
title: Fundamental limitations to information transfer in accelerated frames
authors: Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Dominic Hosler, Miguel Montero
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062307 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6271
abstract: We study communication between an inertial observer and one of two causally-disconnected counter accelerating observers. We will restrict the quantum channel considering inertial-to-accelerated bipartite classical and quantum communication over different sets of Unruh modes (single-rail or dual-rail encoding). We find that the coherent information (and therefore, the amount of entanglement that can be generated via state merging protocol) in this strongly restricted channel presents some interesting monogamy properties between the inertial and only one of the accelerated observers if we take a fixed choice of the Unruh mode used in the channel. The optimization of the controllable parameters is also studied and we find that they deviate from the values usually employed in the literature.

id: 1204.6275
title: Effect of quantum interference on the optical properties of a three-level V-type atomic system beyond the two-photon resonance condition
authors: S. M. Mousavi, L. Safari, M. Mahmoudi, M. Sahrai
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 43, 165501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6275
abstract: The effect of quantum interference on the optical properties of a pumped-probe three-level V-type atomic system is investigated. The probe absorption, dispersion, group index and optical bistability beyond the two-photon resonance condition are discussed. It is found that the optical properties of a medium in the frequency of the probe field, in general, are phase independent. The phase dependence arises from a scattering of the coupling field into the probe field at a frequency which in general differs from the probe field frequency. It is demonstrated that beyond the two-photon resonance condition the phase sensitivity of the medium will disappear.

id: 1204.6308
title: Characterization of addressability by simultaneous randomized benchmarking
authors: Jay M. Gambetta, A. D. Corcoles, S. T. Merkel, B. R. Johnson, John A. Smolin, Jerry M. Chow, Colm A. Ryan, Chad Rigetti, S. Poletto, Thomas A. Ohki, Mark B. Ketchen, M. Steffen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 240504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6308
abstract: The control and handling of errors arising from cross-talk and unwanted interactions in multi-qubit systems is an important issue in quantum information processing architectures. We introduce a benchmarking protocol that provides information about the amount of addressability present in the system and implement it on coupled superconducting qubits. The protocol consists of randomized benchmarking each qubit individually and then simultaneously, and the amount of addressability is related to the difference of the average gate fidelities of those experiments. We present the results on two similar samples with different amounts of cross-talk and unwanted interactions, which agree with predictions based on simple models for the amount of residual coupling.

id: 1204.6314
title: Bohmian trajectories for bipartite entangled states
authors: A. R de Almeida, M. A. de Ponte, W. B. Cardoso, A. T. Avelar, M. H. Y. Moussa, N. G. de Almeida
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6314
abstract: We derive Bohm's trajectories from Bell's beables for arbitrary bipartite systems composed by dissipative noninteracting harmonic oscillators at finite temperature. As an application of our result, we calculate the Bohmian trajectories of particles described by a generalized Werner state, comparing the trajectories when the sate is either separable or entangled. We show that qualitative differences appear in the trajectories for entangled states as compared with those for separable states.

id: 1204.6340
title: Generalized Criterion of Maximally Multi-Qubit Entanglement
authors: Xinwei Zha, Chenzhi Yuan, Yanpeng Zhang
comments: 
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 10 (2013) 045201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6340
abstract: We first present a generalized criterion for maximally entangled states of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 and in theory to arbitrary-number qubits. By this criterion, some known highly entangled multi-qubit states are examined and a new genuine eight-qubit maximally entangle state is obtained. For the 4, 7 and 8 qubits system in which no maximally multi-qubit entangled states (MMES) is thought to exist before, we find that the proved and most suspected MMESes, are not completely mixed in subsystem with a critical-number qubits, below which the subsystems are all completely mixed. We believe that the new criterion and MMES can play important role in quantum information technology, such as the teleportation and dense coding.

id: 1204.6377
title: Dynamical decoupling and dephasing in interacting two-level systems
authors: Simon Gustavsson, Fei Yan, Jonas Bylander, Fumiki Yoshihara, Yasunobu Nakamura, Terry P. Orlando, William D. Oliver
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6377
abstract: We implement dynamical decoupling techniques to mitigate noise and enhance the lifetime of an entangled state that is formed in a superconducting flux qubit coupled to a microscopic two-level system. By rapidly changing the qubit's transition frequency relative to the two-level system, we realize a refocusing pulse that reduces dephasing due to fluctuations in the transition frequencies, thereby improving the coherence time of the entangled state. The coupling coherence is further enhanced when applying multiple refocusing pulses, in agreement with our $1/f$ noise model. The results are applicable to any two-qubit system with transverse coupling, and they highlight the potential of decoupling techniques for improving two-qubit gate fidelities, an essential prerequisite for implementing fault-tolerant quantum computing.

id: 1204.6379
title: Discrete Quantum Control - State Preparation
authors: Jon R. Grice, David A. Meyer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6379
abstract: A discrete-time method for solving problems in optimal quantum control is presented. Controlling the time discretized markovian dynamics of a quantum system can be reduced to a Markov-decision process. We demonstrate this method in this with a class of simple one qubit systems, which are also discretized in space. For the task of state preparation we solve the examples both numerically and analytically with dynamic programming techniques.

id: 1204.6449
title: Generalized Limits for Parameter Sensitivity via Quantum Ziv-Zakai Bound
authors: Yang Gao, Hwang Lee
comments: 8pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 415306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6449
abstract: We study the generalized limit for parameter sensitivity in quantum estimation theory considering the effects of repeated and adaptive measurements. Based on the quantum Ziv-Zakai bound, we derive some lower bounds for parameter sensitivity when the Hamiltonian of system is unbounded and when the adaptive measurements are implemented on the system. We also prove that the parameter sensitivity is bounded by the limit of the minimum detectable parameter. In particular, we examine several known states in quantum phase estimation with non-interacting photons, and show that they can not perform better than Heisenberg limit in a much simpler way with our result.

id: 1204.6475
title: Electromagnetic field fluctuations near a dielectric-vacuum boundary and surface divergences in the ideal conductor limit
authors: Nicola Bartolo, Roberto Passante
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012122 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6475
abstract: We consider the electric and magnetic field fluctuations in the vacuum state in the region external to a half-space filled with a homogeneous non-dissipative dielectric. We discuss an appropriate limit to an ideal metal and concentrate our interest on the renormalized field fluctuations, or equivalently to renormalized electric and magnetic energy densities, in the proximity of the dielectric-vacuum interface. We show that surface divergences of field fluctuations arise at the interface in an appropriate ideal conductor limit, and that our limiting procedure allows to discuss in detail their structure. Field fluctuations close to the surface can be investigated through the retarded Casimir-Polder interaction with an appropriate polarizable body.

id: 1204.6479
title: Spin Squeezing Property of Weighted Graph States
authors: Peng Xue
comments: 12 pages, 15 figures. Some sentences were rewritten
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023812 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6479
abstract: We study the spin squeezing property of weighted graph states, which can be used to improve the sensitivity in interferometry. Decoherence reduces the spin squeezing property but the result remains superior over other reference schemes with GHZ-type maximally entangled states and product states. We study the time evolution of spin squeezing of weighted graph states coupled to different decoherence channels. Based on the analysis, the spin squeezing of the weighted graph states is robust in the presence of decoherence and the decoherence limit in the improvement of the interferometric sensitivity is still achievable.

id: 1204.6495
title: Shape invariance in phase space
authors: Constantin Rasinariu
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures; Typos corrected, references added, reformatted
journal: Fortschritte der Physik, Volume 61, Issue 1, pp. 4-19 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6495
abstract: Shape invariance is a powerful solvability condition, that allows for complete knowledge of the energy spectrum, and eigenfunctions of a system. After a short introduction into the deformation quantization formalism, this paper explores the implications of the supersymmetric quantum mechanics and shape invariance techniques to the phase space formalism. We show that shape invariance induces a new set of relations between the Wigner functions of the system, that allows for their direct calculation, once we know one of them. The simple harmonic oscillator and the Morse potential are solved as examples.

id: 1204.6544
title: Investigation of PT-symmetric Hamiltonian systems from an alternative point of view
authors: Jun-Qing Li, Qian Li, Yan-Gang Miao
comments: 13 pages, no figures; v2: 14 pages, typos corrected, clarifications and references added, this version accepted for publication in Commun. Theor. Phys
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 58 (2012) 497-503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6544
abstract: Two non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Hamiltonian systems are reconsidered by means of the algebraic method which was originally proposed for the pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian systems rather than for the PT-symmetric ones. Compared with the way converting a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian to its Hermitian counterpart, this method has the merit that keeps the Hilbert space of the non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Hamiltonian unchanged. In order to give the positive definite inner product for the PT-symmetric systems, a new operator V, instead of C, can be introduced. The operator V has the similar function to the operator C adopted normally in the PT-symmetric quantum mechanics, however, it can be constructed, as an advantage, directly in terms of Hamiltonians. The spectra of the two non-Hermitian PT-symmetric systems are obtained, which coincide with that given in literature, and in particular, the Hilbert spaces associated with positive definite inner products are worked out.

id: 1204.6557
title: Quantum control with spectral constraints
authors: ?ukasz Pawela, Zbigniew Pucha?a
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Inf. Process., Vol. 13, No. 2 (2014), pp 227-237
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6557
abstract: Various constraints concerning control fields can be imposed in the realistic implementations of quantum control systems. One of the most important is the restriction on the frequency spectrum of acceptable control parameters. It is important to consider the limitations of experimental equipment when trying to find appropriate control parameters. Therefore, in this paper we present a general method of obtaining a piecewise-constant controls, which are robust with respect to spectral constraints. We consider here a Heisenberg spin chain, however the method can be applied to a system with more general interactions. To model experimental restrictions we apply an ideal low-pass filter to numerically obtained control pulses. The usage of the proposed method has negligible impact on the control quality as opposed to the standard approach, which does not take into account spectral limitations.

id: 1204.6572
title: Quantum Stabilizer Codes Embedding Qubits Into Qudits
authors: Carlo Cafaro, Federico Maiolini, Stefano Mancini
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures (improved version); accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A86, 022308 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6572
abstract: We study, by means of the stabilizer formalism, a quantum error correcting code which is alternative to the standard block codes since it embeds a qubit into a qudit. The code exploits the non-commutative geometry of discrete phase space to protect the qubit against both amplitude and phase errors. The performance of such code is evaluated on Weyl channels by means of the entanglement fidelity as function of the error probability. A comparison with standard block codes, like five and seven qubit stabilizer codes, shows its superiority.

id: 1204.6574
title: Simulating Compact Quantum Electrodynamics with ultracold atoms: Probing confinement and nonperturbative effects
authors: Erez Zohar, J. Ignacio Cirac, Benni Reznik
comments: Supplementary material addeed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 125302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6574
abstract: Recently, there has been much interest in simulating quantum field theory effects of matter and gauge fields. In a recent work [Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 275301 (2011)] a method for simulating compact Quantum Electrodynamics (cQED) using Bose-Einstein condensates has been suggested. We suggest an alternative approach, which relies on single atoms in an optical lattice, carrying 2l+1 internal levels, which converges rapidly to cQED as l increases. That enables the simulation of cQED in 2+1 dimensions in both the weak and the strong coupling regimes, hence allowing to probe confinement as well as other nonperturbative effects of the theory. We provide an explicit construction for the case l=1 which is sufficient for simulating the effect of confinement between two external static charges.

id: 1204.6579
title: New tools for investigating positive maps in matrix algebras
authors: Justyna Pytel Zwolak, Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski
comments: 10 pages
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 71, 163 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6579
abstract: We provide a novel tool which may be used to construct new examples of positive maps in matrix algebras (or, equivalently, entanglement witnesses). It turns out that this can be used to prove positivity of several well known maps (such as reduction map, generalized reduction, Robertson map, and many others). Furthermore, we use it to construct a new family of linear maps and prove that they are positive, indecomposable and (nd)optimal.

id: 1204.6596
title: Optimality for indecomposable entanglement witnesses
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: Physical Review A 86, 034301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6596
abstract: We examine various notions related with the optimality for entanglement witnesses arising from Choi type positive linear maps. We found examples of optimal entanglement witnesses which are non-decomposable, but which are not `non-decomposable optimal entanglement witnesses' in the sense of [M. Lewenstein, B. Kraus, J. Cirac, and P. Horodecki, Phys. Rev. A 62, 052310 (2000)]. We suggest to use the term `PPTES witness' and `optimal PPTES witness' in the places of `non-decomposable entanglement witness' and `non-decomposable optimal entanglement witnesses' in order to avoid possible confusion. We also found examples of non-extremal optimal entanglement witnesses which are indecomposable.

id: 1204.6616
title: Scalable fiber integrated source for higher-dimensional path-entangled photonic quNits
authors: Christoph Schaeff, Robert Polster, Radek Lapkiewicz, Robert Fickler, Sven Ramelow, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, to be published in Optics Express Vol. 20, No. 10 (05/07/2012)
journal: Optics Express 20, 16145-16153,2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6616
abstract: Integrated photonic circuits offer the possibility for complex quantum optical experiments in higher-dimensional photonic systems. However, the advantages of integration and scalability can only be fully utilized with the availability of a source for higher-dimensional entangled photons. Here, a novel fiber integrated source for path-entangled photons in the telecom band at 1.55\mum using only standard fiber technology is presented. Due to the special design the source shows good scalability towards higher-dimensional entangled photonic states (quNits), while path entanglement offers direct compatibility with on-chip path encoding. We present an experimental realization of a path-entangled two-qubit source. A very high quality of entanglement is verified by various measurements, i.a. a tomographic state reconstruction is performed leading to a background corrected fidelity of (99.45+-0.06)%. Moreover, we describe an easy method for extending our source to arbitrarily high dimensions.

id: 1204.6639
title: A simple note on the nonlocal structure of the PR-box
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Raffaele Romano
comments: 6 pages, submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6639
abstract: In view of the remarkable interest raised by the introduction of the so called PR-box we analyze its nonlocal features from the point of view of Parameter and Outcome Dependence.

id: 1204.6646
title: Radiative friction on an excited atom moving in vacuum
authors: Wei Guo
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6646
abstract: It is known that, when an excited atom spontaneously emits one photon, two effects are produced. First, the atom's internal and external states are entangled with the states of the emitted photon. Second, the atom receives a momentum transfered from the photon. In this work, the dynamics of such an atom in vacuum is studied. Through a specific calculation, it is demonstrated that these effects cause the atom to experience, on average, a friction force opposite to its initial velocity. Properties of the force are also discussed.

id: 1204.6657
title: Quantum associative memory with improved distributed queries
authors: J.-P. Tchapet Njafa, S. G. Nana Engo, Paul Woafo
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures, submitted to Int J Theor Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6657
abstract: The paper proposes an improved quantum associative algorithm with distributed query based on model proposed by Ezhov et al. We introduce two modifications of the query that optimized data retrieval of correct multi-patterns simultaneously for any rate of the number of the recognition pattern on the total patterns. Simulation results are given.

id: 1204.6664
title: Quantum probabilistic encryption scheme based on conjugate coding
authors: Li Yang, Chong Xiang, Bao Li
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6664
abstract: We present a quantum probabilistic encryption algorithm for a private-key encryption scheme based on conjugate coding of the qubit string. A probabilistic encryption algorithm is generally adopted in public-key encryption protocols. Here we consider the way it increases the unicity distance of both classical and quantum private-key encryption schemes. The security of quantum probabilistic private-key encryption schemes against two kinds of attacks is analyzed. By using the no-signalling postulate, we show that the scheme can resist attack to the key. The scheme's security against plaintext attack is also investigated by considering the information-theoretic indistinguishability of the encryption scheme. Finally, we make a conjecture regarding Breidbart's attack.

id: 1204.6667
title: Entanglement in helium
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Stefano Siccardi, Giuliano Strini
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, added references and discussion
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 67 (2013) 83
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6667
abstract: Using a configuration-interaction variational method, we accurately compute the reduced, single-electron von Neumann entropy for several low-energy, singlet and triplet eigenstates of helium atom. We estimate the amount of electron-electron orbital entanglement for such eigenstates and show that it decays with energy.

id: 1204.6701
title: Weak interference in the high-signal regime
authors: Juan P. Torres, Graciana Puentes, Nathaniel Hermosa, Luis Jose Salazar-Serrano
comments: 7 pages
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 17, pp. 18869-18875 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6701
abstract: Weak amplification is a signal enhancement technique which is used to measure tiny changes that otherwise cannot be determined because of technical limitations. It is based on the existence of a special type of interaction which couples a property of a system, i.e., polarization or which-path information, with a separate degree of freedom, i.e., transverse position or frequency. Unfortunately, the weak amplification process is generally accompanied by severe losses of the detected signal, which limits the applicability of the weak amplification concept. However, we will show here that since the weak measurement concept is essentially an interference phenomena, it should be possible to use the degree of interference to get relevant information about the physical system under study in a more general scenario, where the signal is not severely depleted (high-signal regime). This can widen the range of systems where the weak measurement concept can be applied. In this scenario, which can be called generally weak interference, the idea of weak value does not convey any useful information.

id: 1204.6738
title: In defence of non-ontic accounts of quantum states
authors: Simon Friederich
comments: 35 pages, forthcoming in "Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6738
abstract: The paper discusses objections against non-hidden variable versions of the epistemic conception of quantum states - the view that quantum states do not describe the properties of quantum systems but reflect, in some way to be specified, the epistemic conditions of agents assigning them. In the first half of the paper, the main motivation for the epistemic conception of quantum states is sketched, and a version of it is outlined, which combines ideas from an earlier study of it [Friederich 2011] with elements of Richard Healey's recent pragmatist interpretation of quantum theory [Healey 2012]. In the second half, various objections against epistemic accounts of quantum states are discussed in detail, which are based on criticisms found in the literature. Possible answers by the version outlined here are compared with answers from the quantum Bayesian point of view, which is at present the most discussed version of the epistemic conception of quantum states.

id: 1204.0024
title: A superconducting microwave multivibrator produced by coherent feedback
authors: Joseph Kerckhoff, K. W. Lehnert
comments: 9 double-spaced pages, 5 figures and supplement. To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 153602 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0024
abstract: We investigate a coherent nonlinear feedback circuit constructed from pre-existing superconducting microwave devices. The network exhibits emergent bistable and astable states, and we demonstrate its operation as a latch and the frequency locking of its oscillations. While the network is tedious to model by hand, our observations agree quite well with the semiclassical dynamical model produced by a new software package [N. Tezak et al., arXiv:1111.3081v1] that systematically interpreted an idealized schematic of the system as a quantum optic feedback network.

id: 1204.0113
title: Projective non-Abelian Statistics of Dislocation Defects in a Z_N Rotor Model
authors: Yi-Zhuang You, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 4 pages + refs, 4 figures. RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 161107(R) (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0113
abstract: Non-Abelian statistics is a phenomenon of topologically protected non-Abelian Berry phases as we exchange quasiparticle excitations. In this paper, we construct a Z_N rotor model that realizes a self-dual Z_N Abelian gauge theory. We find that lattice dislocation defects in the model produce topologically protected degeneracy. Even though dislocations are not quasiparticle excitations, they resemble non-Abelian anyons with quantum dimension sqrt(N). Exchanging dislocations can produces topologically protected projective non-Abelian Berry phases. The dislocations, as projective non-Abelian anyons can be viewed as a generalization of the Majorana zero modes.

id: 1204.0158
title: The Impact of Small-Angle Scattering on Ballistic Transport in Quantum Dots
authors: A. M. See, I. Pilgrim, B. C. Scannell, R. D. Montgomery, O. Klochan, A. M. Burke, M. Aagesen, P. E. Lindelof, I. Farrer, D. A. Ritchie, R. P. Taylor, A. R. Hamilton, A. P. Micolich
comments: In press for Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Physical Review Letters 108, 196807 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0158
abstract: Disorder increasingly affects performance as electronic devices are reduced in size. The ionized dopants used to populate a device with electrons are particularly problematic, leading to unpredictable changes in the behavior of devices such as quantum dots each time they are cooled for use. We show that a quantum dot can be used as a highly sensitive probe of changes in disorder potential, and that by removing the ionized dopants and populating the dot electrostatically, its electronic properties become reproducible with high fidelity after thermal cycling to room temperature. Our work demonstrates that the disorder potential has a significant, perhaps even dominant, influence on the electron dynamics, with important implications for `ballistic' transport in quantum dots.

id: 1204.0229
title: Accurate calculation of the eigenvalues of a new simple class of superpotentials in SUSY quantum mechanics
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0229
abstract: We obtain accurate eigenvalues for two recently derived SUSY partner Hamiltonians. We improve the Rayleigh-Ritz variational method proposed by the authors and show how to apply the Riccati-Pad\'{e} method to those particular partner potentials.

id: 1204.0327
title: The analogy between optical beam shifts and quantum weak measurements
authors: Mark R Dennis, J?rg B G?tte
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures. IoP style
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 073013 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0327
abstract: We describe how the notion of optical beam shifts (including the spatial and angular Goos-H\"anchen shift and Imbert-Federov shift) can be understood as a classical analogue of a quantum measurement of the polarization state of a paraxial beam by its transverse amplitude distribution. Under this scheme, complex quantum weak values are interpreted as spatial and angular shifts of polarized scalar components of the reflected beam. This connection leads us to predict an extra spatial shift for beams with a radially-varying phase dependence.

id: 1204.0337
title: Quantum mechanics of a charged particle in a background magnetic field interacting with linearized gravitational waves
authors: Sunandan Gangopadhyay, Anirban Saha
comments: 6 pages, LaTex
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A, Vol. 27, No. 35 (2012) 1250192
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0337
abstract: We consider the dynamics of a charged particle interacting with background electromagnetic field under the influence of linearized gravitational waves in the long wave-length and low-velocity limit. Following the prescription in \cite{speli}, the system is quantized and the Hamiltonian is then solved by using standard algebraic iterative methods. The solution is in conformity with the classical analysis and shows the possibility of tuning the frequency by changing the magnetic field to set up resonance.

id: 1204.0344
title: Non-adiabatic transitions in a massless scalar field
authors: Johannes von Keler, Stefan Teufel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0344
abstract: We consider the dynamics of a massless scalar field with time-dependent sources in the adiabatic limit. This is an example of an adiabatic problem without spectral gap. The main goal of our paper is to illustrate the difference between the error of the adiabatic approximation and the concept of non-adiabatic transitions for gapless systems. In our example the non-adiabatic transitions correspond to emission of free bosons, while the error of the adiabatic approximation is dominated by a velocity-dependent deformation of the ground state of the field. In order to capture these concepts precisely, we show how to construct super-adiabatic approximations for a gapless system.

id: 1204.0378
title: Weak Measurements of Light Chirality with a Plasmonic Slit
authors: Y. Gorodetski, K. Y. Bliokh, B. Stein, C. Genet, N. Shitrit, V. Kleiner, E. Hasman, T. W. Ebbesen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 013901 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0378
abstract: We examine, both experimentally and theoretically, an interaction of tightly focused polarized light with a slit on a metal surface supporting plasmon-polariton modes. Remarkably, this simple system can be highly sensitive to the polarization of the incident light and offers a perfect quantum-weak-measurement tool with a built-in post-selection in the plasmon-polariton mode. We observe the plasmonic spin Hall effect in both coordinate and momentum spaces which is interpreted as weak measurements of the helicity of light with real and imaginary weak values determined by the input polarization. Our experiment combines advantages of (i) quantum weak measurements, (ii) near-field plasmonic systems, and (iii) high-numerical aperture microscopy in employing spin-orbit interaction of light and probing light chirality.

id: 1204.0389
title: Efficient computation of the Zassenhaus formula
authors: Fernando Casas, Ander Murua, Mladen Nadinic
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure. Accepted for publication in Comput. Phys. Commun
journal: Computer Physics Communications 183 (2012), 2386-2391
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0389
abstract: A new recursive procedure to compute the Zassenhaus formula up to high order is presented, providing each exponent in the factorization directly as a linear combination of independent commutators and thus containing the minimum number of terms. The recursion can be easily implemented in a symbolic algebra package and requires much less computational effort, both in time and memory resources, than previous algorithms. In addition, by bounding appropriately each term in the recursion, it is possible to get a larger convergence domain of the Zassenhaus formula when it is formulated in a Banach algebra.

id: 1204.0587
title: Black-box superconducting circuit quantization
authors: Simon E. Nigg, Hanhee Paik, Brian Vlastakis, Gerhard Kirchmair, Shyam Shankar, Luigi Frunzio, Michel Devoret, Robert Schoelkopf, Steven Girvin
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, includes supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 240502 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0587
abstract: We present a semi-classical method for determining the effective low-energy quantum Hamiltonian of weakly anharmonic superconducting circuits containing mesoscopic Josephson junctions coupled to electromagnetic environments made of an arbitrary combination of distributed and lumped elements. A convenient basis, capturing the multi-mode physics, is given by the quantized eigenmodes of the linearized circuit and is fully determined by a classical linear response function. The method is used to calculate numerically the low-energy spectrum of a 3D-transmon system, and quantitative agreement with measurements is found.

id: 1204.0680
title: On the divergence of time-dependent perturbation theory applied to laser-induced molecular transitions: Analytical calculations for the simple algorithm
authors: Klaus Renziehausen
comments: 39 pages, 11 EPS-figures, uses dsfont.sty, iopart.cls and iopart12.clo, a shorted version of this article is to be published in the Journal of Physical Mathematics (Ashdin Publishing)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0680
abstract: Shaped laser pulses are a powerful tool to induce population transfer between electronic molecular states, and time-dependent perturbation theory is suitable for a description of such a transfer in weak external fields. The application of perturbation theory in numerical simulations of field matter interactions can lead to divergences. In a recent paper [K. Renziehausen et. al., J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys., 42:195402, 2009] we explained that the arising error in the norm of the wave function can be split into two parts. The first part is related to numerical errors caused by the discretisation of time that is required in the simulation and can be suppressed for a sufficiently small time step or abolished for an adequate numerical implementation of perturbation theory. The second part may cause divergences and is associated with the perturbative expansion order. We presented numerical evidence without any analytical proof. Here we are focussing on the derivation of analytical expressions to interpret the behavior of what we have called in the above mentioned paper 'simple algorithm'. The derivation of analytical expressions for the interpretation of what we have called in the above mentioned paper 'improved algorithm' are given in another paper [K. Renziehausen. arXiv, in preparation, 2012]. Moreover, we introduce here a gedankenexperiment to illustrate the influence of the different orders on the field-molecule interaction.

id: 1204.0686
title: Two-pulse stimulated echo in magnets
authors: M. D. Zviadadze, G. I. Mamniashvili, T. O. Gegechkori, A. M. Akhalkatsi, T. A. Gavasheli
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0686
abstract: The results of experimental study of two-pulse stimulated echo in ferromagnets of two types are presented. Ferromagnet Co and half-metal Co MnSi 2, in which a single-pulse echo formed by the distortion mechanism of the fronts of exciting pulse is also observed, are classified among the first type. Lithium ferrite and intermetal compound MnSb characterized by the absence of single-pulse echo in them - belong to the second type. For signals of two-pulse stimulated echo in the materials of the first type a short time and a long time of relaxations are observed. The short time is about the order of value shorter less than the spin-spin relaxation time. The long time is close to the transverse relaxation time of single-pulse echo formed by the distortion mechanism. The mechanisms that provide the possible interpretations of the peculiarities of the processes of nuclear magnetic relaxation are discussed.

id: 1204.0689
title: The polarization property of nanotubes with taking into account the radial motion of valence electrons
authors: V.A. Aleksandrov, A.V. Stepanov, G.M. Filippov
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0689
abstract: Dielectric properties of carbon nanotubes (CNT) are calculated with taking into account the deviation of carbon valence electrons from to be placed exactly on the CNT surface. The results show difference to the usually applied 2D electron gas theory. The collective as well as individual modes of elementary excitations for a model CNT are presented.

id: 1204.0732
title: Generating Entangled Microwave Radiation Over Two Transmission Lines
authors: Emmanuel Flurin, Nicolas Roch, Francois Mallet, Michel H. Devoret, Benjamin Huard
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Supplementary Information can be found here as an ancillary file
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 183901 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0732
abstract: Using a superconducting circuit, the Josephson mixer, we demonstrate the first experimental realization of spatially separated two-mode squeezed states of microwave light. Driven by a pump tone, a first Josephson mixer generates, out of quantum vacuum, a pair of entangled fields at different frequencies on separate transmission lines. A second mixer, driven by a $\pi$-phase shifted copy of the first pump tone, recombines and disentangles the two fields. The resulting output noise level is measured to be lower than for vacuum state at the input of the second mixer, an unambiguous proof of entanglement. Moreover, the output noise level provides a direct, quantitative measure of entanglement, leading here to the demonstration of 6 Mebit.s$^{-1}$ (Mega entangled bits per second) generated by the first mixer.

id: 1204.0759
title: Tuning entanglement and ergodicity in two-dimensional spin systems using impurities and anisotropy
authors: Gehad Sadiek, Qing Xu, Sabre Kais
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042313 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0759
abstract: We consider the entanglement in a two dimensional XY model in an external magnetic field h. The model consists of a set of 7 localized spin-1/2 particles in a two dimensional triangular lattice coupled through nearest neighbor exchange interaction J. We examine the effect of single and double impurities in the system as well as the degree of anisotropy on the nearest neighbor entanglement and ergodicity of the system. We have found that the entanglement of the system at the different degrees of anisotropy mimics that of the one dimensional spin systems at the extremely small and large values of the parameter h/J. The entanglement of the Ising and partially anisotropic system show phase transition in the vicinity of h/J = 2 while the entanglement of the isotropic system suddenly vanishes there. Also we investigate the dynamic response of the system containing single and double impurities to an external exponential magnetic field at different degrees of anisotropy. We have demonstrated that the ergodicity of the system can be controlled by varying the strength and location of the impurities as well as the degree of anisotropy of the coupling.

id: 1204.0823
title: Disordered quantum wires: microscopic origins of the DMPK theory and Ohm's law
authors: Sven Bachmann, Maximilian Butz, Wojciech De Roeck
comments: Corrects and extends arXiv:0912.1574
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0823
abstract: We study the electronic transport properties of the Anderson model on a strip, modeling a quasi one-dimensional disordered quantum wire. In the literature, the standard description of such wires is via random matrix theory (RMT). Our objective is to firmly relate this theory to a microscopic model. We correct and extend previous work (arXiv:0912.1574) on the same topic. In particular, we obtain through a physically motivated scaling limit an ensemble of random matrices that is close to, but not identical to the standard transfer matrix ensembles (sometimes called TOE, TUE), corresponding to the Dyson symmetry classes \beta=1,2. In the \beta=2 class, the resulting conductance is the same as the one from the ideal ensemble, i.e.\ from TUE. In the \beta=1 class, we find a deviation from TOE. It remains to be seen whether or not this deviation vanishes in a thick-wire limit, which is the experimentally relevant regime. For the ideal ensembles, we also prove Ohm's law for all symmetry classes, making mathematically precise a moment expansion by Mello and Stone. This proof bypasses the explicit but intricate solution methods that underlie most previous results.

id: 1204.0837
title: An optical diode made from a `flying' photonic crystal
authors: Da-Wei Wang, Joerg Evers, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, presented in PQE 2012
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 093901, 2013
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0837
abstract: Optical diodes controlling the flow of light are of principal significance for optical information processing 1. They transmit light from an input to an output, but not in reverse direction. This breaking of time reversal symmetry is typically achieved via non-linear 2,3 or magnetic effects 4, which imposes limits to all-optical control 5-7, on-chip integration 7-11, or single-photon operation 12. Here, we propose an optical diode which requires neither magnetic fields nor strong input fields. It is based on a flying photonic crystal. Due to the Doppler effect, the crystal has a band gap with frequency depending on the light propagation direction relative to the crystal motion. Counter-intuitively, our setup does not involve the movement of any material parts. Rather, the flying photonic crystal is realized by optically inducing a spatially periodic but moving modulation of the optical properties of a near-resonant medium. The flying crystal not only opens perspectives for optical diodes operating at low light levels or integrated in small solid state devices, but also enables novel photonic devices such as optically tunable mirrors and cavities.

id: 1204.0872
title: Foundations of Classical Electrodynamics, Equivalence Principle and Cosmic Interactions: A Short Exposition and an Update
authors: Wei-Tou Ni, Hsien-Hao Mei, Shan-Jyun Wu
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables. Plenary talk at First LeCosPA Symposium: Towards Ultimate Understanding of the Universe(LeCosPA2012), National Taiwan University, Taipei, ROC, February 6-9, 2012
journal: Modern Physics Letters A, Vol. 28, No. 3 (2013) 1340013
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0872
abstract: We look at the foundations of electromagnetism in this 1st LeCosPA Symposium. For doing this, after some review (constraints on photon mass etc.), we use two approaches. The first one is to formulate a Parametrized Post-Maxwellian (PPM) framework to include QED corrections and a pseudoscalar photon interaction. PPM framework includes lowest corrections to unified electromagnetism-gravity theories based on connection approach. It may also overlap with corrections implemented from generalized uncertainty principle (GUP) when electromagnetism-gravity coupling is considered. We discuss various vacuum birefringence experiments - ongoing and proposed - to measure these parameters. The second approach - the chi-g framework is to look at electromagnetism in gravity and various experiments and observations to determine its empirical foundation. The SME (Standard Model Extension) and SMS (Standard Model Supplement) overlap with the chi-g framework in their photon sector. We found that the foundation is solid with the only exception of a potentially possible pseudoscalar-photon interaction. We discussed its experimental constraints and look forward to more future experiments.

id: 1204.0903
title: Interacting Fibonacci anyons in a Rydberg gas
authors: Igor Lesanovsky, Hosho Katsura
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 86, 041601(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0903
abstract: A defining property of particles is their behavior under exchange. In two dimensions anyons can exist which, opposed to fermions and bosons, gain arbitrary relative phase factors or even undergo a change of their type. In the latter case one speaks of non-Abelian anyons - a particularly simple and aesthetic example of which are Fibonacci anyons. They have been studied in the context of fractional quantum Hall physics where they occur as quasiparticles in the $k=3$ Read-Rezayi state, which is conjectured to describe a fractional quantum Hall state at filling fraction $\nu=12/5$. Here we show that the physics of interacting Fibonacci anyons can be studied with strongly interacting Rydberg atoms in a lattice, when due to the dipole blockade the simultaneous laser excitation of adjacent atoms is forbidden. The Hilbert space maps then directly on the fusion space of Fibonacci anyons and a proper tuning of the laser parameters renders the system into an interacting topological liquid of non-Abelian anyons. We discuss the low-energy properties of this system and show how to experimentally measure anyonic observables.

id: 1204.0955
title: Light storage based on four-wave mixing and electromagnetically induced transparency in cold atoms
authors: Jinghui Wu, Yang Liu, Dong-Sheng Ding, Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures, 7 equations
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013845 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0955
abstract: We performed an experiment to observe the storages of an input probe field and an idler field generated through an off-axis four-wave mixing (FWM) process via a double-lambda configuration in a cold atomic ensemble. We analyzed the underlying physics in detail and found that the retrieved idler field came from two parts if there was no single-photon detuning for pump pulse: part 1 was from the collective atomic spin (the input probe field, the coupling field and the pump field combined to generate the idle field through FWM, then the idler was stored through electromagnetically induced transparency.); part 2 was from the generated new FWM process during the retrieval process (the retrieved probe field, the coupling field and the pump field combined to generate a new FWM signal). If there was single-photon detuning for pump pulse, then the retrieved idler was mainly from part 2. The retrieved two fields exhibited damped oscillations with the same oscillatory period when a homogeneous external magnetic field was applied, which was caused by the Larmor spin precession. We also experimentally realized the storage and retrieval of an image of light using FWM for the first time. In which, an image was added into the input signal. After the storage, the retrieved idler beams and input signal carried the same image. This image storage technique holds promises for application in image processing, remote sensing and quantum communication.

id: 1204.0981
title: The Bose-Hubbard model with localized particle losses
authors: Kosmas Kepesidis, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, minor revisions to previous version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063620 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.0981
abstract: We consider the Bose-Hubbard model with particle losses at one lattice site. For the non-interacting case, we find that half of the bosons of an initially homogeneous particle distribution, are not affected by dissipation that only acts on one lattice site in the center of the lattice. A physical interpretation of this result is that the surviving particles interfere destructively when they tunnel to the location of the dissipative defect and therefore never reach it. Furthermore we find for a one-dimensional model that a fraction of the particles can propagate across the dissipative defect even if the rate of tunneling between adjacent lattice sites is much slower than the loss rate at the defect. In the interacting case, the phase coherence is destroyed and all particles eventually decay. We thus analyze the effect of small interactions and small deviations from the perfectly symmetric setting on the protection of the particles against the localized losses. A possible experimental realization of our setup is provided by ultracold bosonic atoms in an optical lattice, where an electron beam on a single lattice site ionizes atoms that are then extracted by an electrostatic field.

id: 1204.1007
title: Theory of ferromagnetic unconventional superconductors with spin-triplet electron pairing
authors: Dimo I. Uzunov
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures; CP-ISSP-BAS preprint; a preliminary version of a review paper; to be submitted for a publication
journal: A Chapter, in: A.Gabovich (ed.), "Superconductors - Materials, Properties, and Applications" (InTech, 2012); ISBN: 979-953-307-798-6
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1007
abstract: A general phenomenological theory is presented for the phase behavior of ferromagnetic superconductors with spin-triplet electron Cooper pairing. The theory describes in details the temperature-pressure phase diagrams of real inter-metallic compounds exhibiting the remarkable phenomenon of coexistence of spontaneous magnetic moment of the itinerant electrons and spin-triplet superconductivity. The quantum phase transitions which may occur in these systems are also described. The theory allows for a classification of these itinerant ferromagnetic superconductors in two types: type I and type II. The classification is based on quantitative criteria.The comparison of theory and experiment is performed and outstanding problems are discussed.

id: 1204.1017
title: A microelectromechanically controlled cavity optomechanical sensing system
authors: Houxun Miao, Kartik Srinivasan, Vladimir Aksyuk
comments: this http URL
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 075015
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1017
abstract: Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) have been applied to many measurement problems in physics, chemistry, biology and medicine. In parallel, cavity optomechanical systems have achieved quantum-limited displacement sensitivity and ground state cooling of nanoscale objects. By integrating a novel cavity optomechanical structure into an actuated MEMS sensing platform, we demonstrate a system with high quality-factor interferometric readout, electrical tuning of the optomechanical coupling by two orders of magnitude, and a mechanical transfer function adjustable via feedback. The platform separates optical and mechanical components, allowing flexible customization for specific scientific and commercial applications. We achieve displacement sensitivity of 4.6 fm/Hz^1/2 and force sensitivity of 53 aN/Hz^1/2 with only 250 nW optical power launched into the sensor. Cold-damping feedback is used to reduce the thermal mechanical vibration of the sensor by 3 orders of magnitude and to broaden the sensor bandwidth by approximately the same factor, to above twice the fundamental frequency of \approx 40 kHz. The readout sensitivity approaching the standard quantum limit is combined with MEMS actuation in a fully integrated, compact, low power, stable system compatible with Si batch fabrication and electronics integration.

id: 1204.1077
title: Emergence: Key physical issues for deeper philosophical inquiries
authors: Bei-Lok Hu
comments: 16 pages. Invited Talk at the Heinz von Foerster Centenary International Conference on Self-Organization and Emergence: Emergent Quantum Mechanics (EmerQuM11). Nov. 10-13, 2011, Vienna, Austria. Proceedings to appear in J. Phys. (Conf. Series)
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1077
abstract: A sketch of three senses of emergence and a suggestive view on the emergence of time and the direction of time is presented. After trying to identify which issues philosophers interested in emergent phenomena in physics view as important I make several observations pertaining to the concepts, methodology and mechanisms required to understand emergence and describe a platform for its investigation. I then identify some key physical issues which I feel need be better appreciated by the philosophers in this pursuit. I end with some comments on one of these issues, that of coarse-graining and persistent structures.

id: 1204.1084
title: Encoding Universal Computation in the Ground States of Ising Lattices
authors: Mile Gu, Alvaro Perales
comments: 6 Pages, 1 Figure, fixed notation issues, updated journal reference
journal: Phys. Rev. E. 6, 011116 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1084
abstract: We characterize the set of ground states that can be synthesized by classical 2-body Ising Hamiltonians. We then construct simple Ising planar blocks that simulates efficiently a universal set of logic gates and connections, and hence any boolean function. We therefore provide a new method of encoding universal computation in the ground states of Ising lattices, and a simpler alternative demonstration of the known fact that finding the ground state of a finite Ising spin glass model is NP complete. We relate this with our previous result about emergence properties in infinite lattices.

id: 1204.1135
title: A finite oscillator model related to sl(2|1)
authors: E.I. Jafarov, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 275301 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1135
abstract: We investigate a new model for the finite one-dimensional quantum oscillator based upon the Lie superalgebra sl(2|1). In this setting, it is natural to present the position and momentum operators of the oscillator as odd elements of the Lie superalgebra. The model involves a parameter p (0<p<1) and an integer representation label j. In the (2j+1)-dimensional representations W_j of sl(2|1), the Hamiltonian has the usual equidistant spectrum. The spectrum of the position operator is discrete and turns out to be of the form $\pm\sqrt{k}$, where k=0,1,...,j. We construct the discrete position wave functions, which are given in terms of certain Krawtchouk polynomials. These wave functions have appealing properties, as can already be seen from their plots. The model is sufficiently simple, in the sense that the corresponding discrete Fourier transform (relating position wave functions to momentum wave functions) can be constructed explicitly.

id: 1204.1150
title: Spin waves and Collisional Frequency Shifts of a Trapped-Atom Clock
authors: Wilfried Maineult, Christian Deutsch, Kurt Gibble, Jakob Reichel, Peter Rosenbusch
comments: Will appear soon in Physical Review Letters - Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 020407 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1150
abstract: We excite spin-waves with spatially inhomogeneous pulses and study the resulting frequency shifts of a chip-scale atomic clock of trapped $^{87}$Rb. The density-dependent frequency shifts of the hyperfine transition simulate the s-wave collisional frequency shifts of fermions, including those of optical lattice clocks. As the spin polarizations oscillate in the trap, the frequency shift reverses and it depends on the area of the second Ramsey pulse, exhibiting a predicted beyond mean-field frequency shift. Numerical and analytic models illustrate the observed behaviors.

id: 1204.1214
title: Bunching and anti-bunching of localised particles in disordered media
authors: Frank Schlawin, Nicolas Cherroret, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhysics Letters, 99 (2012) 14001
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1214
abstract: We consider pairs of non-interacting quantum particles transmitted through a disordered medium, with emphasis on the role of their quantum statistics. It is shown that particle-number correlations measured in transmission are strikingly sensitive to the quantum nature of the particles when they undergo Anderson localisation, due to bosonic bunching and fermionic anti-bunching in the scattering channels of the medium. The case of distinguishable particles is also discussed.

id: 1204.1238
title: Majorana-Like Modes of Light in a One-Dimensional Array of Nonlinear Cavities
authors: C.-E. Bardyn, A. Imamoglu
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; with Supplemental Material (12 pages)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 253606 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1238
abstract: The search for Majorana fermions in p-wave paired fermionic systems has recently moved to the forefront of condensed-matter research. Here we propose an alternative route and show theoretically that Majorana-like modes can be realized and probed in a driven-dissipative system of strongly correlated photons consisting of a chain of tunnel-coupled cavities, where p-wave pairing effectively arises from the interplay between strong on-site interactions and two-photon parametric driving. The nonlocal nature of these exotic modes could be demonstrated through cross-correlation measurements carried out at the ends of the chain---revealing a strong photon bunching signature---and their non-Abelian properties could be simulated through tunnel-braid operations.

id: 1204.1256
title: Controlling phase separation of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate by confinement
authors: L. Wen, W. M. Liu, Yongyong Cai, J. M. Zhang, Jiangping Hu
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 043602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1256
abstract: We point out that the widely accepted condition g11g22<g122 for phase separation of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate is insufficient if kinetic energy is taken into account, which competes against the intercomponent interaction and favors phase mixing. Here g11, g22, and g12 are the intra- and intercomponent interaction strengths, respectively. Taking a d-dimensional infinitely deep square well potential of width L as an example, a simple scaling analysis shows that if d=1 (d=3), phase separation will be suppressed as L\rightarrow0 (L\rightarrow\infty) whether the condition g11g22<g122 is satisfied or not. In the intermediate case of d=2, the width L is irrelevant but again phase separation can be partially or even completely suppressed even if g11g22<g122. Moreover, the miscibility-immiscibility transition is turned from a first-order one into a second-order one by the kinetic energy. All these results carry over to d-dimensional harmonic potentials, where the harmonic oscillator length {\xi}ho plays the role of L. Our finding provides a scenario of controlling the miscibility-immiscibility transition of a two-component condensate by changing the confinement, instead of the conventional approach of changing the values of the g's.

id: 1204.1309
title: Finding room for antilinear terms in the Hamiltonian
authors: Michael Eisele
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure; added the reference [3] concerning quantum simulation
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1309
abstract: Although the Hamiltonian in quantum physics has to be a linear operator, it is possible to make quantum systems behave as if their Hamiltonians contained antilinear (i.e., semilinear or conjugate-linear) terms. For any given quantum system, another system can be constructed that is physically equivalent to the original one. It can be designed, despite the Wightman reconstruction theorem, so that antilinear operators in the original system become linear operators in the new system. Under certain conditions, these operators can then be added to the new Hamiltonian. The new quantum system has some unconventional features, a hidden degeneracy of the vacuum and a subtle distinction between the Hamiltonian and the observable of energy, but the physical equivalence guarantees that its states evolve like those in the original system and that corresponding measurements produce the same results. The same construction can be used to make time-reversal linear.

id: 1204.1313
title: Quantum diffusion with disorder, noise and interaction
authors: C. D'Errico, M. Moratti, E. Lucioni, L. Tanzi, B. Deissler, M. Inguscio, G. Modugno, M.B. Plenio, F. Caruso
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 045007 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1313
abstract: Disorder, noise and interaction play a crucial role in the transport properties of real systems, but they are typically hard to control and study both theoretically and experimentally, especially in the quantum case. Here we explore a paradigmatic problem, the diffusion of a wavepacket, by employing ultra-cold atoms in a disordered lattice with controlled noise and tunable interaction. The presence of disorder leads to Anderson localization, while both interaction and noise tend to suppress localization and restore transport, although with completely different mechanisms. When only noise or interaction are present we observe a diffusion dynamics that can be explained by existing microscopic models. When noise and interaction are combined, we observe instead a complex anomalous diffusion. By combining experimental measurements with numerical simulations, we show that such anomalous behavior can be modeled with a generalized diffusion equation, in which the noise- and interaction-induced diffusions enter in an additive manner. Our study reveals also a more complex interplay between the two diffusion mechanisms in regimes of strong interaction or narrowband noise.

id: 1204.1321
title: Nonequlibrium particle and energy currents in quantum chains connected to mesoscopic Fermi reservoirs
authors: S. Ajisaka, F. Barra, C. Mejia-Monasterio, T. Prosen
comments: 5pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1321
abstract: We propose a model of nonequilibrium quantum transport of particles and energy in a system connected to mesoscopic Fermi reservoirs (meso-reservoir). The meso-reservoirs are in turn thermalized to prescribed temperatures and chemical potentials by a simple dissipative mechanism described by the Lindblad equation. As an example, we study transport in monoatomic and diatomic chains of non-interacting spinless fermions. We show numerically the breakdown of the Onsager reciprocity relation due to the dissipative terms of the model.

id: 1204.1340
title: Thermodynamic singularities in the entanglement entropy at a 2D quantum critical point
authors: Rajiv R. P. Singh, Roger G. Melko, Jaan Oitmaa
comments: 4 pages, plus references and supplement
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 075106 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1340
abstract: We study the bipartite entanglement entropy of the two-dimensional (2D) transverse-field Ising model in the thermodynamic limit using series expansion methods. Expansions are developed for the Renyi entropy around both the small-field and large-field limits, allowing the separate calculation of the entanglement associated with lines and corners at the boundary between sub-systems. Series extrapolations are used to extract subleading power laws and logarithmic singularities as the quantum critical point is approached. In 1D, we find excellent agreement with exact results as well as quantum Monte Carlo simulations. In 2D, we find compelling evidence that the entanglement at a corner is significantly different from a free boson field theory. These results demonstrate the power of the series expansion method for calculating entanglement entropy in interacting systems, a fact that will be particularly useful in future searches for exotic quantum criticality in models with and without the sign problem.

id: 1204.1426
title: Approximate Analytical Solutions of a Two-Term Diatomic Molecular Potential with Centrifugal Barrier
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 13 pages
journal: J. Math. Chem. 50, 1920 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1426
abstract: Approximate analytical bound state solutions of the radial Schr\"odinger equation are studied for a two-term diatomic molecular potential in terms of the hypergeometric functions for the cases where $q\geq1$ and $q=0$. The energy eigenvalues and the corresponding normalized wave functions of the Manning-Rosen potential, the 'standard' Hulth\'{e}n potential and the generalized Morse potential are briefly studied as special cases. It is observed that our analytical results are the same with the ones obtained before.

id: 1204.1445
title: Enhanced thermoelectric properties in hybrid graphene-boron nitride nanoribbons
authors: Kaike Yang, Yuanping Chen, Roberto D'Agosta, Yuee Xie, Jianxin Zhong, Angel Rubio
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1445
abstract: The thermoelectric properties of hybrid graphene-boron nitride nanoribbons (BCNNRs) are investigated using the non-equilibrium Green's function (NEGF) approach. We find that the thermoelectric figure of merit (ZT) can be remarkably enhanced by periodically embedding hexagonal BN (h-BN) into graphene nanoribbons (GNRs). Compared to pristine GNRs, the ZT for armchair-edged BCNNRs with width index 3p+2 is enhanced up to 10~20 times while the ZT of nanoribbons with other widths is enhanced just by 1.5~3 times. As for zigzag-edge nanoribbons, the ZT is enhanced up to 2~3 times. This improvement comes from the combined increase in the Seebeck coefficient and the reduction in the thermal conductivity outweighing the decrease in the electrical conductance. In addition, the effect of component ratio of h-BN on the thermoelectric transport properties is discussed. These results qualify BCNNRs as a promising candidate for building outstanding thermoelectric devices.

id: 1204.1505
title: Lower bounds on information complexity via zero-communication protocols and applications
authors: Iordanis Kerenidis, Sophie Laplante, Virginie Lerays, J¨¦r¨¦mie Roland, David Xiao
comments: 22 pages
journal: In 53rd Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS'12), pages 500-509, 2012
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1505
abstract: We show that almost all known lower bound methods for communication complexity are also lower bounds for the information complexity. In particular, we define a relaxed version of the partition bound of Jain and Klauck and prove that it lower bounds the information complexity of any function. Our relaxed partition bound subsumes all norm based methods (e.g. the factorization norm method) and rectangle-based methods (e.g. the rectangle/corruption bound, the smooth rectangle bound, and the discrepancy bound), except the partition bound. Our result uses a new connection between rectangles and zero-communication protocols where the players can either output a value or abort. We prove the following compression lemma: given a protocol for a function f with information complexity I, one can construct a zero-communication protocol that has non-abort probability at least 2^{-O(I)} and that computes f correctly with high probability conditioned on not aborting. Then, we show how such a zero-communication protocol relates to the relaxed partition bound. We use our main theorem to resolve three of the open questions raised by Braverman. First, we show that the information complexity of the Vector in Subspace Problem is {\Omega}(n^{1/3}), which, in turn, implies that there exists an exponential separation between quantum communication complexity and classical information complexity. Moreover, we provide an {\Omega}(n) lower bound on the information complexity of the Gap Hamming Distance Problem.

id: 1204.1512
title: Diagrammatic approach to coherent backscattering of laser light by cold atoms: Double scattering revisited
authors: Vyacheslav Shatokhin, Thomas Wellens, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 45, 215501 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1512
abstract: We present a diagrammatic derivation of the coherent backscattering spectrum from two two-level atoms using the pump-probe approach, wherein the multiple scattering signal is deduced from single-atom responses, and provide a physical interpretation of the single-atom building blocks.

id: 1204.1524
title: Coherent States in Gravitational Quantum Mechanics
authors: Pouria Pedram
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. D
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. D 22 (2013) 1350004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1524
abstract: We present the coherent states of the harmonic oscillator in the framework of the generalized (gravitational) uncertainty principle (GUP). This form of GUP is consistent with various theories of quantum gravity such as string theory, loop quantum gravity, and black-hole physics and implies a minimal measurable length. Using a recently proposed formally self-adjoint representation, we find the GUP-corrected Hamiltonian as a generator of the generalized Heisenberg algebra. Then following Klauder's approach, we construct exact coherent states and obtain the corresponding normalization coefficients, weight functions, and probability distributions. We find the entropy of the system and show that it decreases in the presence of the minimal length. These results could shed light on possible detectable Planck-scale effects within recent experimental tests.

id: 1204.1525
title: Quantum teleportation between moving detectors in a quantum field
authors: Shih-Yuin Lin, Kazutomu Shiokawa, Chung-Hsien Chou, B. L. Hu
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 91, 084063 (2015)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1525
abstract: We consider the quantum teleportation of continuous variables modeled by Unruh-DeWitt detectors coupled to a common quantum field initially in the Minkowski vacuum. An unknown coherent state of an Unruh-DeWitt detector is teleported from one inertial agent (Alice) to an almost uniformly accelerated agent (Rob, for relativistic motion), using a detector pair initially entangled and shared by these two agents. The averaged physical fidelity of quantum teleportation, which is independent of the observer's frame, always drops below the best fidelity value from classical teleportation before the detector pair becomes disentangled with the measure of entanglement evaluated around the future lightcone of the joint measurement event by Alice. The distortion of the quantum state of the entangled detector pair from the initial state can suppress the fidelity significantly even when the detectors are still strongly entangled around the lightcone. We point out that the dynamics of entanglement of the detector pair observed in Minkowski frame or in quasi-Rindler frame are not directly related to the physical fidelity of quantum teleportation in our setup. These results are useful as a guide to making judicious choices of states and parameter ranges and estimation of the efficiency of quantum teleportation in relativistic quantum systems under environmental influences.

id: 1204.1642
title: The Constraints and Spectra of a Deformed Quantum Mechanics
authors: Chee-Leong Ching, Rajesh R. Parwani, Kuldip Singh
comments: 30 pages inclusive of 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1642
abstract: We examine a deformed quantum mechanics in which the commutator between coordinates and momenta is a function of momenta. The Jacobi identity constraint on a two-parameter class of such modified commutation relations (MCR's) shows that they encode an intrinsic maximum momentum; a sub-class of which also imply a minimum position uncertainty. Maximum momentum causes the bound state spectrum of the one-dimensional harmonic oscillator to terminate at finite energy, whereby classical characteristics are observed for the studied cases. We then use a semi-classical analysis to discuss general concave potentials in one dimension and isotropic power-law potentials in higher dimensions. Among other conclusions, we find that in a subset of the studied MCR's, the leading order energy shifts of bound states are of opposite sign compared to those obtained using string-theory motivated MCR's, and thus these two cases are more easily distinguishable in potential experiments.

id: 1204.1674
title: The monomer-dimer problem and moment Lyapunov exponents of homogeneous Gaussian random fields
authors: Igor G. Vladimirov
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures, submitted on 14 October 2011 to a special issue of DCDS-B
journal: Discrete and Continuous Dynamical Systems - Series B (DCDS-B), vol. 18, no. 2, 2013, pp. 575-600
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1674
abstract: We consider an "elastic" version of the statistical mechanical monomer-dimer problem on the n-dimensional integer lattice. Our setting includes the classical "rigid" formulation as a special case and extends it by allowing each dimer to consist of particles at arbitrarily distant sites of the lattice, with the energy of interaction between the particles in a dimer depending on their relative position. We reduce the free energy of the elastic dimer-monomer (EDM) system per lattice site in the thermodynamic limit to the moment Lyapunov exponent (MLE) of a homogeneous Gaussian random field (GRF) whose mean value and covariance function are the Boltzmann factors associated with the monomer energy and dimer potential. In particular, the classical monomer-dimer problem becomes related to the MLE of a moving average GRF. We outline an approach to recursive computation of the partition function for "Manhattan" EDM systems where the dimer potential is a weighted l1-distance and the auxiliary GRF is a Markov random field of Pickard type which behaves in space like autoregressive processes do in time. For one-dimensional Manhattan EDM systems, we compute the MLE of the resulting Gaussian Markov chain as the largest eigenvalue of a compact transfer operator on a Hilbert space which is related to the annihilation and creation operators of the quantum harmonic oscillator and also recast it as the eigenvalue problem for a pantograph functional-differential equation.

id: 1204.1697
title: Fractional Quantum Hall Effect in Topological Flat Bands with Chern Number Two
authors: Yi-Fei Wang, Hong Yao, Chang-De Gong, D. N. Sheng
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures, with Supplementary Material
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 201101(R) (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1697
abstract: Recent theoretical works have demonstrated various robust Abelian and non-Abelian fractional topological phases in lattice models with topological flat bands carrying Chern number C=1. Here we study hard-core bosons and interacting fermions in a three-band triangular-lattice model with the lowest topological flat band of Chern number C=2. We find convincing numerical evidence of bosonic fractional quantum Hall effect at the $\nu=1/3$ filling characterized by three-fold quasi-degeneracy of ground states on a torus, a fractional Chern number for each ground state, a robust spectrum gap, and a gap in quasihole excitation spectrum. We also observe numerical evidence of a robust fermionic fractional quantum Hall effect for spinless fermions at the $\nu=1/5$ filling with short-range interactions.

id: 1204.1724
title: Study of Simulation Method of Time Evolution in Rigged QED
authors: Kazuhide Ichikawa, Masahiro Fukuda, Akitomo Tachibana
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Chem. 113, 3, 190-202 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1724
abstract: We discuss how we formulate time evolution of physical quantities in the framework of the Rigged QED (Quantum Electrodynamics). The Rigged QED is a theory which has been proposed to treat dynamics of electrons, photons and atomic nuclei in atomic and molecular systems in a quantum field theoretic way. To solve the dynamics in the Rigged QED, we need different techniques from those developed for the conventional QED. As a first step toward this issue, we propose a procedure to expand the Dirac field operator, which represents electrons, by the electron annihilation/creation operators and solutions of the Dirac equation for electrons in nuclear potential. Similarly, the Schrodinger field operators, which represent atomic nuclei, are expanded by nucleus annihilation/creation operators. Then we derive time evolution equations for these annihilation and creation operators and discuss how time evolution of the operators for physical quantities can be calculated. In the end, we propose a method to approximate the evolution equations of the operators by the evolution equations for the density matrices of electrons and atomic nuclei. Under this approximation, we carry out numerical simulation of the time evolution of electron charge density of a hydrogen atom.

id: 1204.1763
title: Dynamics of hydrogen-like atom bounded by maximal acceleration
authors: Yaakov Friedman, Emanuel Resin
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physica Scripta, 86 (2012) 015002
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1763
abstract: The existence of a maximal acceleration for massive objects was conjectured by Caianiello 30 years ago based on the Heisenberg uncertainty relations. Many consequences of this hypothesis have been studied, but until now, there has been no evidence that boundedness of the acceleration may lead to quantum behavior. In previous research, we predicted the existence of a universal maximal acceleration and developed a new dynamics for which all admissible solutions have an acceleration bounded by the maximal one. Based on W. K\"{u}ndig's experiment, as reanalyzed by Kholmetskii et al, we estimated its value to be of the order $10^{19}m/s^2$. We present here a solution of our dynamical equation for a classical hydrogen-like atom and show that this dynamics leads to some aspects of quantum behavior. We show that the position of an electron in a hydrogen-like atom can be described only probabilistically. We also show that in this model, the notion of "center of mass" must be modified. This modification supports the non-existence of a magnetic moment in the atom and explains the relevance of the conformal group in the quantum region.

id: 1204.1896
title: (Oscillating) non-exponential decays of unstable states
authors: Francesco Giacosa, Giuseppe Pagliara
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, revised version in print in the Proceedings of the "50th International Winter Meeting on Nuclear Physics", 23-27 January 2012, Bormio, Italy
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.1896
abstract: We discuss deviations from the exponential decay law which originate when going beyond the Breit-Wigner distribution for an unstable state. In particular, we concentrate on an oscillating behavior, reminiscent of the Rabi-oscillations, in the short-time region. We propose that these oscillations can explain the GSI experiment, which measured superimposed oscillations on top of the exponential law for hydrogen-like nuclides decaying via electron-capture (the so-called GSI anomaly). Moreover, we discuss the possibility, that the deviations from the Breit-Wigner distribution in the case of the GSI anomaly are (predominantly) caused by the interaction of the unstable state with the measurement apparatus. The consequences of this scenario, such as the non-existence of oscillations in an analogous experiment performed at the Berkeley Lab, are investigated.

id: 1204.2008
title: Fast Frictionless Expansion of an Optical Lattice
authors: C. Yuce
comments: To be published in PLA
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376, 1717 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2008
abstract: We investigate fast frictionless expansion of an optical lattice with dynamically variable spacing (accordion lattice). We design an expansion trajectory that yields a final state identical to the initial state up to an irrelevant phase factor. We discuss the effect of additional force and nonlinear interaction on the fast frictionless expansion.

id: 1204.2016
title: Simple Derivation of the Lindblad Equation
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: To be published in the European Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2016
abstract: The Lindblad equation is an evolution equation for the density matrix in quantum theory. It is the general linear, Markovian, form which ensures that the density matrix is hermitian, trace 1, positive and completely positive. Some elementary examples of the Lindblad equation are given. The derivation of the Lindblad equation presented here is "simple" in that all it uses is the expression of a hermitian matrix in terms of its orthonormal eigenvectors and real eigenvalues. Thus, it is appropriate for students who have learned the algebra of quantum theory. Where helpful, arguments are first given in a two-dimensional hilbert space.

id: 1204.2122
title: Entanglement in a model for Hawking radiation: An Application of Quadratic Algebras
authors: Bindu A. Bambah, C. Mukku, T. Shreecharan, K. Siva Prasad
comments: 20 pages, 15 figures. revised version with one figure removed
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2122
abstract: Quadratic polynomially deformed $su(1,1)$ and $su(2)$ algebras are utilised in model Hamiltonians to show how the gravitational system consisting of a black hole, infalling radiation and outgoing (Hawking) radiation can be solved exactly. The models allow us to study the long-time behaviour of the black hole and its outgoing modes. In particular, we calculate the bipartite entanglement entropies of subsystems consisting of a) infalling plus outgoing modes and b) black hole modes plus the infalling modes,using the Janus-faced nature of the model.The long-time behaviour also gives us glimpses of modifications in the character of Hawking radiation. Lastly, we study the phenomenon of superradiance in our model in analogy with atomic Dicke superradiance.

id: 1204.2161
title: Relation between the eigenfrequencies of Bogoliubov excitations of Bose-Einstein condensates and the eigenvalues of the Jacobian in a time-dependent variational approach
authors: Manuel Kreibich, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013608 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2161
abstract: We study the relation between the eigenfrequencies of the Bogoliubov excitations of Bose-Einstein condensates, and the eigenvalues of the Jacobian stability matrix in a variational approach which maps the Gross-Pitaevskii equation to a system of equations of motion for the variational parameters. We do this for Bose-Einstein condensates with attractive contact interaction in an external trap, and for a simple model of a self-trapped Bose-Einstein condensate with attractive 1/r interaction. The stationary solutions of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation and Bogoliubov excitations are calculated using a finite-difference scheme. The Bogoliubov spectra of the ground and excited state of the self-trapped monopolar condensate exhibits a Rydberg-like structure, which can be explained by means of a quantum defect theory. On the variational side, we treat the problem using an ansatz of time-dependent coupled Gaussians combined with spherical harmonics. We first apply this ansatz to a condensate in an external trap without long-range interaction, and calculate the excitation spectrum with the help of the time-dependent variational principle. Comparing with the full-numerical results, we find a good agreement for the eigenfrequencies of the lowest excitation modes with arbitrary angular momenta. The variational method is then applied to calculate the excitations of the self-trapped monopolar condensates, and the eigenfrequencies of the excitation modes are compared.

id: 1204.2218
title: Decoder for Nonbinary CWS Quantum Codes
authors: Nolmar Melo, Douglas F.G. Santiago, Renato Portugal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2218
abstract: We present a decoder for nonbinary CWS quantum codes using the structure of union codes. The decoder runs in two steps: first we use a union of stabilizer codes to detect a sequence of errors, and second we build a new code, called union code, that allows to correct the errors.

id: 1204.2220
title: Ignorance based inference of optimality in thermodynamic processes
authors: Preety Aneja, Ramandeep S. Johal
comments: Latex, 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2220
abstract: We derive ignorance based prior distribution to quantify incomplete information and show its use to estimate the optimal work characteristics of a heat engine.

id: 1204.2271
title: Thermal phase transitions for Dicke-type models in the ultra-strong coupling limit
authors: M. Aparicio Alcalde, M. Bucher, C. Emary, T. Brandes
comments: 4 pages Brief Report style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2271
abstract: We consider the Dicke model in the ultra-strong coupling limit to investigate thermal phase transitions and their precursors at finite particle numbers $N$ for bosonic and fermionic systems. We derive partition functions with degeneracy factors that account for the number of configurations and derive explicit expressions for the Landau free energy. This allows us to discuss the difference between the original Dicke (fermionic) and the bosonic case. We find a crossover between these two cases that shows up, e.g., in the specific heat.

id: 1204.2291
title: PT-symmetric deformations of integrable models
authors: Andreas Fring
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A, 2013 371 20120046
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2291
abstract: We review recent results on new physical models constructed as PT-symmetrical deformations or extensions of different types of integrable models. We present non-Hermitian versions of quantum spin chains, multi-particle systems of Calogero-Moser-Sutherland type and non-linear integrable field equations of Korteweg-de-Vries type. The quantum spin chain discussed is related to the first example in the series of the non-unitary models of minimal conformal field theories. For the Calogero-Moser-Sutherland models we provide three alternative deformations: A complex extension for models related to all types of Coxeter/Weyl groups; models describing the evolution of poles in constrained real valued field equations of non linear integrable systems and genuine deformations based on antilinearly invariant deformed root systems. Deformations of complex nonlinear integrable field equations of KdV-type are studied with regard to different kinds of PT-symmetrical scenarios. A reduction to simple complex quantum mechanical models currently under discussion is presented.

id: 1204.2318
title: A note on the switching adiabatic theorem
authors: Alexander Elgart, George A. Hagedorn
comments: 20 pages, no figures, to appear in JMP
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2318
abstract: We derive a nearly optimal upper bound on the running time in the adiabatic theorem for a switching family of Hamiltonians. We assume the switching Hamiltonian is in the Gevrey class $G^\alpha$ as a function of time, and we show that the error in adiabatic approximation remains small for running times of order $g^{-2}\,|\ln\,g\,|^{6\alpha}$. Here $g$ denotes the minimal spectral gap between the eigenvalue(s) of interest and the rest of the spectrum of the instantaneous Hamiltonian.

id: 1204.2391
title: Fabrication and characterization of an electrically contacted vapor cell
authors: Renate Daschner, Ralf Ritter, Harald K¨¹bler, Norbert Fr¨¹hauf, Eberhard Kurz, Robert L?w, Tilman Pfau
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2391
abstract: We demonstrate the use of electrically contacted vapor cells to switch the transmission of a probe laser. The excitation scheme makes use of electromagnetically induced transparency involving a Rydberg state. The cell fabrication technique involves thinfilm based electric feedthroughs which are well suited for scaling this concept to many addressable pixels like in flat panel displays.

id: 1204.2414
title: Delay Time in Quaternionic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Stefano De Leo, Gisele Ducati
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 53, 022102-8 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2414
abstract: In looking for quaternionic violations of quantum mechanics, we discuss the delay time for pure quaternionic potentials. The study shows in which energy region it is possible to amplify the difference between quaternionic and complex quantum mechanics.

id: 1204.2450
title: Entanglement Entropy from a Holographic Viewpoint
authors: Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: Latex, 30 pages, invited review for Classical and Quantum Gravity, minor corrections
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 29 (2012) 153001
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2450
abstract: The entanglement entropy has been historically studied by many authors in order to obtain quantum mechanical interpretations of the gravitational entropy. The discovery of AdS/CFT correspondence leads to the idea of holographic entanglement entropy, which is a clear solution to this important problem in gravity. In this article, we would like to give a quick survey of recent progresses on the holographic entanglement entropy. We focus on its gravitational aspects, so that it is comprehensible to those who are familiar with general relativity and basics of quantum field theory.

id: 1204.2479
title: Initialization by measurement of a two-qubit superconducting circuit
authors: D. Rist¨¨, J. G. van Leeuwen, H.-S. Ku, K. W. Lehnert, L. DiCarlo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, and Supplementary Information (7 figures, 1 table)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 050507 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2479
abstract: We demonstrate initialization by joint measurement of two transmon qubits in 3D circuit quantum electrodynamics. Homodyne detection of cavity transmission is enhanced by Josephson parametric amplification to discriminate the two-qubit ground state from single-qubit excitations non-destructively and with 98.1% fidelity. Measurement and postselection of a steady-state mixture with 4.7% residual excitation per qubit achieve 98.8% fidelity to the ground state, thus outperforming passive initialization.

id: 1204.2482
title: Exact quantum master equation for a molecular aggregate coupled to a harmonic bath
authors: Maxim F. Gelin, Dassia Egorova, Wolfgang Domcke
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 041139 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2482
abstract: We consider a molecular aggregate consisting of $N$ identical monomers. Each monomer comprises two electronic levels and a single harmonic mode. The monomers interact with each other via dipole-dipole forces. The monomer vibrational modes are bilinearly coupled to a bath of harmonic oscillators. This is a prototypical model for the description of coherent exciton transport, from quantum dots to photosynthetic antennae. We derive an exact quantum master equation for such systems. Computationally, the master equation may be useful for the testing of various approximations employed in theories of quantum transport. Physically, it offers a plausible explanation of the origins of long-lived coherent optical responses of molecular aggregates in dissipative environments.

id: 1204.2494
title: Variational problem for the Frenkel and the Bargmann-Michel-Telegdi (BMT) equations
authors: A. A. Deriglazov
comments: 04 pages, notations changed, misprints corrected
journal: Modern Physics Letters A Vol. 28, No. 1 (2013) 1250234
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2494
abstract: We propose Lagrangian formulation for the particle with value of spin fixed within the classical theory. The Lagrangian turns out to be invariant under non-abelian group of local symmetries. As the gauge-invariant variables for description of spin we can take either the Frenkel tensor or the BMT vector. Fixation of spin within the classical theory implies $O(\hbar)$-corrections to the corresponding equations of motion.

id: 1204.2511
title: The Hartree limit of Born's ensemble for the ground state of a bosonic atom or ion
authors: Michael K.-H. Kiessling
comments: Corrected version. Accepted for publication in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 095223 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2511
abstract: The non-relativistic bosonic ground state is studied for quantum N-body systems with Coulomb interactions, modeling atoms or ions made of N "bosonic point electrons" bound to an atomic point nucleus of Z "electron" charges, treated in Born--Oppenheimer approximation. It is shown that the (negative) ground state energy E(Z,N) yields the monotonically growing function (E(l N,N) over N cubed). By adapting an argument of Hogreve, it is shown that its limit as N to infinity for l > l* is governed by Hartree theory, with the rescaled bosonic ground state wave function factoring into an infinite product of identical one-body wave functions determined by the Hartree equation. The proof resembles the construction of the thermodynamic mean-field limit of the classical ensembles with thermodynamically unstable interactions, except that here the ensemble is Born's, with the absolute square of the ground state wave function as ensemble probability density function, with the Fisher information functional in the variational principle for Born's ensemble playing the role of the negative of the Gibbs entropy functional in the free-energy variational principle for the classical petit-canonical configurational ensemble.

id: 1204.2770
title: Local Relativistic Exact Decoupling
authors: Daoling Peng, Markus Reiher
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 136 (2012) 244108
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2770
abstract: We present a systematic hierarchy of approximations for {\it local} exact-decoupling of four-component quantum chemical Hamiltonians based on the Dirac equation. Our ansatz reaches beyond the trivial local approximation that is based on a unitary transformation of only the atomic block-diagonal part of the Hamiltonian. Systematically, off-diagonal Hamiltonian matrix blocks can be subjected to a unitary transformation to yield relativistically corrected matrix elements. The full hierarchy is investigated with respect to the accuracy reached for the electronic energy and molecular properties on a balanced test molecule set that comprises molecules with heavy elements in different bonding situations. Our atomic (local) assembly of the unitary transformation needed for exact decoupling provides an excellent local approximation for any relativistic exact-decoupling approach. Its order-$N^2$ scaling can be further reduced to linear scaling by employing the neighboring-atomic-blocks approximation. Therefore, it is an efficient relativistic method perfectly well suited for relativistic calculations on large molecules. If a large molecule contains many light atoms (typically hydrogen atoms), the computational costs can be further reduced by employing a well-defined non-relativistic approximation for these light atoms without significant loss of accuracy.

id: 1204.2792
title: Signatures of Majorana fermions in hybrid superconductor-semiconductor nanowire devices
authors: V. Mourik, K. Zuo, S. M. Frolov, S. R. Plissard, E. P. A. M. Bakkers, L. P. Kouwenhoven
comments: Raw data available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2792
abstract: Majorana fermions are particles identical to their own antiparticles. They have been theoretically predicted to exist in topological superconductors. We report electrical measurements on InSb nanowires contacted with one normal (Au) and one superconducting electrode (NbTiN). Gate voltages vary electron density and define a tunnel barrier between normal and superconducting contacts. In the presence of magnetic fields of order 100 mT we observe bound, mid-gap states at zero bias voltage. These bound states remain fixed to zero bias even when magnetic fields and gate voltages are changed over considerable ranges. Our observations support the hypothesis of Majorana fermions in nanowires coupled to superconductors.

id: 1204.2817
title: Three-parameter (two-sided) deformation of Heisenberg algebra
authors: A. M. Gavrilik, I. I. Kachurik
comments: 12 pages; v2: minor changes and few references added, accepted in Mod.Phys.Lett.A
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A, Vol. 27, No. 21 (2012) 1250114
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2817
abstract: A 3-parametric two-sided deformation of Heisenberg algebra (HA), with p,q-deformed commutator in the l.h.s. of basic defining relation and certain deformation of its r.h.s., is introduced and studied. The third deformation parameter \mu appears in an extra term in the r.h.s. as pre-factor of Hamiltonian. For this deformation of HA we find novel properties. Namely, we prove it is possible to realize this (p,q,\mu)-deformed HA by means of some deformed oscillator algebra. Also, we find the unusual property that the deforming factor \mu\ in the considered deformed HA inevitably depends explicitly on particle number operator N. Such a novel N-dependence is special for the two-sided deformation of HA treated jointly with its deformed oscillator realizations.

id: 1204.2819
title: Measuring entanglement entropy of a generic many-body system with a quantum switch
authors: Dmitry A. Abanin, Eugene Demler
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 020504 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2819
abstract: Entanglement entropy has become an important theoretical concept in condensed matter physics, because it provides a unique tool for characterizing quantum mechanical many-body phases and new kinds of quantum order. However, the experimental measurement of entanglement entropy in a many-body systems is widely believed to be unfeasible, owing to the nonlocal character of this quantity. Here, we propose a general method to measure the entanglement entropy. The method is based on a quantum switch (a two-level system) coupled to a composite system consisting of several copies of the original many-body system. The state of the switch controls how different parts of the composite system connect to each other. We show that, by studying the dynamics of the quantum switch only, the Renyi entanglement entropy of the many-body system can be extracted. We propose a possible design of the quantum switch, which can be realized in cold atomic systems. Our work provides a route towards testing the scaling of entanglement in critical systems, as well as a method for a direct experimental detection of topological order.

id: 1204.2834
title: Quantum Decoherence of the Central Spin in a Sparse System of Dipolar Coupled Spins
authors: Wayne M. Witzel, Malcolm S. Carroll, Lukasz Cywinski, S. Das Sarma
comments: 25 pages, 26 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 035452 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2834
abstract: The central spin decoherence problem has been researched for over 50 years in the context of both nuclear magnetic resonance and electron spin resonance. Until recently, theoretical models have employed phenomenological stochastic descriptions of the bath-induced noise. During the last few years, cluster expansion methods have provided a microscopic, quantum theory to study the spectral diffusion of a central spin. These methods have proven to be very accurate and efficient for problems of nuclear-induced electron spin decoherence in which hyperfine interactions with the central electron spin are much stronger than dipolar interactions among the nuclei. We provide an in-depth study of central spin decoherence for a canonical scale-invariant all-dipolar spin system. We show how cluster methods may be adapted to treat this problem in which central and bath spin interactions are of comparable strength. Our extensive numerical work shows that a properly modified cluster theory is convergent for this problem even as simple perturbative arguments begin to break down. By treating clusters in the presence of energy detunings due to the long-range (diagonal) dipolar interactions of the surrounding environment and carefully averaging the effects over different spin states, we find that the nontrivial flip-flop dynamics among the spins becomes effectively localized by disorder in the energy splittings of the spins. This localization effect allows for a robust calculation of the spin echo signal in a dipolarly coupled bath of spins of the same kind, while considering clusters of no more than 6 spins. We connect these microscopic calculation results to the existing stochastic models. We, furthermore, present calculations for a series of related problems of interest for candidate solid state quantum bits including donors and quantum dots in silicon as well as nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond.

id: 1204.2868
title: Approaching the Problem of Time with a Combined Semiclassical-Records-Histories Scheme
authors: Edward Anderson
comments: An improved version of the text, and with various further references. 25 pages, 4 figures
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29 235015 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2868
abstract: I approach the Problem of Time and other foundations of Quantum Cosmology using a combined histories, timeless and semiclassical approach. This approach is along the lines pursued by Halliwell. It involves the timeless probabilities for dynamical trajectories entering regions of configuration space, which are computed within the semiclassical regime. Moreover, the objects that Halliwell uses in this approach commute with the Hamiltonian constraint, H. This approach has not hitherto been considered for models that also possess nontrivial linear constraints, Lin. This paper carries this out for some concrete relational particle models (RPM's). If there is also commutation with Lin - the Kuchar observables condition - the constructed objects are Dirac observables. Moreover, this paper shows that the problem of Kuchar observables is explicitly resolved for 1- and 2-d RPM's. Then as a first route to Halliwell's approach for nontrivial linear constraints that is also a construction of Dirac observables, I consider theories for which Kuchar observables are formally known, giving the relational triangle as an example. As a second route, I apply an indirect method that generalizes both group-averaging and Barbour's best matching. For conceptual clarity, my study involves the simpler case of Halliwell 2003 sharp-edged window function. I leave the elsewise-improved softened case of Halliwell 2009 for a subsequent Paper II. Finally, I provide comments on Halliwell's approach and how well it fares as regards the various facets of the Problem of Time and as an implementation of QM propositions.

id: 1204.2907
title: Quantum Annealing: from Viewpoints of Statistical Physics, Condensed Matter Physics, and Computational Physics
authors: Shu Tanaka, Ryo Tamura
comments: 57pages, 15figures, to appear in "Lectures on Quantum Computing, Thermodynamics and Statistical Physics," Kinki University Series on Quantum Computing (World Scientific, 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2907
abstract: In this paper, we review some features of quantum annealing and related topics from viewpoints of statistical physics, condensed matter physics, and computational physics. We can obtain a better solution of optimization problems in many cases by using the quantum annealing. Actually the efficiency of the quantum annealing has been demonstrated for problems based on statistical physics. Then the quantum annealing has been expected to be an efficient and generic solver of optimization problems. Since many implementation methods of the quantum annealing have been developed and will be proposed in the future, theoretical frameworks of wide area of science and experimental technologies will be evolved through studies of the quantum annealing.

id: 1204.2918
title: The density maximum of He4 at the lambda point modeled by the stochastic quantum hydrodynamic analogy
authors: Piero Chiarelli
comments: 
journal: Int. Arch. 1(3) (2012) 1-14
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2918
abstract: The lambda point in liquid He4 is a well established phenomenon acknowledged as an example of Bose-Einstain condensation. This is generally accepted, but there are serious discrepancies between the theory and experimental results, namely the lower value of the transition temperature Tl and the negative value of dTl /dP. These discrepancies can be explained in term of the quantum stochastic hydrodynamic analogy (QSHA). The QSHA shows that at the He4I\textregisteredHe4II superfluid transition the quantum coherence length lc becomes of order of the distance up to which the wave function of a couple of He4 atoms extends itself. In this case, the He42 state is quantum and the quantum pseudo-potential brings a repulsive interaction that leads to the negative dTl /dP behavior. This fact overcomes the difficulty to explain the phenomenon by introducing a Hamiltonian inter-atomic repulsive potential that would obstacle the gas-liquid transition.

id: 1204.2968
title: Non-linear magneto-optic and self polarization rotation by superposition of states
authors: S. Pradhan, A. Kani, Harshawardhan Wanare, R. Behera, A.K. Das
comments: 13 pages + 5 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2968
abstract: We report the observation of enhanced magneto-optic rotation as the coherent superposition of different hyperfine states is established in an atomic sample. The polarization rotation near the two photon Raman resonance condition appears to have an analogous characteristic to the well established Faraday rotation observed in the vicinity of a single photon resonance, however it contains sharp features arising from coherent population trapping state. The profile of the two photon rotation signal exhibits interesting features for slightly imbalanced circular polarization component of the laser field as well as for on and away from the single photon resonance. The investigation can be used to explore the effect of superposition states generated by coherent population trapping on optical activity. A complete density matrix based numerical simulation that consistently captures all the relevant features of the experiment is presented.

id: 1204.3023
title: Extremal spacings between eigenphases of random unitary matrices and their tensor products
authors: Marek Smaczynski, Tomasz Tkocz, Marek Kus, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 052902 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3023
abstract: Extremal spacings between eigenvalues of random unitary matrices of size N pertaining to circular ensembles are investigated. Explicit probability distributions for the minimal spacing for various ensembles are derived for N = 4. We study ensembles of tensor product of k random unitary matrices of size n which describe independent evolution of a composite quantum system consisting of k subsystems. In the asymptotic case, as the total dimension N = n^k becomes large, the nearest neighbor distribution P(s) becomes Poissonian, but statistics of extreme spacings P(s_min) and P(s_max) reveal certain deviations from the Poissonian behavior.

id: 1204.3067
title: Exact expressions for the intercepts of r-particle momentum correlation functions in ¦Ì-Bose gas model
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, Yu.A. Mishchenko
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures; v2: minor changes, one reference added, published in PLA
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376, No.36 (2012), 2484-2489
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3067
abstract: Recently, the deformed \mu-Bose gas model based on so called \mu-deformed oscillators was proposed. For that model, the intercepts of r-particle momentum correlation functions (correlation functions at coinciding momenta of particles) were treated for r=2,3, within certain order of approximation in \mu. In this work, we derive for \mu-Bose gas model the {\it exact} expressions for r-particle correlation function intercepts, for all r, through Lerch transcendent and find their asymptotics (as functions of \mu). For 2-, 3-particle intercepts and deformed distribution function <a^\dag_k a_k> the dependence on particles momentum is presented graphically.

id: 1204.3109
title: Exposed positive maps in M_4(C)
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Gniewomir Sarbicki
comments: 7 pages
journal: Open Sys. Inf. Dyn. 19 (2012) 1250017
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3109
abstract: It is shown that the family of so called Breuer-Hall maps in M_4(C) possesses strong spanning property and hence they are exposed in the convex cone of positive maps in M_4(C)

id: 1204.3146
title: Gradient of the Casimir force between Au surfaces of a sphere and a plate measured using atomic force microscope in a frequency shift technique
authors: C.-C. Chang, A. A. Banishev, R. Castillo-Garza, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 35 pages, 14 figures, 1 table; to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.85, 165443-(1-17) (2012)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3146
abstract: We present measurement results for the gradient of the Casimir force between an Au-coated sphere and an Au-coated plate obtained by means of an atomic force microscope operated in a frequency shift technique. This experiment was performed at a pressure of 3x10^{-8} Torr with hollow glass sphere of 41.3 mcm radius. Special attention is paid to electrostatic calibrations including the problem of electrostatic patches. All calibration parameters are shown to be separation-independent after the corrections for mechanical drift are included. The gradient of the Casimir force was measured in two ways with applied compensating voltage to the plate and with different applied voltages and subsequent subtraction of electric forces. The obtained mean gradients are shown to be in mutual agreement and in agreement with previous experiments performed using a micromachined oscillator. The obtained data are compared with theoretical predictions of the Lifshitz theory including corrections beyond the proximity force approximation. An independent comparison with no fitting parameters demonstrated that the Drude model approach is excluded by the data at a 67% confidence level over the separation region from 235 to 420 nm. The theoretical approach using the generalized plasma-like model is shown to be consistent with the data over the entire measurement range. Corrections due to the nonlinearity of oscillator are calculated and the application region of the linear regime is determined. A conclusion is made that the results of several performed experiments call for a thorough analysis of the basics of the theory of dispersion forces.

id: 1204.3188
title: Characterization of informational completeness for covariant phase space observables
authors: Jukka Kiukas, Pekka Lahti, Jussi Schultz, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 102103 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3188
abstract: A covariant phase space observable is uniquely characterized by a positive operator of trace one and, in turn, by the Fourier-Weyl transform of this operator. We study three properties of such observables, and characterize them in terms of the zero set of this transform. The first is informational completeness, for which it is necessary and sufficient that the zero set has dense complement. The second is a version of informational completeness for the Hilbert-Schmidt class, equivalent to the zero set being of measure zero, and the third, known as regularity, is equivalent to the zero set being empty. We give examples demonstrating that all three conditions are distinct. The three conditions are the special cases for $p=1,2,\infty$ of a more general notion of $p$-regularity defined as the norm density of the span of translates of the operator in the Schatten-$p$ class. We show that the relation between zero sets and $p$-regularity can be mapped completely to the corresponding relation for functions in classical harmonic analysis.

id: 1204.3268
title: Performance of a 229 Thorium solid-state nuclear clock
authors: G. A. Kazakov, A. N. Litvinov, V. I. Romanenko, L. P. Yatsenko, A. V. Romanenko, M. Schreitl, G. Winkler, T. Schumm
comments: 28 pages, 9 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 083019 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3268
abstract: The 7.8 eV nuclear isomer transition in 229 Thorium has been suggested as an etalon transition in a new type of optical frequency standard. Here we discuss the construction of a "solid-state nuclear clock" from Thorium nuclei implanted into single crystals transparent in the vacuum ultraviolet range. We investigate crystal-induced line shifts and broadening effects for the specific system of Calcium fluoride. At liquid Nitrogen temperatures, the clock performance will be limited by decoherence due to magnetic coupling of the Thorium nucleus to neighboring nuclear moments, ruling out the commonly used Rabi or Ramsey interrogation schemes. We propose a clock stabilization based on counting of flourescence photons and present optimized operation parameters. Taking advantage of the high number of quantum oscillators under continuous interrogation, a fractional instability level of 10^{-19} might be reached within the solid-state approach.

id: 1204.3325
title: Interplay of superradiance and disorder in the Anderson Model
authors: G. L. Celardo, A. Biella, L. Kaplan, F. Borgonovi
comments: 7 pages, submitted to the special issue on "Physics with non-Hermitian operators: Theory and Experiment" of the journal "Fortschritte der Physik - Progress of Physics"
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 61, No. 2/3, 250 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3325
abstract: Using a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian approach to open systems, we study the interplay of disorder and superradiance in a one-dimensional Anderson model. Analyzing the complex eigenvalues of the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian, a transition to a superradiant regime is shown to occur. As an effect of openness the structure of eigenstates undergoes a strong change in the superradiant regime: we show that the sensitivity to disorder of the superradiant and the subradiant subspaces is very different; superradiant states remain delocalized as disorder increases, while subradiant states are sensitive to the degree of disorder.

id: 1204.3326
title: Majorana qubit decoherence by quasiparticle poisoning
authors: Diego Rainis, Daniel Loss
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 174533 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3326
abstract: We consider the problem of quasiparticle poisoning in a nanowire-based realization of a Majorana qubit, where a spin-orbit-coupled semiconducting wire is placed on top of a (bulk) superconductor. By making use of recent experimental data exhibiting evidence of a low-temperature residual non-equilibrium quasiparticle population in superconductors, we show by means of analytical and numerical calculations that the dephasing time due to the tunneling of quasiparticles into the nanowire may be problematically short to allow for qubit manipulation.

id: 1204.3346
title: A Matter of Matter and Antimatter
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: 22 pages, including 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3346
abstract: A discrete quantum gravity model given by a quantum sequential growth process (QSGP) is considered. The QSGP describes the growth of causal sets (causets) one element at a time in discrete steps. It is shown that the set $\pscript$ of causets can be partitioned into three subsets $\pscript = (\rmant)\cup (\rmmix)\cup (\rmmat)$ where $\rmant$ is the set of pure antimatter causets, $\rmmat$ the set of pure matter causets and $\rmmix$ the set of mixed matter-antimatter causets. We observe that there is an asymmetry between $\rmant$ and $\rmmat$ which may explain the matter-antimatter asymmetry of our physical universe. This classification of causets extends to the set of paths $\Omega$ in $\pscript$ to obtain $\Omega =\Omega ^{\rmant}\cup\Omega ^{\rmmix}\cup\Omega ^{\rmmat}$. We introduce a further classification $\Omega ^{\rmmix}=\Omega_{\rmm}^{\rmmix}\cup\Omega_{\rma}^{\rmmix}$ into matter-antimatter parts. Approximate classical probabilities and quantum propensities for these various classifications are considered. Some conjectures and unsolved problems are presented.

id: 1204.3347
title: Polarization Tensors for the fuzzy Grassmannians $Gr_{2;n}^F$ and Grassmannian harmonics on $Gr_{2;n}$
authors: Idrish Huet, Sean Murray
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3347
abstract: We explicitly construct the eigenfunctions of the Laplacian for the fuzzy Grassmannian spaces $Gr_{2;n}^F$. We calculate the spectrum and find it be a truncation of the continuum case. As a byproduct of our approach we find a novel expression for the Grassmannian harmonics in terms of Plucker coordinates which can be interpreted as free Schrodinger particle wave functions on $Gr_{2;n}$.

id: 1204.3383
title: Analytical Solutions of Schr?dinger Equation for the diatomic molecular potentials with any angular momentum
authors: Huseyin Akcay, Ramazan Sever
comments: 21 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 1973(2012
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3383
abstract: Analytical solutions of the Schrodinger equation are obtained for some diatomic molecular potentials with any angular momentum. The energy eigenvalues and wave functions are calculated exactly. The asymptotic form of the equation is also considered. Algebraic method is used in the calculations.

id: 1204.3497
title: Renormalization and vacuum energy for an interacting scalar field in a ¦Ä-function potential
authors: David J. Toms
comments: To appear in the special issue of J. Phys. A to honour J. S. Dowker
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3497
abstract: We study a self-interacting scalar field theory in the presence of a \delta-function background potential. The role of surface interactions in obtaining a renormalizable theory is stressed and demonstrated by a two-loop calculation. The necessary counterterms are evaluated by adopting dimensional regularization and the background field method. We also calculate the effective potential for a complex scalar field in a non-simply connected spacetime in the presence of a \delta-function potential. The effective potential is evaluated as a function of an arbitrary phase factor associated with the choice of boundary conditions in the non-simply connected spacetime. We obtain asymptotic expansions of the results for both large and small \delta-function strengths, and stress how the non-analytic nature of the small strength result vitiates any analysis based on standard weak field perturbation theory.

id: 1204.3572
title: A Discrete Two-Dimensional Model of a Loaded Cantilever Influenced by Time-Dependent Forces
authors: Gennady P. Berman, Vyacheslav N. Gorshkov, Vasily V. Kuzmenko, Umar Mohideen
comments: Pages 15, Figures 12
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3572
abstract: We developed a discrete two-dimensional model of a cantilever which incorporates the effects of inhomogeneity, the geometry of an attached particle, and the influence of external time-dependent forces. We provide a comparison between the solutions for our discrete model and its continuous limit. The rotational-vibrational mode is studied in detail. The results of numerical simulations demonstrate usefulness of our model for many applications when a cantilever has a complicated geometry and is affected by time-depended and distributed external forces.

id: 1204.3653
title: s-Parameterized Fock Space Projectors Gained via General Ordering Theorem
authors: F. Sh?handeh, M. R. Bazrafkan M. Ashrafi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3653
abstract: Employing the general ordering theorem, operational methods and the incomplete 2-dimensional Hermite polynomials we have derived the t-ordered expansion of the Fock space projectors. Using the result, a new integration formula regarding incomplete 2-dimensional Hermite polynomials is obtained.

id: 1204.3692
title: Probing Cooper Pairs with Franson Interferometry
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 115429 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3692
abstract: A setup based on the Franson optical interferometer is analyzed, which allows us to detect the coherence properties of Cooper pairs emerging via tunneling from a superconductor in contact with two one-dimensional channels. By tuning the system parameters we show that both the internal coherence of the emitted Cooper pairs, which is proportional to Pippard's length, and the de Broglie wavelength of their center-of-mass motion can be measured via current-current correlation measurements.

id: 1204.3723
title: Zero Sound Propagation in Femto-Scale Quantum Liquids
authors: Yoritaka Iwata
comments: Review Article to appear in J. Mod. Phys. (accepted). Some revisions are to be made on the publish version
journal: J. Mod. Phys. 3 (2012) 476
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3723
abstract: Charge equilibration has been recognized as a dominant process at the early stage of low-energy heavy-ion reactions. The production of exotic nuclei is suppressed under the appearance of charge equilibration, in which the proton-neutron ratios of the final reaction products are inevitably averaged. Therefore charge equilibration plays one of the most crucial roles in the synthesis of chemical elements. Focusing on how and when the charge equilibration takes place, the zero-sound propagation in femto-scale quantum liquids is explained.

id: 1204.3770
title: Quantum Electrodynamics of Nanosystems
authors: Samina S. Masood
comments: 
journal: NSTI-Nanotech 2010, Vol 1, Carbon Nano Structures & Devices 249 (2010)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3770
abstract: Quantum description of mulitiparticle nano-systems is studied in a hot and dense electromagnetic medium. We use renormalization techniques of quantum field theory to show that the electromagnetic properties like electric permittivity and magnetic permeability depend on the temperature and density of the media. Casimir force also depends upon the physical properties of the medium and becomes a function of these parameters within the nano-systems. We discuss the effect of the Casimir force on the nanosystems in terms of temperature and density of the system. We present carbon nanotubes and biomolecules as examples.

id: 1204.3847
title: Discrete eigenproblems
authors: J.S.Dowker
comments: 20 pages. The zero mode problem is now briefly considered. References added and typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3847
abstract: Schrodinger eigenproblems on a discrete interval are further investigated with special attention given to test cases such as the linear and Rosen--Morse potentials. In the former case it is shown that the characteristic function determining the eigenvalues is a Lommel polynomial and considerable space is devoted to these objects. For example it is shown that the continuum limit of the determinant is obtained by a transitional limit of the Lommel polynomials for large order and argument. Numerical comparisons between discrete approximations and (known) continuum values for the ratio of functional determinants with and without the potential are made and show good agreement, even for small numbers of vertices. The zero mode problem is also briefly dealt with.

id: 1204.3856
title: Short note on the Rabi model
authors: K. Ziegler
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 452001
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3856
abstract: The spectral density of the Rabi model is calculated exactly within a continued fraction approach. It is shown that the method yields a convergent solution.

id: 1204.3871
title: A nanomechanical resonator coupled linearly via its momentum to a quantum point contact
authors: L. L. Benatov, M. P. Blencowe
comments: 38 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 075313 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3871
abstract: We use a Born-Markov approximated master equation approach to study the symmetrized-in-frequency current noise spectrum and the oscillator steady state of a nanoelectromechanical system where a nanoscale resonator is coupled linearly via its momentum to a quantum point contact (QPC). Our current noise spectra exhibit clear signatures of the quantum correlations between the QPC current and the back-action force on the oscillator at a value of the relative tunneling phase (\eta = -\pi/2) where such correlations are expected to be maximized. We also show that the steady state of the oscillator obeys a classical Fokker-Planck equation, but can experience thermomechanical noise squeezing in the presence of a momentum-coupled detector bath and a position-coupled environmental bath. Besides, the full master equation clearly shows that half of the detector back-action is correlated with electron tunneling, indicating a departure from the model of the detector as an effective bath and suggesting that a future calculation valid at lower bias voltage, stronger tunneling and/or stronger coupling might reveal interesting quantum effects in the oscillator dynamics.

id: 1204.3892
title: The Linguistic Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Shiro Ishikawa
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3892
abstract: About twenty years ago, we proposed the mathematical formulation of Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, and further, we concluded that Heisenberg's uncertainty principle and EPR-paradox are not contradictory. This is true, however we now think that we should have argued about it under a certain firm interpretation of quantum mechanics. Recently we proposed the linguistic quantum interpretation (called quantum and classical measurement theory), which was characterized as a kind of metaphysical and linguistic turn of the Copenhagen interpretation. This turn from physics to language does not only extend quantum theory to classical systems but also yield the quantum mechanical world view (i.e., the philosophy of quantum mechanics, in other words, quantum philosophy). In fact, we can consider that traditional philosophies have progressed toward quantum philosophy. In this paper, we first review the linguistic quantum interpretation, and further, clarify the relation between EPR-paradox and Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. That is, the linguistic interpretation says that EPR-paradox is closely related to the fact that syllogism does not generally hold in quantum physics. This fact should be compared to the non-locality of Bell's inequality.

id: 1204.3934
title: Matrix product states for critical spin chains: finite size scaling versus finite entanglement scaling
authors: B. Pirvu, G. Vidal, F. Verstraete, L. Tagliacozzo
comments: 18 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 075117 (2012) [16 pages]
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3934
abstract: We investigate the use of matrix product states (MPS) to approximate ground states of critical quantum spin chains with periodic boundary conditions (PBC). We identify two regimes in the (N,D) parameter plane, where N is the size of the spin chain and D is the dimension of the MPS matrices. In the first regime MPS can be used to perform finite size scaling (FSS). In the complementary regime the MPS simulations show instead the clear signature of finite entanglement scaling (FES). In the thermodynamic limit (or large N limit), only MPS in the FSS regime maintain a finite overlap with the exact ground state. This observation has implications on how to correctly perform FSS with MPS, as well as on the performance of recent MPS algorithms for systems with PBC. It also gives clear evidence that critical models can actually be simulated very well with MPS by using the right scaling relations; in the appendix, we give an alternative derivation of the result of Pollmann et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 255701 (2009)] relating the bond dimension of the MPS to an effective correlation length.

id: 1204.3974
title: Creation, manipulation and detection of Majorana fermions with cold atoms in optical lattice
authors: Feng Mei, Chuan-Jia Shan, Xun-Li Feng, Shi-Liang Zhu, Zhi-Ming Zhang, L. C. Kwek, D. Wilkowski, C. H. Oh
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3974
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to simulate the transverse field Ising model with cold atoms trapped in one-dimensional optical lattice. Majorana fermions are created at the ends of the optical lattice segment in topological phase. By controlling the addressing lasers, one can move, fuse and braid them. We also show that the non-Abelian braiding statistics of Majorana fermions can be demonstrated unambiguously through the construction of two braiding operations and distinguishing the resulting two output orthogonal collective spin states. A nice feature of the scheme is that the strong fluorescence provided by the collective spin state can be readily detected in experiment.

id: 1204.3986
title: Towards the Notion of an Abstract Quantum Automaton
authors: Mizal Alobaidi, Andriy Batyiv, Grygoriy Zholtkevych
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Proc. ICTERI 2012 CEUR-WS 848(2012) 17-32
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.3986
abstract: The main goal of this paper is to give a rigorous mathematical description of systems for processing quantum information. To do it authors consider abstract state machines as models of classical computational systems. This class of machines is refined by introducing constrains on a state structure, namely, it is assumed that state of computational process has two components: a control unit state and a memory state. Then authors modify the class of models by substituting the deterministic evolutionary mechanism for a stochastic evolutionary mechanism. This approach can be generalized to the quantum case: one can replace transformations of a classical memory with quantum operations on a quantum memory. Hence the authors come to the need to construct a mathematical model of an operation on the quantum memory. It leads them to the notion of an abstract quantum automaton. Further the authors demonstrate that a quantum teleportation process is described as evolutionary process for some abstract quantum automaton.

id: 1204.4006
title: "Quantization" of higher hamiltonian analogues of the Painleve I and Painleve II equations with two degrees of freedom
authors: Bulat Suleimanov
comments: 13 pages, in Russian
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4006
abstract: We construct a solution of an analog of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the Hamiltonian $ H_I (z, t, q_1, q_2, p_1, p_2) $ corresponding to the second equation $P_1^2$ in the Painleve I hierarchy. This solution is produced by an explicit change of variables from a solution of the linear equations whose compatibility condition is the ordinary differential equation $P_1^2$ with respect to $z$. This solution also satisfies an analog of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation corresponding to the Hamiltonian $ H_{II} (z, t, q_1, q_2, p_1, p_2) $ of Hamiltonian system with respect to $t$ which is compatible with $P_1^2$. A similar situation occurs for the $P_2^2$ equation in the Painleve II hierarchy.

id: 1204.4029
title: Persistence of coherent quantum dynamics at strong dissipation
authors: Denis Kast, Joachim Ankerhold
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 010402 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4029
abstract: The quantum dynamics of a two state system coupled to a bosonic reservoir with sub-Ohmic spectral density is investigated for strong friction. Numerically exact path integral Monte Carlo methods reveal that in contrast to conventional expectations, coherent dynamics never turns into incoherent decay for a broad class of spectral distributions. Coherences associated with substantial system-reservoir entanglement exist in non-equilibrium even when strong dissipation makes the thermodynamic state of the system to behave essentially classical. This may be of relevance for current experiments with nanoscale devices and bio-molecular aggregates.

id: 1204.4053
title: Terahertz lasing from intersubband polariton-polariton scattering in asymmetric quantum wells
authors: Simone De Liberato, Cristiano Ciuti, Chris C. Phillips
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 241304(R) (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4053
abstract: Electric dipole transitions between different cavity polariton branches or between dressed atomic states with the same excitation number are strictly forbidden in centro-symmetric systems. For doped quantum wells in semiconductor microcavities, the strong coupling between an intersubband transition in the conduction band and a cavity mode produces two branches of intersubband cavity polaritons, whose normal-mode energy splitting is tunable and can be in the terahertz region. Here, we show that, by using asymmetric quantum wells, it is possible to have allowed dipolar transitions between different polaritonic branches, leading to the emission of terahertz photons. We present a quantum field theory for such a system and predict that high-efficiency, widely tunable terahertz lasing can be obtained.

id: 1204.4081
title: Equation of state for the one-dimensional attractive ¦Ä-potential Bose gas in the weak-coupling regime
authors: Tsubasa Ichikawa, Izumi Tsutsui, Nobuhiro Yonezawa
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86 (2012) 015602
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4081
abstract: Approximated formulae for real quasi-momentum and the associated energy spectrum are presented for one-dimensional Bose gas with weak attractive contact interactions. On the basis of the energy spectrum, we obtain the equation of state in the high temperature region, which is found to be the van der Waals equation without volume correction.

id: 1204.4102
title: Twin matter waves for interferometry beyond the classical limit
authors: Bernd L¨¹cke, Manuel Scherer, Jens Kruse, Luca Pezz¨¦, Frank Deuretzbacher, Phillip Hyllus, Oliver Topic, Jan Peise, Wolfgang Ertmer, Jan Arlt, Luis Santos, Augusto Smerzi, Carsten Klempt
comments: main text plus supporting online material: 12 pages 9 figures
journal: Science 334, 773-776 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4102
abstract: Interferometers with atomic ensembles constitute an integral part of modern precision metrology. However, these interferometers are fundamentally restricted by the shot noise limit, which can only be overcome by creating quantum entanglement among the atoms. We used spin dynamics in Bose-Einstein condensates to create large ensembles of up to $10^4$ pair-correlated atoms with an interferometric sensitivity $-1.61^{+0.98}_{-1.1}$ dB beyond the shot noise limit. Our proof-of-principle results point the way toward a new generation of atom interferometers.

id: 1204.4124
title: The Gaussian entropy of fermionic systems
authors: Tomislav Prokopec, Michael G. Schmidt, Jan Weenink
comments: 28 pages, 13 figures, updated to match published version
journal: Annals Phys. 327, 3138 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4124
abstract: We consider the entropy and decoherence in fermionic quantum systems. By making a Gaussian Ansatz for the density operator of a collection of fermions we study statistical 2-point correlators and express the entropy of a system fermion in terms of these correlators. In a simple case when a set of N thermalised environmental fermionic oscillators interacts bi-linearly with the system fermion we can study its time dependent entropy, which also represents a quantitative measure for decoherence. We then consider a relativistic fermionic quantum field theory and take a mass mixing term as a simple model for the Yukawa interaction. It turns out that even in this Gaussian approximation, the fermionic system decoheres quite effectively, such that in a large coupling and high temperature regime the system field approaches the temperature of the environmental fields.

id: 1204.4147
title: Controlling trapping potentials and stray electric fields in a microfabricated ion trap through design and compensation
authors: S. Charles Doret, Jason M. Amini, Kenneth Wright, Curtis Volin, Tyler Killian, Arkadas Ozakin, Douglas Denison, Harley Hayden, C.-S. Pai, Richart E. Slusher, Alexa W. Harter
comments: 17 pages (including references), 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 073012
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4147
abstract: Recent advances in quantum information processing with trapped ions have demonstrated the need for new ion trap architectures capable of holding and manipulating chains of many (>10) ions. Here we present the design and detailed characterization of a new linear trap, microfabricated with scalable complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) techniques, that is well-suited to this challenge. Forty-four individually controlled DC electrodes provide the many degrees of freedom required to construct anharmonic potential wells, shuttle ions, merge and split ion chains, precisely tune secular mode frequencies, and adjust the orientation of trap axes. Microfabricated capacitors on DC electrodes suppress radio-frequency pickup and excess micromotion, while a top-level ground layer simplifies modeling of electric fields and protects trap structures underneath. A localized aperture in the substrate provides access to the trapping region from an oven below, permitting deterministic loading of particular isotopic/elemental sequences via species-selective photoionization. The shapes of the aperture and radio-frequency electrodes are optimized to minimize perturbation of the trapping pseudopotential. Laboratory experiments verify simulated potentials and characterize trapping lifetimes, stray electric fields, and ion heating rates, while measurement and cancellation of spatially-varying stray electric fields permits the formation of nearly-equally spaced ion chains.

id: 1204.4149
title: Quantum phase transition in a multicomponent anyonic Lieb-Liniger model
authors: Raul A. Santos, Francis N. C. Paraan, Vladimir E. Korepin
comments: 6 pages, 2 PDF figures. Corrections, clarifications, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 045123 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4149
abstract: We study a one-dimensional multicomponent anyon model that reduces to a multicomponent Lieb-Liniger gas of impenetrable bosons (Tonks-Girardeau gas) for vanishing statistics parameter. At fixed component densities, the coordinate Bethe ansatz gives a family of quantum phase transitions at special values of the statistics parameter. We show that the ground state energy changes extensively between different phases. Special regimes are studied and a general classification for the transition points is given. An interpretation in terms of statistics of composite particles is proposed.

id: 1204.4160
title: On Shape Dependence and RG Flow of Entanglement Entropy
authors: Igor R. Klebanov, Tatsuma Nishioka, Silviu S. Pufu, Benjamin R. Safdi
comments: 30 pages, 8 figures; v2 refs added, minor improvements; v3 minor improvements, JHEP version
journal: JHEP 1207 (2012) 001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4160
abstract: We use a mix of field theoretic and holographic techniques to elucidate various properties of quantum entanglement entropy. In (3+1)-dimensional conformal field theory we study the divergent terms in the entropy when the entangling surface has a conical or a wedge singularity. In (2+1)-dimensional field theory with a mass gap we calculate, for an arbitrary smooth entanglement contour, the expansion of the entropy in inverse odd powers of the mass. We show that the shape-dependent coefficients that arise are even powers of the extrinsic curvature and its derivatives. A useful dual construction of a (2+1)-dimensional theory, which allows us to exhibit these properties, is provided by the CGLP background. This smooth warped throat solution of 11-dimensional supergravity describes renormalization group flow from a conformal field theory in the UV to a gapped one in the IR. For this flow we calculate the recently introduced renormalized entanglement entropy and confirm that it is a monotonic function.

id: 1204.4170
title: Quantum Field Lagrangian model for charge density waves in one-dimensional systems at finite temperature : A Thermofield Dynamics Approach
authors: Luiz Victorio Belvedere, Rubens Gurgel Amaral, Armando Flavio Rodrigues
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4170
abstract: We consider the Thermofield Dynamics bosonization to perform a field theory analysis of the effective Lagrangian model for incommensurate charge density waves (ICDW) in one-dimensional systems at finite temperature. The phonon degree of freedom is carryied by a dynamical phase field, contributing to the quantum dynamics and symmetry related features of the ICDW phenomenon. The electron chiral density and the phase of the phonon field condensate as a thermal soliton, carrying the symmetry under the linked electron-phonon $U_e^5(1) \otimes U_{ph}(1)$ global transformations. Using the Gell'Mann-Low formula for finite temperature, the perturbative series of the phonon thermal correlation function is obtained. Due to the electron-phonon charge selection rule we obtain for the thermal vacuum expectation value for the order parameter $<0 (\beta) |\Phi| 0 (\beta)> = 0$, in accordance with the cluster decomposition property of the corresponding correlation function. This reflects the fact that the quantum description of the ICDW corresponds to a local charge transport through the lattice which is accomplished by an electron-lattice energy redistribution, which accounts for a thermal dynamical mass gap generation. The electron-phonon coupling can be rewritten in terms of a mass operator for the "physical" fermion operator $\Psi$ such that $<0 (\beta)| \bar\Psi (x)\Psi (x) | 0 (\beta)> \neq 0$, without the breakdown of the linked electron-phonon symmetry.

id: 1204.4171
title: Time-Reversal-Invariant Hofstadter-Hubbard Model with Ultracold Fermions
authors: Daniel Cocks, Peter P. Orth, Stephan Rachel, Michael Buchhold, Karyn Le Hur, Walter Hofstetter
comments: 4+ pages, 4 figures; includes Supplemental Material (5 pages). Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 205303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4171
abstract: We consider the time-reversal-invariant Hofstadter-Hubbard model which can be realized in cold atom experiments. In these experiments, an additional staggered potential and an artificial Rashba--type spin-orbit coupling are available. Without interactions, the system exhibits various phases such as topological and normal insulator, metal as well as semi--metal phases with two or even more Dirac cones. Using a combination of real-space dynamical mean-field theory and analytical techniques, we discuss the effect of on-site interactions and determine the corresponding phase diagram. In particular, we investigate the semi--metal to antiferromagnetic insulator transition and the stability of different topological insulator phases in the presence of strong interactions. We compute spectral functions which allow us to study the edge states of the strongly correlated topological phases.

id: 1204.4179
title: Decoherence in the chemical compass: The role of decoherence for avian magnetoreception
authors: Markus Tiersch, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 25 pages; Contribution to a special theme issue on Decoherence in Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A, edited by Amit Hagar; published version, typos corrected
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 370, 4517 (2012)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4179
abstract: Contrary to the usual picture that decoherence destroys quantum properties and causes the quantum-to-classical transition, we argue that decoherence can also play a constructive role in driving quantum dynamics and amplifying its results to macroscopic scales. We support this perspective by presenting an example system from spin chemistry, which is also of importance for biological systems, e.g. in avian magnetoreception.

id: 1204.4215
title: A low phase noise microwave source for atomic spin squeezing experiments in 87Rb
authors: Zilong Chen, Justin G. Bohnet, Joshua M. Weiner, James K. Thompson
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 83, 044701 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4215
abstract: We describe and characterize a simple, low cost, low phase noise microwave source that operates near 6.800 GHz for agile, coherent manipulation of ensembles of 87Rb. Low phase noise is achieved by directly multiplying a low phase noise 100 MHz crystal to 6.8 GHz using a non-linear transmission line and filtering the output with custom band-pass filters. The fixed frequency signal is single sideband modulated with a direct digital synthesis frequency source to provide the desired phase, amplitude, and frequency control. Before modulation, the source has a single sideband phase noise near -140 dBc/Hz in the range of 10 kHz to 1 MHz offset from the carrier frequency and -130 dBc/Hz after modulation. The resulting source is estimated to contribute added spin-noise variance 16 dB below the quantum projection noise level during quantum nondemolition measurements of the clock transition in an ensemble 7x10^5 87Rb atoms.

id: 1204.4223
title: Improved Quantum LDPC Decoding Strategies For The Misidentified Quantum Depolarizing Channel
authors: Yixuan Xie, Jun Li, Robert Malaney, Jinhong Yuan
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:arXiv:1202.0357
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4223
abstract: The importance of the channel mismatch effect in determining the performance of quantum low-density parity-check codes has very recently been pointed out. It was found that an order of magnitude degradation in the qubit error performance was found even if optimal information on the channel identification was assumed. However, although such previous studies indicated the level of degradation in performance, no alternate decoding strategies had been proposed in order to reduce the degradation. In this work we fill this gap by proposing new decoding strategies that can significantly reduce the qubit error performance degradation by as much as 50%. Our new strategies for the quantum LDPC decoder are based on previous insights from classical LDPC decoders in mismatched wireless channels, where an asymmetry in performance is known as a function of the estimated bit-flip probability. We show how similar asymmetries carry over to the quantum depolarizing channel, and show with that when a weighted estimate of the depolarization coherence parameter to larger values is assumed we find significant performance improvement.

id: 1204.4255
title: XMDS2: Fast, scalable simulation of coupled stochastic partial differential equations
authors: Graham R. Dennis, Joseph J. Hope, Mattias T. Johnsson
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Comput. Phys. Commun. 184, 201-208 (2013)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4255
abstract: XMDS2 is a cross-platform, GPL-licensed, open source package for numerically integrating initial value problems that range from a single ordinary differential equation up to systems of coupled stochastic partial differential equations. The equations are described in a high-level XML-based script, and the package generates low-level optionally parallelised C++ code for the efficient solution of those equations. It combines the advantages of high-level simulations, namely fast and low-error development, with the speed, portability and scalability of hand-written code. XMDS2 is a complete redesign of the XMDS package, and features support for a much wider problem space while also producing faster code.

id: 1204.4326
title: Mapping of focused Laguerre-Gauss beams: The interplay between spin and orbital angular momentum and its dependence on detector characteristics
authors: Vasily V. Klimov, Daniel Bloch, Martial Ducloy, Jose Roberto Rios Leite
comments: accepted for publication (april 18, 2012) in Physicial Review A
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4326
abstract: We show that propagating optical fields bearing an axial symmetry are not truly hollow in spite of a null electric field on-axis. The result, obtained by general arguments based upon the vectorial nature of electromagnetic fields, is of particular significance in the situation of an extreme focusing, when the paraxial approximation no longer holds. The rapid spatial variations of fields with a "complicated" spatial structure are extensively analyzed in the general case and for a Laguerre-Gauss beam 2 as well, notably for beams bearing a |l| = 2 orbital angular momentum for which a magnetic field and a gradient of the electric field are present on-axis. We thus analyze the behavior of a atomic size light-detector, sensitive as well to quadrupole electric transitions and to magnetic dipole transitions, and apply it to the case of Laguerre-Gauss beam. We detail how the mapping of such a beam depends on the nature and on the specific orientation of the detector. We show also that the interplay of mixing of polarization and topological charge, respectively associated to spin and orbital momentum when the paraxial approximation holds, modifies the apparent size of the beam in the focal plane. This even leads to a breaking of the cylindrical symmetry in the case of a linearly polarized transverse electric field.

id: 1204.4354
title: Magic wavelengths for lattice trapped Rubidium four-level active optical clock
authors: Xiaorun Zang, Tonggang Zhang, Jingbiao Chen
comments: 5 pages
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. Vol. 29, No. 9 (2012) 090601
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4354
abstract: After pumped from $5s_{1/2}$ ground state to $6p_{1/2}$ state, the population inversion between $6s_{1/2}$ and $5p_{1/2,3/2}$ will be established for Rubidium four-level active optical clock. In this paper, we calculate AC Stark shift due to lattice trapping laser which dominates the frequency shift of clock transition in lattice trapped Rubidium four-level active optical clock. Several magic wavelengths are found that can form desired optical lattice trapping potential. By choosing a proper intensity and linewidth of trapping laser, the fractional frequency uncertainty of clock transition due to AC Stark shift of trapping laser, is estimated to be below 10^-18

id: 1204.4379
title: Computing Multiplicities of Lie Group Representations
authors: Matthias Christandl, Brent Doran, Michael Walter
comments: 10 pages
journal: Proceedings of 2012 IEEE 53rd Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS'12), p. 639-648
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4379
abstract: For fixed compact connected Lie groups H \subseteq G, we provide a polynomial time algorithm to compute the multiplicity of a given irreducible representation of H in the restriction of an irreducible representation of G. Our algorithm is based on a finite difference formula which makes the multiplicities amenable to Barvinok's algorithm for counting integral points in polytopes. The Kronecker coefficients of the symmetric group, which can be seen to be a special case of such multiplicities, play an important role in the geometric complexity theory approach to the P vs. NP problem. Whereas their computation is known to be #P-hard for Young diagrams with an arbitrary number of rows, our algorithm computes them in polynomial time if the number of rows is bounded. We complement our work by showing that information on the asymptotic growth rates of multiplicities in the coordinate rings of orbit closures does not directly lead to new complexity-theoretic obstructions beyond what can be obtained from the moment polytopes of the orbit closures. Non-asymptotic information on the multiplicities, such as provided by our algorithm, may therefore be essential in order to find obstructions in geometric complexity theory.

id: 1204.4385
title: Active optical clock based on four-level quantum system
authors: Tonggang Zhang, Yanfei Wang, Xiaorun Zang, Wei Zhuang, Jingbiao Chen
comments: 5 pages
journal: Chin. Sci. Bull. 58, 2033-2038(2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4385
abstract: Active optical clock, a new conception of atomic clock, has been proposed recently. In this report, we propose a scheme of active optical clock based on four-level quantum system. The final accuracy and stability of two-level quantum system are limited by second-order Doppler shift of thermal atomic beam. To three-level quantum system, they are mainly limited by light shift of pumping laser field. These limitations can be avoided effectively by applying the scheme proposed here. Rubidium atom four-level quantum system, as a typical example, is discussed in this paper. The population inversion between $6S_{1/2}$ and $5P_{3/2}$ states can be built up at a time scale of $10^{-6}$s. With the mechanism of active optical clock, in which the cavity mode linewidth is much wider than that of the laser gain profile, it can output a laser with quantum-limited linewidth narrower than 1 Hz in theory. An experimental configuration is designed to realize this active optical clock.

id: 1204.4394
title: Ultracold atoms and the Functional Renormalization Group
authors: Igor Boettcher, Jan M. Pawlowski, Sebastian Diehl
comments: 73 pages, 32 figures. Lecture notes for the 49th Schladming Winter School `Physics at all scales: The Renormalization Group' (to appear in the proceedings)
journal: Nucl.Phys.Proc.Suppl. 228 (2012) 63-135
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4394
abstract: We give a self-contained introduction to the physics of ultracold atoms using functional integral techniques. Based on a consideration of the relevant length scales, we derive the universal effective low energy Hamiltonian describing ultracold alkali atoms. We then introduce the concept of the effective action, which generalizes the classical action principle to full quantum status and provides an intuitive and versatile tool for practical calculations. This framework is applied to weakly interacting degenerate bosons and fermions in the spatial continuum. In particular, we discuss the related BEC and BCS quantum condensation mechanisms. We then turn to the BCS-BEC crossover, which interpolates between both phenomena, and which is realized experimentally in the vicinity of a Feshbach resonance. For its description, we introduce the Functional Renormalization Group approach. After a general discussion of the method in the cold atoms context, we present a detailed and pedagogical application to the crossover problem. This not only provides the physical mechanism underlying this phenomenon. More generally, it also reveals how the renormalization group can be used as a tool to capture physics at all scales, from few-body scattering on microscopic scales, through the finite temperature phase diagram governed by many-body length scales, up to critical phenomena dictating long distance physics at the phase transition. The presentation aims to equip students at the beginning PhD level with knowledge on key physical phenomena and flexible tools for their description, and should enable to embark upon practical calculations in this field.

id: 1204.4461
title: Quantum Size Effects on the Chemical Sensing Performance of Two-Dimensional Semiconductors
authors: Junghyo Nah, S. Bala Kumar, Hui Fang, Yu-Ze Chen, Elena Plis, Yu-Lun Chueh, Sanjay Krishna, Jing Guo, Ali Javey
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4461
abstract: We investigate the role of quantum confinement on the performance of gas sensors based on two-dimensional InAs membranes. Pd-decorated InAs membranes configured as H2 sensors are shown to exhibit strong thickness dependence, with ~100x enhancement in the sensor response as the thickness is reduced from 48 to 8 nm. Through detailed experiments and modeling, the thickness scaling trend is attributed to the quantization of electrons which favorably alters both the position and the transport properties of charge carriers; thus making them more susceptible to surface phenomena.

id: 1204.4506
title: An Einstein equation for discrete quantum gravity
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4506
abstract: The basic framework for this article is the causal set approach to discrete quantum gravity (DQG). Let $Q_n$ be the collection of causal sets with cardinality not greater than $n$ and let $K_n$ be the standard Hilbert space of complex-valued functions on $Q_n$. The formalism of DQG presents us with a decoherence matrix $D_n(x,y)$, $x,y\in Q_n$. There is a growth order in $Q_n$ and a path in $Q_n$ is a maximal chain relative to this order. We denote the set of paths in $Q_n$ by $\Omega_n$. For $\omega, \omega '\in\Omega_n$ we define a bidifference operator $\varbigtriangledown_{\omega, \omega '}^n$ on $K_n\otimes K_n$ that is covariant in the sense that $\varbigtriangledown_{\omega, \omega '}^n$ leaves $D_n$ stationary. We then define the curvature operator $\rscript_{\omega, \omega'}^n=\varbigtriangledown_{\omega, \omega '}^n-\varbigtriangledown_{\omega ', \omega}^n$. It turns out that $\rscript_{\omega, \omega '}^n$ naturally decomposes into two parts $\rscript_{\omega, \omega '}^n=\dscript_{\omega, \omega '}^n+\tscript_{\omega, \omega '}^n$ where $\dscript_{\omega, \omega '}^n$ is closely associated with $D_n$ and is called the metric operator while $\tscript_{\omega, \omega '}^n$ is called the mass-energy operator. This decomposition is a discrete analogue of Einstein's equation of general relativity. Our analogue may be useful in determining whether general relativity theory is a close approximation to DQG.

id: 1204.4522
title: Formation and structure of vortex lattices in a rotating double-well Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Linghua Wen, Xiaobing Luo
comments: 7 pages,5 figures,accepted for publication in Laser Physics Letters
journal: Laser Physics Letters 9, 618 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4522
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of vortex formation and the structure of vortex lattices in a Bose-Einstein condensate confined within a rotating double-well (DW) potential. The dynamical process is a formation process of "ghost" vortices, "hidden" vortices and "visible" vortices. The critical rotation frequency for the creation of visible vortex is indicated by a sudden jump in the angular momentum evolution and an inflexion in the energy evolution. Different visible vortex structures can be formed by ruling the rotation frequency. In particular, structural change of visible vortex patterns can be achieved by regulating the anisotropy parameter of the DW potential. This feature allows to flexibly control the distribution of angular momentum in macroscopic quantum systems and study the interplay among rotation, interparticle interaction and external potential in superfluids.

id: 1204.4559
title: Violation of the Leggett-Garg inequality in cognitive processes
authors: F. T. Arecchi, A. Farini, N. Megna
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a different interpretation of data
journal: 
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4559
abstract: The Leggett and Garg Inequality (LGI) is a test of the classical behaviour of an observed system, in the case of a single measurement channel monitored at different times. Here we report LGI violation in cognitive tasks consisting in the identification of mutually incompatible words with negligible semantic content; the violation is maximal at an inter-measurement time {\tau}LG around 2 sec, close to, but consistently lower than, the characteristic times associated with other, semantically rich, linguistic endeavors. The LGI violation persists over a time window of 1 sec around {\tau}LG; outside this window LGI is recovered.

id: 1204.4564
title: On the Minimum Degree up to Local Complementation: Bounds and Complexity
authors: J¨¦r?me Javelle, Mehdi Mhalla, Simon Perdrix
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4564
abstract: The local minimum degree of a graph is the minimum degree reached by means of a series of local complementations. In this paper, we investigate on this quantity which plays an important role in quantum computation and quantum error correcting codes. First, we show that the local minimum degree of the Paley graph of order p is greater than sqrt{p} - 3/2, which is, up to our knowledge, the highest known bound on an explicit family of graphs. Probabilistic methods allows us to derive the existence of an infinite number of graphs whose local minimum degree is linear in their order with constant 0.189 for graphs in general and 0.110 for bipartite graphs. As regards the computational complexity of the decision problem associated with the local minimum degree, we show that it is NP-complete and that there exists no k-approximation algorithm for this problem for any constant k unless P = NP.

id: 1204.4594
title: Free Running Single Photon Detection based on a negative feedback InGaAs APD
authors: Tommaso Lunghi, Claudio Barreiro, Olivier Guinnard, Raphael Houlmann, Xudong Jiang, Mark A. Itzler, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 18 pages, 15 figures. Submitted to Journal of Modern Optics
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4594
abstract: InGaAs/InP-based semiconductor avalanche photodiode are usually employed for single-photon counting at telecom wavelength. However they are affected by afterpulsing which limits the diode performance. Recently, Princeton Lightwave has commercialised a diode integrating monolithically a feedback resistor. This solution effectively quenches the avalanche and drastically reduces afterpulsing. Here, we report the development and characterization of a detector module based on this diode, implementing an active hold-off circuit which further reduces the afterpulsing and notably improves the detector performances. We demonstrate free-running operation with 600 Hz dark count rate at 10% detection efficiency. We also improved the standard double-window technique for the afterpulsing characterization. Our algorithm implemented by a FPGA allows to put the APD in a well-defined initial condition and to measure the impact of the higher order afterpulses.

id: 1204.4599
title: Generation of families of spectra in PT-symmetric quantum mechanics and scalar bosonic field theory
authors: Steffen Schmidt, S. P. Klevansky
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4599
abstract: This paper explains the systematics of the generation of families of spectra for the PT-symmetric quantum-mechanical Hamiltonians $H=p^2+x^2(ix)^\epsilon$, $H=p^2+(x^2)^\delta$, and $H=p^2-(x^2)^\mu$. In addition, it contrasts the results obtained with those found for a bosonic scalar field theory, in particular in one dimension, highlighting the similarities and differences to the quantum-mechanical case. It is shown that the number of families of spectra can be deduced from the number of noncontiguous pairs of Stokes' wedges that display PT-symmetry. To do so, simple arguments that use the WKB approximation are employed, and these imply that the eigenvalues are real. However, definitive results are in most cases presently only obtainable numerically, and not all eigenvalues in each family may be real. Within the approximations used, it is illustrated that the difference between the quantum-mechanical and the field-theoretical cases lies in the number of accessible regions in which the eigenfunctions decay exponentially. This paper reviews and implements well-known techniques in complex analysis and PT-symmetric quantum theory.

id: 1204.4614
title: A finite-dimensional quantum model for the stock market
authors: Liviu-Adrian Cotfas
comments: Same results in a simpler mathematical formalism
journal: Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications 392 (2013) 371-380
subjects: General Finance (q-fin.GN); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4614
abstract: We present a finite-dimensional version of the quantum model for the stock market proposed in [C. Zhang and L. Huang, A quantum model for the stock market, Physica A 389(2010) 5769]. Our approach is an attempt to make this model consistent with the discrete nature of the stock price and is based on the mathematical formalism used in the case of the quantum systems with finite-dimensional Hilbert space. The rate of return is a discrete variable corresponding to the coordinate in the case of quantum systems, and the operator of the conjugate variable describing the trend of the stock return is defined in terms of the finite Fourier transform. The stock return in equilibrium is described by a finite Gaussian function, and the time evolution of the stock price, directly related to the rate of return, is obtained by numerically solving a Schrodinger type equation.

id: 1204.4616
title: There are no particles, there are only fields
authors: Art Hobson
comments: To be published in Am. J. Phys
journal: Am. J. Phys. 81 (3), March 2013, 211-223
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4616
abstract: Quantum foundations are still unsettled, with mixed effects on science and society. By now it should be possible to obtain consensus on at least one issue: Are the fundamental constituents fields or particles? As this paper shows, experiment and theory imply unbounded fields, not bounded particles, are fundamental. This is especially clear for relativistic systems, implying it's also true of non-relativistic systems. Particles are epiphenomena arising from fields. Thus the Schroedinger field is a space-filling physical field whose value at any spatial point is the probability amplitude for an interaction to occur at that point. The field for an electron is the electron; each electron extends over both slits in the 2-slit experiment and spreads over the entire pattern; and quantum physics is about interactions of microscopic systems with the macroscopic world rather than just about measurements. It's important to clarify this issue because textbooks still teach a particles- and measurement-oriented interpretation that contributes to bewilderment among students and pseudoscience among the public. This article reviews classical and quantum fields, the 2-slit experiment, rigorous theorems showing particles are inconsistent with relativistic quantum theory, and several phenomena showing particles are incompatible with quantum field theories.

id: 1204.4634
title: Open Quantum System Approach to the Modeling of Spin Recombination Reactions
authors: M. Tiersch, U. E. Steiner, S. Popescu, H. J. Briegel
comments: 20 pages
journal: J. Phys. Chem. A 116 (16), 4020--4028 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4634
abstract: In theories of spin-dependent radical pair reactions, the time evolution of the radical pair, including the effect of the chemical kinetics, is described by a master equation in the Liouville formalism. For the description of the chemical kinetics, a number of possible reaction operators have been formulated in the literature. In this work, we present a framework that allows for a unified description of the various proposed mechanisms and the forms of reaction operators for the spin-selective recombination processes. Based on the concept that master equations can be derived from a microscopic description of the spin system interacting with external degrees of freedom, it is possible to gain insight into the underlying microscopic processes and to develop a systematic approach towards determining the specific form of reaction operator in concrete scenarios.

id: 1204.4652
title: Volume element structure and roton-maxon-phonon excitations in superfluid helium beyond the Gross-Pitaevskii approximation
authors: Konstantin G. Zloshchastiev
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B (2012) 85: 273
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4652
abstract: We propose a theory which deals with the structure and interactions of volume elements in liquid helium II. The approach consists of two nested models linked via parametric space. The short-wavelength part describes the interior structure of the fluid element using a non-perturbative approach based on the logarithmic wave equation; it suggests the Gaussian-like behaviour of the element's interior density and interparticle interaction potential. The long-wavelength part is the quantum many-body theory of such elements which deals with their dynamics and interactions. Our approach leads to a unified description of the phonon, maxon and roton excitations, and has noteworthy agreement with experiment: with one essential parameter to fit we reproduce at high accuracy not only the roton minimum but also the neighboring local maximum as well as the sound velocity and structure factor.

id: 1204.4676
title: Nuclear Spin Relaxation of Very Dilute 3He impurities in Solid 4He
authors: S. S. Kim, C. Huan, L. Yin, J. S. Xia, D. Candela, N. S. Sullivan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4676
abstract: We report measurements of the nuclear spin-lattice and spin-spin relaxation times of very dilute 3He in solid 4He in the temperature range 0.01 \leq T \leq 0.5 K for densities where anomalies have been observed in torsional oscillator and shear modulus measurements. We compare the results with the values of the relaxation times reported by other observers for higher concentrations and the theory of Landesman that takes into account the elastic properties of the 4He lattice. A sharp increase in the magnitude of the nuclear spin-lattice relaxation times compared to the the classical Landesman theory is observed close to the temperatures where the torsional and shear modulus anomalies are observed. The NMR results suggest that the tunneling of 3He impurities in the atomic-scale elastic distortion is affected by the same processes that give rise to the macroscopic elastic dissipation anomalies.

id: 1204.4682
title: Bragg spectroscopic interferometer and quantum measurement-induced correlations in atomic Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: M. D. Lee, S. Rist, J. Ruostekoski
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 073057
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4682
abstract: We theoretically analyze the Bragg spectroscopic interferometer of two spatially separated atomic Bose-Einstein condensates that was experimentally realized by Saba et al. [Science 2005 v307 p1945] by continuously monitoring the relative phase evolution. Even though the atoms in the light-stimulated Bragg scattering interact with intense coherent laser beams, we show that the phase is created by quantum measurement-induced back-action on the homodyne photo-current of the lasers, opening possibilities for quantum-enhanced interferometric schemes. We identify two regimes of phase evolution: a running phase regime which was observed in the experiment of Saba et al., that is sensitive to an energy offset and suitable for an interferometer, and a trapped phase regime, that can be insensitive to applied forces and detrimental to interferometric applications.

id: 1204.4721
title: Optimal number of pigments in photosynthetic complexes
authors: Simon Jesenko, Marko Znidaric
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures; v2.: new appendix, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 093017 (2012)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4721
abstract: We study excitation energy transfer in a simple model of photosynthetic complex. The model, described by Lindblad equation, consists of pigments interacting via dipole-dipole interaction. Overlapping of pigments induces an on-site energy disorder, providing a mechanism for blocking the excitation transfer. Based on the average efficiency as well as robustness of random configurations of pigments, we calculate the optimal number of pigments that should be enclosed in a pigment-protein complex of a given size. The results suggest that a large fraction of pigment configurations are efficient as well as robust if the number of pigments is properly chosen. We compare optimal results of the model to the structure of pigment-protein complexes as found in nature, finding good agreement.

id: 1204.4728
title: Topological Invariant and Quantum Spin Models from Magnetic ¦Ð Fluxes in Correlated Topological Insulators
authors: F. F. Assaad, M. Bercx, M. Hohenadler
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 011015 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4728
abstract: The adiabatic insertion of a \pi flux into a quantum spin Hall insulator gives rise to localized spin and charge fluxon states. We demonstrate that \pi fluxes can be used in exact quantum Monte Carlo simulations to identify a correlated Z_2 topological insulator using the example of the Kane-Mele-Hubbard model. In the presence of repulsive interactions, a \pi flux gives rise to a Kramers doublet of spinon states with a Curie law signature in the magnetic susceptibility. Electronic correlations also provide a bosonic mode of magnetic excitons with tunable energy that act as exchange particles and mediate a dynamical interaction of adjustable range and strength between spinons. \pi fluxes can therefore be used to build models of interacting spins. This idea is applied to a three-spin ring and to one-dimensional spin chains. Due to the freedom to create almost arbitrary spin lattices, correlated topological insulators with \pi fluxes represent a novel kind of quantum simulator potentially useful for numerical simulations and experiments.

id: 1204.4732
title: Strong coupling of a spin qubit to a superconducting stripline cavity
authors: Xuedong Hu, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 035314 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4732
abstract: We study electron-spin-photon coupling in a single-spin double quantum dot embedded in a superconducting stripline cavity. With an external magnetic field, we show that either a spin-orbit interaction (for InAs) or an inhomogeneous magnetic field (for Si and GaAs) could produce a strong spin-photon coupling, with a coupling strength of the order of 1 MHz. With an isotopically purified Si double dot, which has a very long spin coherence time for the electron, it is possible to reach the strong-coupling limit between the spin and the cavity photon, as in cavity quantum electrodynamics. The coupling strength and relaxation rates are calculated based on parameters of existing devices, making this proposal experimentally feasible.

id: 1204.4796
title: New classes of spin chains from $(S\hat{O}_{(q)}(N)$, $S\hat{p}_{(q)}(N))$ Temperley-Lieb algebras: Data transmission and (q, N) parametrized entanglement entropies
authors: Amitabha Chakrabarti, Anirban Chakraborti, Esteban Guevara Hidalgo
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, REVTeX format
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 013517 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4796
abstract: A Temperley-Lieb algebra is extracted from the operator structure of a new class of $N^{2}\times N^{2}$ braid matrices presented and studied in previous papers and designated as $S\hat{O}_{(q)}(N)$, $S\hat{p}%_{(q)}(N)$ for the q-deformed orthogonal and symplectic cases respectively. Spin chain Hamiltonians are derived from such braid matrices and the corresponding chains are studied. Time evolutions of the chains and the possibility of transition of data encoded in the parameters of mixed states from one end to the other are analyzed. The entanglement entropies $% S(q,N)$ of eigenstates of the crucial operator, namely the q-dependent $% N^{2}\times N^{2}$ projector $P_{0}$ appearing in the corresponding Hamiltonian are obtained. Study of entanglements generated under the actions of \ $S\hat{O}(N)$, $S\hat{p}(N)$ braid operators, unitarized with imaginary rapidities is presented as a perspective.

id: 1204.4845
title: Quantum Model Theory (QMod): Modeling Contextual Emergent Entangled Interfering Entities
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 1 figure
journal: Quantum Interaction. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 7620, pp 126-137, 2012
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4845
abstract: In this paper we present 'Quantum Model Theory' (QMod), a theory we developed to model entities that entail the typical quantum effects of 'contextuality', 'superposition', 'interference', 'entanglement' and 'emergence'. The aim of QMod is to put forward a theoretical framework that is more general than standard quantum mechanics, in the sense that, for its complex version it only uses this quantum calculus locally, i.e. for each context corresponding to a measurement, and for its real version it does not need the property of 'linearity of the set of states' to model the quantum effect. In this sense, QMod is a generalization of quantum mechanics, similar to how the general relativity manifold mathematical formalism is a generalization of special relativity. We prove by means of a representation theorem that QMod can be used for any entity entailing the typical quantum effects mentioned above. Some examples of application of QMod in concept theory and macroscopic physics are also considered.

id: 1204.4882
title: Is it the boundaries or disorder that dominates electron transport in semiconductor `billiards'?
authors: A.P. Micolich, A.M. See, B.C. Scannell, C.A. Marlow, T.P. Martin, I. Pilgrim, A.R. Hamilton, H. Linke, R.P. Taylor
comments: Submitted to Fortschritte der Physik for special issue on Quantum Physics with Non-Hermitian Operators
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4882
abstract: Semiconductor billiards are often considered as ideal systems for studying dynamical chaos in the quantum mechanical limit. In the traditional picture, once the electron's mean free path, as determined by the mobility, becomes larger than the device, disorder is negligible and electron trajectories are shaped by specular reflection from the billiard walls alone. Experimental insight into the electron dynamics is normally obtained by magnetoconductance measurements. A number of recent experimental studies have shown these measurements to be largely independent of the billiards exact shape, and highly dependent on sample-to-sample variations in disorder. In this paper, we discuss these more recent findings within the full historical context of work on semiconductor billiards, and offer strong evidence that small-angle scattering at the sub-100 nm length-scale dominates transport in these devices, with important implications for the role these devices can play for experimental tests of ideas in quantum chaos.

id: 1204.4901
title: Entanglement of Conceptual Entities in Quantum Model Theory (QMod)
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 
journal: Quantum Interaction. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 7620, pp 114-125, 2012
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4901
abstract: We have recently elaborated 'Quantum Model Theory' (QMod) to model situations where the quantum effects of contextuality, interference, superposition, entanglement and emergence, appear without the entities giving rise to these situations having necessarily to be of microscopic nature. We have shown that QMod models without introducing linearity for the set of the states. In this paper we prove that QMod, although not using linearity for the state space, provides a method of identification for entangled states and an intuitive explanation for their occurrence. We illustrate this method for entanglement identification with concrete examples.

id: 1204.4914
title: Quantum Interference in Cognition: Structural Aspects of the Brain
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1004.2530
journal: In V. Ovchinnikov and P. Dini (Eds.), IARIA, Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Quantum, Nano and Micro Technologies, pp. 33-41, 2012
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4914
abstract: We identify the presence of typically quantum effects, namely 'superposition' and 'interference', in what happens when human concepts are combined, and provide a quantum model in complex Hilbert space that represents faithfully experimental data measuring the situation of combining concepts. Our model shows how 'interference of concepts' explains the effects of underextension and overextension when two concepts combine to the disjunction of these two concepts. This result supports our earlier hypothesis that human thought has a superposed two-layered structure, one layer consisting of 'classical logical thought' and a superposed layer consisting of 'quantum conceptual thought'. Possible connections with recent findings of a 'grid-structure' for the brain are analyzed, and influences on the mind/brain relation, and consequences on applied disciplines, such as artificial intelligence and quantum computation, are considered.

id: 1204.4918
title: Cosmological quantum entanglement
authors: Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Nicolas C. Menicucci
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures. v2 Added journal reference and minor changes to match the published version
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29 224003 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4918
abstract: We review recent literature on the connection between quantum entanglement and cosmology, with an emphasis on the context of expanding universes. We discuss recent theoretical results reporting on the production of entanglement in quantum fields due to the expansion of the underlying spacetime. We explore how these results are affected by the statistics of the field (bosonic or fermionic), the type of expansion (de Sitter or asymptotically stationary), and the coupling to spacetime curvature (conformal or minimal). We then consider the extraction of entanglement from a quantum field by coupling to local detectors and how this procedure can be used to distinguish curvature from heating by their entanglement signature. We review the role played by quantum fluctuations in the early universe in nucleating the formation of galaxies and other cosmic structures through their conversion into classical density anisotropies during and after inflation. We report on current literature attempting to account for this transition in a rigorous way and discuss the importance of entanglement and decoherence in this process. We conclude with some prospects for further theoretical and experimental research in this area. These include extensions of current theoretical efforts, possible future observational pursuits, and experimental analogues that emulate these cosmic effects in a laboratory setting.

id: 1204.4922
title: Photon Pair Generation in Silicon Micro-Ring Resonator with Reverse Bias Enhancement
authors: Erman Engin, Damien Bonneau, Chandra M. Natarajan, Alex Clark, M. G. Tanner, R. H. Hadfield, Sanders N. Dorenbos, Val Zwiller, Kazuya Ohira, Nobuo Suzuki, Haruhiko Yoshida, Norio Iizuka, Mizunori Ezaki, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Mark G. Thompson
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4922
abstract: Photon sources are fundamental components for any quantum photonic technology. The ability to generate high count-rate and low-noise correlated photon pairs via spontaneous parametric down-conversion using bulk crystals has been the cornerstone of modern quantum optics. However, future practical quantum technologies will require a scalable integration approach, and waveguide-based photon sources with high-count rate and low-noise characteristics will be an essential part of chip-based quantum technologies. Here, we demonstrate photon pair generation through spontaneous four-wave mixing in a silicon micro-ring resonator, reporting a maximum coincidence-to-accidental (CAR) ratio of 602 (+-) 37, and a maximum photon pair generation rate of 123 MHz (+-) 11 KHz. To overcome free-carrier related performance degradations we have investigated reverse biased p-i-n structures, demonstrating an improvement in the pair generation rate by a factor of up to 2, with negligible impact on CAR.

id: 1204.4950
title: Helical mode conversion using conical reflector
authors: H. Kobayashi, K. Nonaka, M. Kitano
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Opt. Express 20, 14064 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4950
abstract: In a recent paper, Mansuripur et al. [Phys. Rev. A 84, 033813 (2011)] indicated and numerically verified the generation of the helical wavefront of optical beams using a conical-shape reflector. Because the optical reflection is largely free from chromatic aberrations, the conical reflector has an advantage of being able to manipulate the helical wavefront with broadband light such as white light or short light pulses. In this study, we introduce geometrical understanding of the function of the conical reflector using the spatially-dependent geometric phase, or more specifically, the spin redirection phase. We also present a theoretical analysis based on three-dimensional matrix calculus and elucidate relationships of the spin, orbital, and total angular momenta between input and output beams. These analyses are very useful when designing other optical devices that utilize spatially-dependent spin redirection phases. Moreover, we experimentally demonstrate the generation of helical beams from an ordinary Gaussian beam using a metallic conical-shape reflector.

id: 1204.4994
title: Electronic transitions of single silicon vacancy centers in the near-infrared spectral region
authors: Elke Neu, Roland Albrecht, Martin Fischer, Stefan Gsell, Matthias Schreck, Christoph Becher
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, v2 accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 245207 (2012)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4994
abstract: Photoluminescence (PL) spectra of single silicon vacancy (SiV) centers frequently feature very narrow room temperature PL lines in the near-infrared (NIR) spectral region, mostly between 820 nm and 840 nm, in addition to the well known zero-phonon-line (ZPL) at approx. 738 nm [E. Neu et al., Phys. Rev. B 84, 205211 (2011)]. We here exemplarily prove for a single SiV center that this NIR PL is due to an additional purely electronic transition (ZPL). For the NIR line at 822.7 nm, we find a room temperature linewidth of 1.4 nm (2.6 meV). The line saturates at similar excitation power as the ZPL. ZPL and NIR line exhibit identical polarization properties. Cross-correlation measurements between the ZPL and the NIR line reveal anti-correlated emission and prove that the lines originate from a single SiV center, furthermore indicating a fast switching between the transitions (0.7 ns). g(2) auto-correlation measurements exclude that the NIR line is a vibronic sideband or that it arises due to a transition from/to a meta-stable (shelving) state.

id: 1204.5004
title: Compact RF resonator for cryogenic ion traps
authors: D. Gandolfi, M. Niedermayr, M. Kumph, M. Brownnutt, R. Blatt
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 83 (2012) 084705
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5004
abstract: We report on the investigation and implementation of a lumped-component, radio-frequency resonator used in a cryogenic vacuum environment to drive an ion trap. The resonator was required to achieve the voltages necessary to trap (about 100 V), while dissipating as little power as possible (< 250 mW). Ultimately a voltage gain of 100 was measured at 5.7 K. Single calcium ions were confined in a trap driven by this device, providing proof of successful resonator operation at low temperature.

id: 1204.5069
title: Pseudospin symmetry in single particle resonant states
authors: Bing-Nan Lu, En-Guang Zhao, Shan-Gui Zhou
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; Figure 2 and discussion modified; Phys. Rev. Lett., in press
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 109, 072501 (2012)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5069
abstract: The pseudospin symmetry is a relativistic dynamical symmetry connected with the small component of the Dirac spinor. The origin of pseudospin symmetry in single particle bound states in atomic nuclei has been revealed and studied extensively. By examining the zeros of Jost functions corresponding to the small components of Dirac wave functions and phase shifts of continuum states, we show that the pseudospin symmetry in single particle resonant states in nuclei is conserved when the attractive scalar and repulsive vector potentials have the same magnitude but opposite sign. The exact conservation and the breaking of pseudospin symmetry are illustrated for single particle resonances in spherical square-well and Woods-Saxon potentials.

id: 1204.5071
title: Lorentz Group in Ray and Polarization Optics
authors: S. Baskal, Y. S. Kim
comments: Latex 47 pages, 5 figure, to be included as Chapter 10 in "Mathematical Optics: Classical, Quantum and Imaging Methods" edited by Vasudevan Lakshminarayanan (Taylor and Francis, New York)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5071
abstract: While the Lorentz group serves as the basic language for Einstein's special theory of relativity, it is turning out to be the basic mathematical instrument in optical sciences, particularly in ray optics and polarization optics. The beam transfer matrix, commonly called the $ABCD$ matrix, is shown to be a two-by-two representation of the Lorentz group applicable to the three-dimensional space-time consisting of two space and one time dimensions. The Jones matrix applicable to polarization states turns out to be the two-by-two representations of the Lorentz group applicable to the four-dimensional space-time consisting of three space and one time dimensions. The four-by-four Mueller matrix applicable to the Stokes parameters as well as the Poincar\'e sphere are both shown to be the representations of the Lorentz group.

id: 1204.5084
title: Periodic steady state and interference in a periodically driven quantum system
authors: Angelo Russomanno, Alessandro Silva, Giuseppe E. Santoro
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, supplementary material, Accepted by PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 257201 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5084
abstract: We study the coherent dynamics of a quantum many-body system subject to a time-periodic driving. We argue that in many cases, destructive interference in time makes most of the quantum averages time-periodic, after an initial transient. We discuss in detail the case of a quantum Ising chain periodically driven across the critical point, finding that, as a result of quantum coherence, the system never reaches an infinite temperature state. Floquet resonance effects are moreover observed in the frequency dependence of the various observables, which display a sequence of well-defined peaks or dips. Extensions to non-integrable systems are discussed.

id: 1204.5183
title: The `Higgs' Amplitude Mode at the Two-Dimensional Superfluid-Mott Insulator Transition
authors: Manuel Endres, Takeshi Fukuhara, David Pekker, Marc Cheneau, Peter Schau?, Christian Gross, Eugene Demler, Stefan Kuhr, Immanuel Bloch
comments: 
journal: Nature 487, 454 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5183
abstract: Spontaneous symmetry breaking plays a key role in our understanding of nature. In a relativistic field theory, a broken continuous symmetry leads to the emergence of two types of fundamental excitations: massless Nambu-Goldstone modes and a massive `Higgs' amplitude mode. An excitation of Higgs type is of crucial importance in the standard model of elementary particles and also appears as a fundamental collective mode in quantum many-body systems. Whether such a mode exists in low-dimensional systems as a resonance-like feature or becomes over-damped through coupling to Nambu-Goldstone modes has been a subject of theoretical debate. Here we reveal and study a Higgs mode in a two-dimensional neutral superfluid close to the transition to a Mott insulating phase. We unambiguously identify the mode by observing the expected softening of the onset of spectral response when approaching the quantum critical point. In this regime, our system is described by an effective relativistic field theory with a two-component quantum-field, constituting a minimal model for spontaneous breaking of a continuous symmetry. Additionally, all microscopic parameters of our system are known from first principles and the resolution of our measurement allows us to detect excited states of the many-body system at the level of individual quasiparticles. This allows for an in-depth study of Higgs excitations, which also addresses the consequences of reduced dimensionality and confinement of the system. Our work constitutes a first step in exploring emergent relativistic models with ultracold atomic gases.

id: 1204.5206
title: Fast Two-Qubit Gates in Semiconductor Quantum Dots using a Photonic Microcavity
authors: Dmitry Solenov, Sophia E. Economou, T. L. Reinecke
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 035308 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5206
abstract: Implementations for quantum computing require fast single- and multi-qubit quantum gate operations. In the case of optically controlled quantum dot qubits theoretical designs for long-range two- or multi-qubit operations satisfying all the requirements in quantum computing are not yet available. We have developed a design for a fast, long-range two-qubit gate mediated by a photonic microcavity mode using excited states of the quantum dot-cavity system that addresses these needs. This design does not require identical qubits, it is compatible with available optically induced single qubit operations, and it advances opportunities for scalable architectures. We show that the gate fidelity can exceed 90% in experimentally accessible systems.

id: 1204.5223
title: Sensitivity test of a blue-detuned dipole trap designed for parity non-conservation measurements in Fr
authors: Dong Sheng, Jiehang Zhang, Luis A. Orozco
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 83, 043106 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5223
abstract: A dynamic blue-detuned optical dipole trap with stable $^{87}Rb$ atoms produces a differential ac Stark shift of 18 Hz in the ground state hyperfine transition, and it preserves the ground state hyperfine superpositions for a long coherence time of 180 ms. The trapped atoms undergoing microwave Rabi oscillations are sensitive to a small signal, artificially generated with a second microwave source, phase locked to the first allow- ing a simple and effective method for determining signal-to-noise ratio limits through interference techniques. This provides an excellent means of calibrating sensitivity in experiments such as our ongoing Fr parity non-conservation measurement.

id: 1204.5235
title: PT-Symmetric Quantum Electrodynamics and Unitarity
authors: Kimball A. Milton, E. K. Abalo, Prachi Parashar, Nima Pourtolami, J. Wagner
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures. Revised version includes new evidence for the violation of unitarity
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5235
abstract: More than 15 years ago, a new approach to quantum mechanics was suggested, in which Hermiticity of the Hamiltonian was to be replaced by invariance under a discrete symmetry, the product of parity and time-reversal symmetry, $\mathcal{PT}$. It was shown that if $\mathcal{PT}$ is unbroken, energies were, in fact, positive, and unitarity was satisifed. Since quantum mechanics is quantum field theory in 1 dimension, time, it was natural to extend this idea to higher-dimensional field theory, and in fact an apparently viable version of $\mathcal{PT}$-invariant quantum electrodynamics was proposed. However, it has proved difficult to establish that the unitarity of the scattering matrix, for example, the K\"all\'en spectral representation for the photon propagator, can be maintained in this theory. This has led to questions of whether, in fact, even quantum mechanical systems are consistent with probability conservation when Green's functions are examined, since the latter have to possess physical requirements of analyticity. The status of $\mathcal{PT}$QED will be reviewed in this report, as well as the general issue of unitarity.

id: 1204.5262
title: Population and Coherence Dynamics in Light Harvesting Complex II (LH2)
authors: Shu-Hao Yeh, Jing Zhu, Sabre Kais
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 084110 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5262
abstract: The electronic excitation population and coherence dynamics in the chromophores of the photosynthetic light harvesting complex 2 (LH2) B850 ring from purple bacteria (Rhodopseudomonas acidophila) have been studied theoretically at both physiological and cryogenic temperatures. Similar to the well-studied Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) protein, oscillations of the excitation population and coherence in the site basis are observed in LH2 by using a scaled hierarchical equation of motion (HEOM) approach. However, this oscillation time (300 fs) is much shorter compared to the FMO protein (650 fs) at cryogenic temperature. Both environment and high temperature are found to enhance the propagation speed of the exciton wave packet yet they shorten the coherence time and suppress the oscillation amplitude of coherence and the population. Our calculations show that a long-lived coherence between chromophore electronic excited states can exist in such a noisy biological environment.

id: 1204.5391
title: Morse potential derived from first principles
authors: R. N. Costa Filho, G. Alencar, B.-S. Skagerstam, J. S. Andrade Jr
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5391
abstract: We show that a direct connection can be drawn, based on fundamental quantum principles, between the Morse potential, extensively used as an empirical description for the atomic interaction in diatomic molecules, and the harmonic potential. This is conceptually achieved here through a non-additive translation operator, whose action leads to a perfect equivalence between the quantum harmonic oscillator in deformed space and the quantum Morse oscillator in regular space. In this way, our theoretical approach provides a distinctive first principle rationale for anharmonicity, therefore revealing a possible quantum origin for several related properties as, for example, the dissociation energy of diatomic molecules and the deformation of cubic metals.

id: 1204.5483
title: Sensing distant nuclear spins with a single electron spin
authors: Shimon Kolkowitz, Quirin P. Unterreithmeier, Steven D. Bennett, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: Corrected typos, updated references. 5 pages, 4 figures, and supplemental material
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5483
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the use of a single electronic spin to measure the quantum dynamics of distant individual nuclear spins from within a surrounding spin bath. Our technique exploits coherent control of the electron spin, allowing us to isolate and monitor nuclear spins weakly coupled to the electron spin. Specifically, we detect the evolution of distant individual carbon-13 nuclear spins coupled to single nitrogen vacancy centers in a diamond lattice with hyperfine couplings down to a factor of 8 below the electronic spin bare dephasing rate. Potential applications to nanoscale magnetic resonance imaging and quantum information processing are discussed.

id: 1204.5598
title: Cooperativity in light scattering by cold atoms
authors: Tom Bienaime, Romain Bachelard, Nicola Piovella, Robin Kaiser
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: Fortschritte der Physik, Volume 61, Issue 2-3, pages 377-392 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5598
abstract: A cloud of cold N two-level atoms driven by a resonant laser beam shows cooperative effects both in the scattered radiation field and in the radiation pressure force acting on the cloud center-of-mass. The induced dipoles synchronize and the scattered light presents superradiant and/or subradiant features. We present a quantum description of the process in terms of a master equation for the atomic density matrix in the scalar, Born-Markov approximations, reduced to the single-excitation limit. From a perturbative approach for weak incident field, we derive from the master equation the effective Hamiltonian, valid in the linear regime. We discuss the validity of the driven timed Dicke ansatz and of a partial wave expansion for different optical thicknesses and we give analytical expressions for the scattered intensity and the radiation pressure force on the center of mass. We also derive an expression for collective suppression of the atomic excitation and the scattered light by these correlated dipoles.

id: 1204.5634
title: Thermoelectric probe for Rashba spin-orbit interaction strength in a two dimensional electron gas
authors: S. K. Firoz Islam, Tarun Kanti Ghosh
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter
journal: Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 24, 345301 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5634
abstract: Thermoelectric coefficients of a two dimensional electron gas with the Rashba spin-orbit interaction are presented here. In absence of magnetic field, thermoelectric coefficients are enhanced due to the Rashba spin-orbit interaction. In presence of magnetic field, the thermoelectric coefficients of spin-up and spin-down electrons oscillate with different frequency and produces beating patterns in the components of the total thermoelectric power and the total thermal conductivity. We also provide analytical expressions of the thermoelectric coefficients to explain the beating pattern formation. We obtain a simple relation which determines the Rashba SOI strength if the magnetic fields corresponding to any two successive beat nodes are known from the experiment.

id: 1204.5674
title: Fragmentation, domain formation and atom number fluctuations of a two-species Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical lattice
authors: Uttam Shrestha, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 32 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 043037
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5674
abstract: We theoretically study the loading of a two-species Bose-Einstein condensate to an optical lattice in a tightly-confined one-dimensional trap. Due to quantum fluctuations the relative inter and intra species phase coherence between the atoms and the on-site atom number fluctuations are reduced in the miscible regime. For the immiscible case the fluctuations are enhanced and the atoms form metastable interleaved spatially separated domains where the domain length and its fluctuations are affected by quantum fluctuations.

id: 1204.5767
title: Causal set approach to discrete quantum gravity
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5767
abstract: We begin by describing a sequential growth model in which the universe grows one element at a time in discrete time steps. At each step, the process has the form of a causal set and the "completed" universe is given by a path consisting of a discretely growing chain of causal sets. We then introduce a quantum dynamics to obtain a quantum sequential growth process (QSGP) which may lead to a viable model for discrete quantum gravity. A discrete version of Einstein's field equation is derived and a definition for discrete geodesics is proposed. A type of QSGP called an amplitude process is introduced. An example of an amplitude process called a complex percolation process is studied. This process conforms with general principles of causality and covariance. We end with some detailed quantum measure calculations for a specific percolation constant.

id: 1204.5795
title: Two-Dimensional Stimulated Resonance Raman Spectroscopy of Molecules with Broadband X-ray Pulses
authors: Jason D. Biggs, Yu Zhang, Daniel Healion, Shaul Mukamel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5795
abstract: Expressions for the two-dimensional Stimulated x-ray Raman Spectroscopy (2D-SXRS) signal obtained using attosecond x-ray pulses are derived. The 1D- and 2D-SXRS signals are calculated for trans-N-methyl acetamide (NMA) with broad bandwidth (FWHM ~14.2eV, 181 as) pulses tuned to the oxygen and nitrogen K-edges. Crosspeaks in 2D signals reveal electronic Franck-Condon overlaps between valence orbitals and relaxed orbitals in the presence of the core hole.

id: 1204.5850
title: Three Mach Zehnder Interferometers Setup for Production and Observation of GHZ-entanglement of Electrons
authors: A. A. Vyshnevyy, G. B. Lesovik, T. Jonckheere, T. Martin
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 165417 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5850
abstract: We propose a new single-step scheme for the generation of a GHZ entangled state of three single-electron excitations (flying qubits). We also present a method to get a generalized GHZ-state. Our idea relies upon the most recent progress in the field of on-demand electron sources and mesoscopic Mach-Zehnder interferometry. We also provide the recipe for the unambiguous detection of this GHZ state via correlations measurements at the output, which imply the violation of a Bell-type inequality which is generalized to the case of three particles. We explain how such measurements can be achieved in the context of Mach-Zehnder interferometry, and draw an actual prototype device which could be achieved with point contacts and metallic gates placed on a GaAs sample, in the integer quantum Hall effect regime.

id: 1204.5896
title: Dynamical effects of exchange symmetry breaking in mixtures of interacting bosons
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Jacob F. Sherson, Klaus M?lmer
comments: amended and expanded, accepted for Phys. Rev. A, 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063630 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5896
abstract: In a double-well potential, a Bose-Einstein condensate exhibits Josephson oscillations or self-trapping, depending on its initial preparation and on the ratio of inter-particle interaction to inter-well tunneling. Here, we elucidate the role of the exchange symmetry for the dynamics with a mixture of two distinguishable species with identical physical properties, i.e. which are governed by an isospecific interaction and external potential. In the mean-field limit, the spatial population imbalance of the mixture can be described by the dynamics of a single species in an effective potential with modified properties or, equivalently, with an effective total particle number. The oscillation behavior can be tuned by populating the second species while maintaining the spatial population imbalance and all other parameters constant. In the corresponding many-body approach, the single-species description approximates the full counting statistics well also outside the realm of spin-coherent states. The method is extended to general Bose-Hubbard systems and to their classical mean-field limits, which suggests an effective single-species description of multicomponent Bose gases with weakly an-isospecific interactions.

id: 1204.5898
title: Approximate Spin and Pseudospin Solutions of the Dirac equation with Rosen-Morse Potential including a Coulomb Tensor Interaction
authors: K. J. Oyewumi
comments: 21 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5898
abstract: By applying the Pekeris-type approximation to deal with the (pseudo or) centrifugal term, the spin and pseudospin symmetry solutions of the Dirac equation for the Rosen-Morse potential including a Coulomb-like tensor potential with arbitrary spin-orbit coupling quantum number $\kappa$ are obtained by standard method. It has been shown from the numerical results that the degeneracies between spin and pseudospin state doublets are removed by the tensor interaction. Special case of this potential, that is, the spin and pseudospin solutions of the Dirac equation with the modified P\"{o}schl-Teller potential including a tensor interaction is also considered. The results obtained in this case show that the tensor interaction removes the degeneracies between the members of doublets states in spin and pseudospin symmetries.

id: 1204.5911
title: Tailoring high-order harmonic generation with nonhomogeneous fields and electron confinement
authors: M. F. Ciappina, Srdjan S. Acimovic, T. Shaaran, J. Biegert, R. Quidant, M. Lewenstein
comments: 10 pages, 4 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5911
abstract: We study high-order harmonic generation (HHG) resulting from the illumination of plasmonic nanostructures with a short laser pulse. We show that both the inhomogeneities of the local electric field and the confinement of the electron motion play an important role in the HHG process and lead to a significant increase of the harmonic cutoff. In order to understand and characterize this feature, we combine the numerical solution of the time dependent Schroedinger equation (TDSE) with the electric fields obtained from 3D finite element simulations. We employ time-frequency analysis to extract more detailed information from the TDSE results and to explain the extended harmonic spectra. Our findings have the potential to boost up the utilization of HHG as coherent extreme ultraviolet (XUV) sources.

id: 1204.5918
title: Dynamics of a nano-scale rotor driven by single-electron tunneling
authors: A. Croy, A. Eisfeld
comments: 
journal: EPL, 98 (2012) 68004
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5918
abstract: We investigate theoretically the dynamics and the charge transport properties of a rod-shaped nano-scale rotor, which is driven by a similar mechanism as the nanomechanical single-electron transistor (NEMSET). We show that a static electric potential gradient can lead to self-excitation of oscillatory or continuous rotational motion. The relevant parameters of the device are identified and the dependence of the dynamics on these parameters is studied. We further discuss how the dynamics is related to the measured current through the device. Notably, in the oscillatory regime, we find a negative differential conductance. The current-voltage characteristics can be used to infer details of the surrounding environment which is responsible for damping.

id: 1204.5940
title: Opto-mechanical measurement of micro-trap via nonlinear cavity enhanced Raman scattering spectrum
authors: Lin Zhang
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B: Lasers and Optics 111 (2) 195-202 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5940
abstract: High-gain resonant nonlinear Raman scattering on trapped cold atoms within a high-fineness ring optical cavity is simply explained under a nonlinear opto-mechanical mechanism, and a proposal using it to detect frequency of micro-trap on atom chip is presented. The enhancement of scattering spectrum is due to a coherent Raman conversion between two different cavity modes mediated by collective vibrations of atoms through nonlinear opto-mechanical couplings. The physical conditions of this technique are roughly estimated on Rubidium atoms, and a simple quantum analysis as well as a multi-body semiclassical simulation on this nonlinear Raman process is conducted.

id: 1204.5948
title: A Model of Macroscopic Geometrical Uncertainty
authors: Craig J. Hogan
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5948
abstract: A model quantum system is proposed to describe position states of a massive body in flat space on large scales, excluding all standard quantum and gravitational degrees of freedom. The model is based on standard quantum spin commutators, with operators interpreted as positions instead of spin, and a Planck-scale length $\ell_P$ in place of Planck's constant $\hbar$. The algebra is used to derive a new quantum geometrical uncertainty in direction, with variance given by $\langle \Delta \theta^2\rangle = \ell_P/L$ at separation $L$, that dominates over standard quantum position uncertainty for bodies greater than the Planck mass. The system is discrete and holographic, and agrees with gravitational entropy if the commutator coefficient takes the exact value $\ell_P= l_P/\sqrt{4\pi}$, where $l_P\equiv \sqrt{\hbar G/c^3}$ denotes the standard Planck length. A physical interpretation is proposed that connects the operators with properties of classical position in the macroscopic limit: Approximate locality and causality emerge in macroscopic systems if position states of multiple bodies are entangled by proximity. This interpretation predicts coherent directional fluctuations with variance $\langle \Delta \theta^2\rangle $ on timescale $\tau \approx L/c$ that lead to precisely predictable correlations in signals between adjacent interferometers. It is argued that such a signal could provide compelling evidence of Planck scale quantum geometry, even in the absence of a complete dynamical or fundamental theory.

id: 1204.5949
title: Quantum Adsorption of an Electron to Porous Silicon
authors: Yanting Zhang, Dennis P. Clougherty
comments: Supplemental note for Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 173202 (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5949
abstract: Using the theory of Zhang and Clougherty [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 173202 (2012)], we provide detailed supporting information concerning the numerical calculations of the probability ${\it s}(E)$ for a low-energy electron with incident energy E adsorbing to the surface of nanoporous silicon.

id: 1204.5953
title: Is Radioactive Decay Really Exponential?
authors: Philip J. Aston
comments: 
journal: EPL, 97, 52001, 2012
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.5953
abstract: Radioactive decay of an unstable isotope is widely believed to be exponential. This view is supported by experiments on rapidly decaying isotopes but is more difficult to verify for slowly decaying isotopes. The decay of 14C can be calibrated over a period of 12,550 years by comparing radiocarbon dates with dates obtained from dendrochronology. It is well known that this approach shows that radiocarbon dates of over 3,000 years are in error, which is generally attributed to past variation in atmospheric levels of 14C. We note that predicted atmospheric variation (assuming exponential decay) does not agree with results from modelling, and that theoretical quantum mechanics does not predict exact exponential decay. We give mathematical arguments that non-exponential decay should be expected for slowly decaying isotopes and explore the consequences of non-exponential decay. We propose an experimental test of this prediction of non-exponential decay for 14C. If confirmed, a foundation stone of current dating methods will have been removed, requiring a radical reappraisal both of radioisotope dating methods and of currently predicted dates obtained using these methods.

id: 1204.6035
title: Comments on "There is no axiomatic system for the quantum theory"
authors: J. Acacio de Barros
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Volume 50, Number 6 (2011), 1828-1830
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6035
abstract: In a recent paper, Nagata [1] claims to derive inconsistencies from quantum mechanics. In this paper, we show that the inconsistencies do not come from quantum mechanics, but from extra assumptions about the reality of observables.

id: 1204.6150
title: Retarded interactions in Graphene systems
authors: Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 11 pages, 17 figures
journal: Physical Review B 85, 195427 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6150
abstract: We first demonstrate how two-dimensional sheets are incorporated in the formalism for planar structures. Then we derive the interaction in the geometry of two free-standing graphene sheets and of one graphene sheet above a substrate. Numerical results are produced for the fully retarded interaction at 0 K and at room temperature for undoped and doped graphene. Additional results are given both for a gold substrate and for an ideal metal substrate.

id: 1204.6205
title: Electron and hole Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometry
authors: T. Jonckheere, J. Rech, C. Wahl, T. Martin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 125425 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6205
abstract: We consider the electronic analog of the quantum optics Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer, in a realistic condensed matter device based on single electron emission in chiral edge states. For electron-electron collisions, we show that the measurement of the zero-frequency current correlations at the output of a quantum point contact produces a dip giving precious information on the electronic wavepackets and coherence. As a feature truly unique to Fermi statistics and condensed matter, we show that two-particle interferences between electron and hole in the Fermi sea can produce a positive peak in the current correlations, which we study for realistic experimental parameters.

id: 1204.6279
title: Phase transitions and quantum effects in anharmonic crystals
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Yuri Kozitsky, Yuri Kondratiev, Michael Roeckner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6279
abstract: The most important recent results in the theory of phase transitions and quantum effects in quantum anharmonic crystals are presented and discussed. In particular, necessary and sufficient conditions for a phase transition to occur at some temperature are given in the form of simple inequalities involving the interaction strength and the parameters describing a single oscillator. The main characteristic feature of the theory is that both mentioned phenomena are described in one and the same setting, in which thermodynamic phases of the model appear as probability measures on path spaces. Then the possibility of a phase transition to occur is related to the existence of multiple phases at the same values of the relevant parameters. Other definitions of phase transitions, based on the non-differentiability of the free energy density and on the appearance of ordering, are also discussed.

id: 1204.6299
title: Quantum optomechanics with a high-frequency dilational mode in thin dielectric membranes
authors: K. Borkje, S. M. Girvin
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures. v2: Minor changes, journal ref. added
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 085016 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6299
abstract: The interaction between a high-frequency dilational mode of a thin dielectric film and an optical cavity field is studied theoretically in the membrane-in-the-middle setup. A derivation from first principles leads to a multi-mode optomechanical Hamiltonian where multiple cavity modes are coupled by the thickness variation of the membrane. For membrane thicknesses on the order of one micron, the frequency of this dilational mode is in the GHz range. This can be matched to the free spectral range of the optical cavity, such that the mechanical oscillator will resonantly couple cavity modes at different frequencies. Furthermore, such a large mechanical frequency also means that the quantum ground state of motion can be reached with conventional refrigeration techniques. Estimation of the coupling strength with realistic parameters suggests that optomechanical effects can be observable with this dilational mode. It is shown how this system can be used as a quantum limited optical amplifier. The dilational motion can also lead to quantum correlations between cavity modes at different frequencies, which is quantified with an experimentally accessible two-mode squeezing spectrum. Finally, an explicit signature of radiation pressure shot noise in this system is identified.

id: 1204.6347
title: Energetically stable singular vortex cores in an atomic spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Justin Lovegrove, Magnus O. Borgh, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 14 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys Rev A, 86, 013613 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6347
abstract: We analyze the structure and stability of singular singly quantized vortices in a rotating spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate. We show that the singular vortex can be energetically stable in both the ferromagnetic and polar phases despite the existence of a lower-energy nonsingular coreless vortex in the ferromagnetic phase. The spin-1 system exhibits an energetic hierarchy of length scales resulting from different interaction strengths and we find that the vortex cores deform to a larger size determined by the characteristic length scale of the spin-dependent interaction. We show that in the ferromagnetic phase the resulting stable core structure, despite apparent complexity, can be identified as a single polar core with axially symmetric density profile which is nonvanishing everywhere. In the polar phase, the energetically favored core deformation leads to a splitting of a singly quantized vortex into a pair of half-quantum vortices that preserves the topology of the vortex outside the extended core region, but breaks the axial symmetry of the core. The resulting half-quantum vortices exhibit nonvanishing ferromagnetic cores.

id: 1204.6365
title: Graphene-based qubits in quantum communications
authors: G. Y. Wu, N.-Y. Lue
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6365
abstract: We explore the potential application of graphene-based qubits in photonic quantum communications. In particular, the valley pair qubit in double quantum dots of gapped graphene is investigated as a quantum memory in the implementation of quantum repeaters. For the application envisioned here, our work extends the recent study of the qubit (Wu et al., arXiv: 1104.0443; Phys. Rev. B 84, 195463 (2011)) to the case where the qubit is placed in a normal magnetic field-free configuration. It develops, for the configuration, a method of qubit manipulation, based on a unique AC electric field-induced, valley-orbit interaction-derived mechanism in gapped graphene. It also studies the optical response of graphene quantum dots in the configuration, in terms of valley excitation with respect to photonic polarization, and illustrates faithful photon \leftrightarrow valley quantum state transfers. This work suggests the interesting prospect of an all-graphene approach for the solid state components of a quantum network, e.g., quantum computers and quantum memories in communications.

id: 1204.6375
title: Geometric descriptions of entangled states by auxiliaries varieties
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Holweck, Jean-Gabriel Luque, Jean-Yves Thibon
comments: 32 pages, 15 Tables, 5 Figures. References and remarks added
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 102203 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6375
abstract: The aim of the paper is to propose geometric descriptions of multipartite entangled states using algebraic geometry. In the context of this paper, geometric means each stratum of the Hilbert space, corresponding to an entangled state, is an open subset of an algebraic variety built by classical geometric constructions (tangent lines, secant lines) from the set of separable states. In this setting we describe well-known classifications of multipartite entanglement such as $2\times 2\times(n+1)$, for $n\geq 1$, quantum systems and a new example with the $2\times 3\times 3$ quantum system. Our description completes the approach of Miyake and makes stronger connections with recent work of algebraic geometers. Moreover for the quantum systems detailed in this paper we propose an algorithm, based on the classical theory of invariants, to decide to which subvariety of the Hilbert space a given state belongs.

id: 1204.6383
title: Upconversion of optical signals with multi-longitudinal-mode pump lasers
authors: J. S. Pelc, G.-L. Shentu, Q. Zhang, M. M. Fejer, J.-W. Pan
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, comments are welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033827 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6383
abstract: Multi-longitudinal-mode lasers have been believed to be good candidates as pump sources for optical frequency conversion. However, we present a semi-classical model for frequency conversion of optical signals with a multimode pump laser, which shows that fluctuations of the instantaneous pump power limit the conversion efficiency. In an experiment, we upconverted a 1550 nm optical signal in a periodically poled lithium niobate waveguide using with a multi-longitudinal-mode laser, an observed a maximum conversion efficiency of 70%, in good agreement with our theoretical model. Compared to single-mode pumping, multimode pumping is not a suitable technique for attaining stable near-unity-efficiency frequency conversion. However, the results obtained here could find application in characterization of the spectral or temporal structure of multi-longitudinal-mode lasers.

id: 1204.6384
title: Quantum fields are not fields. Comment on "There are no particles, there are only fields," by Art Hobson [Am. J. Phys. 81(3), 211-223 (2013)]
authors: Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: To appear in the Am. J. Phys., with a response from the author
journal: Am. J. Phys. 81 , 707 (2013)
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6384
abstract: We comment on a recent paper by Hobson, explaining that quantum "fields" are no more fields than quantum "particles" are particles, so that the replacement of a particle ontology by an all-field ontology cannot solve the typical interpretational problems of quantum mechanics.

id: 1204.6428
title: Time-Reversal Symmetry and Universal Conductance Fluctuations in a Driven Two-Level System
authors: Simon Gustavsson, Jonas Bylander, William D. Oliver
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6428
abstract: In the presence of time-reversal symmetry, quantum interference gives strong corrections to the electric conductivity of disordered systems. The self-interference of an electron wavefunction traveling time-reversed paths leads to effects such as weak localization and universal conductance fluctuations. Here, we investigate the effects of broken time-reversal symmetry in a driven artificial two-level system. Using a superconducting flux qubit, we implement scattering events as multiple Landau-Zener transitions by driving the qubit periodically back and forth through an avoided crossing. Interference between different qubit trajectories give rise to a speckle pattern in the qubit transition rate, similar to the interference patterns created when coherent light is scattered off a disordered potential. Since the scattering events are imposed by the driving protocol, we can control the time-reversal symmetry of the system by making the drive waveform symmetric or asymmetric in time. We find that the fluctuations of the transition rate exhibit a sharp peak when the drive is time-symmetric, similar to universal conductance fluctuations in electronic transport through mesoscopic systems.

id: 1204.6435
title: Fast Scramblers, Horizons and Expander Graphs
authors: Jose L.F. Barbon, Javier M. Magan
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures. Added further discussion in section 3. Added references
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6435
abstract: We propose that local quantum systems defined on expander graphs provide a simple microscopic model for thermalization on quantum horizons. Such systems are automatically fast scramblers and are motivated from the membrane paradigm by a conformal transformation to the so-called optical metric.

id: 1204.6493
title: The Dirac-Coulomb Problem: a mathematical revisit
authors: A. D. Alhaidari, H. Bahlouli, M. E. H. Ismail
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 45, 365204 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6493
abstract: We obtain a symmetric tridiagonal matrix representation of the Dirac-Coulomb operator in a suitable complete square integrable basis. Orthogonal polynomials techniques along with Darboux method are used to obtain the bound states energy spectrum, the relativistic scattering amplitudes and phase shifts from the asymptotic behavior of the polynomial solutions associated with the resulting three-term recursion relation.

id: 1204.6511
title: (Never) Mind your p's and q's: Von Neumann versus Jordan on the Foundations of Quantum Theory
authors: Anthony Duncan, Michel Janssen
comments: New version. The main difference with the old version is that the introduction has been rewritten. Sec. 1 (pp. 2-12) in the old version has been replaced by Secs. 1.1-1.4 (pp. 2-31) in the new version. The paper has been accepted for publication in European Physical Journal H
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6511
abstract: In two papers entitled "On a new foundation [Neue Begr\"undung] of quantum mechanics," Pascual Jordan (1927b,g) presented his version of what came to be known as the Dirac-Jordan statistical transformation theory. As an alternative that avoids the mathematical difficulties facing the approach of Jordan and Paul A. M. Dirac (1927), John von Neumann (1927a) developed the modern Hilbert space formalism of quantum mechanics. In this paper, we focus on Jordan and von Neumann. Central to the formalisms of both are expressions for conditional probabilities of finding some value for one quantity given the value of another. Beyond that Jordan and von Neumann had very different views about the appropriate formulation of problems in quantum mechanics. For Jordan, unable to let go of the analogy to classical mechanics, the solution of such problems required the identication of sets of canonically conjugate variables, i.e., p's and q's. For von Neumann, not constrained by the analogy to classical mechanics, it required only the identication of a maximal set of commuting operators with simultaneous eigenstates. He had no need for p's and q's. Jordan and von Neumann also stated the characteristic new rules for probabilities in quantum mechanics somewhat differently. Jordan (1927b) was the first to state those rules in full generality. Von Neumann (1927a) rephrased them and, in a subsequent paper (von Neumann, 1927b), sought to derive them from more basic considerations. In this paper we reconstruct the central arguments of these 1927 papers by Jordan and von Neumann and of a paper on Jordan's approach by Hilbert, von Neumann, and Nordheim (1928). We highlight those elements in these papers that bring out the gradual loosening of the ties between the new quantum formalism and classical mechanics.

id: 1204.6513
title: Sensing remote nuclear spins
authors: Nan Zhao, Jan Honert, Berhard Schmid, Junichi Isoya, Mathew Markham, Daniel Twitchen, Fedor Jelezko, Ren-Bao Liu, Helmut Fedder, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6513
abstract: Sensing single nuclear spins is a central challenge in magnetic resonance based imaging techniques. Although different methods and especially diamond defect based sensing and imaging techniques in principle have shown sufficient sensitivity, signals from single nuclear spins are usually too weak to be distinguished from background noise. Here, we present the detection and identification of remote single C-13 nuclear spins embedded in nuclear spin baths surrounding a single electron spins of a nitrogen-vacancy centre in diamond. With dynamical decoupling control of the centre electron spin, the weak magnetic field ~10 nT from a single nuclear spin located ~3 nm from the centre with hyperfine coupling as weak as ~500 Hz is amplified and detected. The quantum nature of the coupling is confirmed and precise position and the vector components of the nuclear field are determined. Given the distance over which nuclear magnetic fields can be detected the technique marks a firm step towards imaging, detecting and controlling nuclear spin species external to the diamond sensor.

id: 1204.6528
title: Quantum coherence and sensitivity of avian magnetoreception
authors: Jayendra N. Bandyopadhyay, Tomasz Paterek, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 6+ pages, 2+4 figures, new results added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 110502 (2012)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6528
abstract: Migratory birds and other species have the ability to navigate by sensing the geomagnetic field. Recent experiments indicate that the essential process in the navigation takes place in bird's eye and uses chemical reaction involving molecular ions with unpaired electron spins (radical pair). Sensing is achieved via geomagnetic-dependent dynamics of the spins of the unpaired electrons. Here we utilize the results of two behavioral experiments conducted on European Robins to argue that the average life-time of the radical pair is of the order of a microsecond and therefore agrees with experimental estimations of this parameter for cryptochrome --- a pigment believed to form the radical pairs. We also found a reasonable parameter regime where sensitivity of the avian compass is enhanced by environmental noise, showing that long coherence time is not required for navigation and may even spoil it.

id: 1204.6562
title: Effective-Mass Dirac Equation for Woods-Saxon Potential: Scattering, Bound States and Resonances
authors: Oktay Aydo?du, Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 042106 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6562
abstract: Approximate scattering and bound state solutions of the one-dimensional effective-mass Dirac equation with the Woods-Saxon potential are obtained in terms of the hypergeometric-type functions. Transmission and reflection coefficients are calculated by using behavior of the wave functions at infinity. The same analysis is done for the constant mass case. It is also pointed out that our results are in agreement with those obtained in literature. Meanwhile, an analytic expression is obtained for the transmission resonance and observed that the expressions for bound states and resonances are equal for the energy values $E=\pm m$.

id: 1204.6605
title: Quadratic PT-symmetric operators with real spectrum and similarity to self-adjoint operators
authors: Emanuela Caliceti, Sandro Graffi, Michael Hitrik, Johannes Sjoestrand
comments: In the revised version, the main result of the paper has been extended, to treat the case of a more general parity operator. An example of an elliptic quadratic PT-symmetric operator has also been added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6605
abstract: It is established that a PT-symmetric elliptic quadratic differential operator with real spectrum is similar to a self-adjoint operator precisely when the associated fundamental matrix has no Jordan blocks.

id: 1204.6693
title: Confined System with Rashba Coupling in Constant Magnetic Field
authors: Mohammed El Bouziani, Rachid Houca, Ahmed Jellal
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.6693
abstract: We study a two dimensional system of electrons with Rashba coupling in the constant magnetic field $B$ and confining potential. We algebraically diagonalize the corresponding Hamiltonian to end up with the solutions of the energy spectrum. In terms of two kinds of operator we construct two symmetries and discuss the filling of the shells with electrons for strong and weak $B$. Subsequently, we show that our system is sharing some common features with quantum optics where the exact operator solutions for the basics Jaynes-Cummings variables are derived from our results. An interesting limit is studied and the corresponding quantum dynamics is recovered.

id: 1204.2685
title: Making the best of mixed-field orientation of polar molecules: A recipe for achieving adiabatic dynamics in an electrostatic field combined with laser pulses
authors: Jens H. Nielsen, Henrik Stapelfeldt, Jochen K¨¹pper, Bretislav Friedrich, Juan J. Omiste, Rosario Gonz¨¢lez-F¨¦rez
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 193001 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2685
abstract: We have experimentally and theoretically investigated the mixed-field orientation of rotational-state-selected OCS molecules and we achieve strong degrees of alignment and orientation. The applied moderately intense nanosecond laser pulses are long enough to adiabatically align molecules. However, in combination with a weak dc electric field, the same laser pulses result in nonadiabatic dynamics in the mixed-field orientation. These observations are fully explained by calculations employing, both, adiabatic and non-adiabatic time-dependent models.

