id: 1205.0031
title: Squeezing as the source of inefficiency in the quantum Otto cycle
authors: A.M. Zagoskin, S. Savel'ev, Franco Nori, F.V. Kusmartsev
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 014501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0031
abstract: The availability of controllable macroscopic devices, which maintain quantum coherence over relatively long time intervals, for the first time allows an experimental realization of many effects previously considered only as Gedankenexperiments, such as the operation of quantum heat engines. The theoretical efficiency \eta of quantum heat engines is restricted by the same Carnot boundary \eta_C as for the classical ones: any deviations from quasistatic evolution suppressing \eta below \eta_C. Here we investigate an implementation of an analog of the Otto cycle in a tunable quantum coherent circuit and show that the specific source of inefficiency is the quantum squeezing of the thermal state due to the finite speed of compression/expansion of the system.

id: 1205.0036
title: Optimal Quantum Circuits for Nearest-Neighbor Architectures
authors: David Rosenbaum
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures. v1 introduces all the results. v2 and v3 make minor improvements to the presentation and add additional references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0036
abstract: We show that the depth of quantum circuits in the realistic architecture where a classical controller determines which local interactions to apply on the kD grid Z^k where k >= 2 is the same (up to a constant factor) as in the standard model where arbitrary interactions are allowed. This allows minimum-depth circuits (up to a constant factor) for the nearest-neighbor architecture to be obtained from minimum-depth circuits in the standard abstract model. Our work therefore justifies the standard assumption that interactions can be performed between arbitrary pairs of qubits. In particular, our results imply that Shor's algorithm, controlled operations and fanouts can be implemented in constant depth, polynomial size and polynomial width in this architecture. We also present optimal non-adaptive quantum circuits for controlled operations and fanouts on a kD grid. These circuits have depth Theta(n^(1 / k)), size Theta(n) and width Theta(n). Our lower bound also applies to a more general class of operations.

id: 1205.0060
title: Entangling homogeneously broadened matter qubits in the weak-coupling cavity-QED regime
authors: Kazuki Koshino, Yuichiro Matsuzaki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0060
abstract: In distributed quantum information processing, flying photons entangle matter qubits confined in cavities. However, when a matter qubit is homogeneously broadened, the strong-coupling regime of cavity QED is typically required, which is hard to realize in actual experimental setups. Here, we show that a high-fidelity entanglement operation is possible even in the weak-coupling regime in which dampings (dephasing, spontaneous emission, and cavity leakage) overwhelm the coherent coupling between a qubit and the cavity. Our proposal enables distributed quantum information processing to be performed using much less demanding technology than previously.

id: 1205.0073
title: Measurement uncertainties in the quantum formalism: quasi-realities of individual systems
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 5 pages, contribution to the proceedings of QIT26, held May 21st to 22nd 2012 in Fukui, Japan
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0073
abstract: The evaluation of uncertainties in quantum measurements is problematic since the correct value of an observable between state preparation and measurement is experimentally inaccessible. In Ozawa's formulation of uncertainty relations for quantum measurements, the correct value of an observable is represented by the operator of that observable. Here, I consider the implications of this operator-based assignment of values to individual systems and discuss the relation with weak values and weak measurement statistics.

id: 1205.0115
title: Peierls Distortion and Quantum Solitons
authors: Chiara Marletto, Mario Rasetti
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters vol. 109 issue 12, 2012. p. 126405 - 126409
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0115
abstract: Peierls distortion and quantum solitons are two hallmarks of 1-dimensional condensed-matter systems. Here we propose a quantum model for a one-dimensional system of non-linearly interacting electrons and phonons, where the phonons are represented via coherent states. This model permits a unified description of Peierls distortion and quantum solitons. The non-linear electron-phonon interaction and the resulting deformed symmetry of the Hamiltonian are distinctive features of the model, of which that of Su, Schrieffer and Heeger can be regarded as a special case.

id: 1205.0138
title: Fine-grained lower limit of entropic uncertainty in the presence of quantum memory
authors: T. Pramanik, P. Chowdhury, A. S. Majumdar
comments: Latex, 5 pages, one encapsulated figure, accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 020402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0138
abstract: The limitation on obtaining precise outcomes of measurements performed on two non-commuting observables of a particle as set by the uncertainty principle in its entropic form, can be reduced in the presence of quantum memory. We derive a new entropic uncertainty relation based on fine- graining, which leads to an ultimate limit on the precision achievable in measurements performed on two incompatible observables in the presence of quantum memory. We show that our derived uncertainty relation tightens the lower bound set by entropic uncertainty for members of the class of two-qubit states with maximally mixed marginals, while accounting for the recent experimental results using maximally entangled pure states and mixed Bell-diagonal states. An implication of our uncertainty relation on the security of quantum key generation protocols is pointed out.

id: 1205.0200
title: Local Availability of mathematics and number scaling: Effects on quantum physics
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures, To appear in SPIE conference proceedings, Quantum information and computation X, April 26,27, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0200
abstract: Local availability of mathematics and number scaling provide an approach to a coherent theory of physics and mathematics. Local availability of mathematics assigns separate mathematical universes, U_{x}, to each space time point, x. The mathematics available to an observer, O_{x}, at x is contained in U_{x}. Number scaling is based on extending the choice freedom of vector space bases in gauge theories to choice freedom of underlying number systems. Scaling arises in the description, in U_{x}, of mathematical systems in U_{y}. If a_{y} or \psi_{y} is a number or a quantum state in U_{y}, then the corresponding number or state in U_{x} is r_{y,x}a_{x} or r_{y,x}\psi_{x}. Here a_{x} and \psi_{x} are the same number and state in U_{x} as a_{y} and \psi_{y} are in U_{y}. If y=x+\hat{\mu}dx is a neighbor point of x, then the scaling factor is r_{y,x}=\exp(\vec{A}(x)\cdot\hat{\mu}dx) where \vec{A} is a vector field, assumed here to be the gradient of a scalar field. The effects of scaling and local availability of mathematics on quantum theory show that scaling has two components, external and internal. External scaling is shown above for a_{y} and \psi_{y}. Internal scaling occurs in expressions with integrals or derivatives over space or space time. An example is the replacement of the position expectation value, \int\psi^{*}(y)y\psi(y)dy, by \int_{x}r_{y,x}\psi^{*}_{x}(y_{x})y_{x}\psi_{x}(y_{x})dy_{x}. This is an integral in U_{x}. The good agreement between quantum theory and experiment shows that scaling is negligible in a space region, L, in which experiments and calculations can be done, and results compared. L includes the solar system, but the speed of light limits the size of L to a few light years. Outside of $L$, at cosmological distances, the limits on scaling are not present.

id: 1205.0217
title: Automated Synthesis of Dynamically Corrected Quantum Gates
authors: Kaveh Khodjasteh, Hendrik Bluhm, Lorenza Viola
comments: 5 pages; further restructure and expansion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0217
abstract: We address the problem of constructing dynamically corrected gates for non-Markovian open quantum systems in settings where limitations on the available control inputs and/or the presence of control noise make existing analytical approaches unfeasible. By focusing on the important case of singlet-triplet electron spin qubits, we show how ideas from optimal control theory may be used to automate the synthesis of dynamically corrected gates that simultaneously minimize the system's sensitivity against both decoherence and control errors. Explicit sequences for effecting robust single-qubit rotations subject to realistic timing and pulse-shaping constraints are provided, which can deliver substantially improved gate fidelity for state-of-the-art experimental capabilities.

id: 1205.0222
title: Continuous variable methods in relativistic quantum information: Characterisation of quantum and classical correlations of scalar field modes in noninertial frames
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Sammy Ragy, Davide Girolami
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures. v2: Setting clarified. To appear in Class. Quantum Grav. Special Issue on `Relativistic Quantum Information'
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29 (2012) 224002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0222
abstract: We review a recently introduced unified approach to the analytical quantification of correlations in Gaussian states of bosonic scalar fields by means of Renyi-2 entropy. This allows us to obtain handy formulae for classical, quantum, total correlations, as well as bipartite and multipartite entanglement. We apply our techniques to the study of correlations between two modes of a scalar field as described by observers in different states of motion. When one or both observers are in uniform acceleration, the quantum and classical correlations are degraded differently by the Unruh effect, depending on which mode is detected. Residual quantum correlations, in the form of quantum discord without entanglement, may survive in the limit of an infinitely accelerated observer Rob, provided they are revealed in a measurement performed by the inertial Alice.

id: 1205.0244
title: Quantization from Hamilton-Jacobi theory with a random constraint
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: 6 pages, accepted for publication in Physica A
journal: Physica A 391 (2012) 4583-4589
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0244
abstract: We propose a method of quantization based on Hamilton-Jacobi theory in the presence of a random constraint due to the fluctuations of a set of hidden random variables. Given a Lagrangian, it reproduces the results of canonical quantization yet with a unique ordering of operators if the Lagrange multiplier that arises in the dynamical system with constraint can only take binary values $\pm\hbar/2$ with equal probability.

id: 1205.0251
title: Quantum resources for hybrid communication via qubit-oscillator states
authors: Tommaso Tufarelli, Davide Girolami, Ruggero Vasile, Sougato Bose, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052326 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0251
abstract: We investigate a family of qubit-oscillator states as resources for hybrid quantum communication. They result from a mechanism of qubit-controlled displacement on the oscillator. For large displacements, we obtain analytical formulas for entanglement and other nonclassical correlations, such as entropic and geometric discord, in those states. We design two protocols for quantum communication using the considered resource states, a hybrid teleportation and a hybrid remote state preparation. The latter, in its standard formulation, is shown to have a performance limited by the initial mixedness of the oscillator, echoing the behaviour of the geometric discord. If one includes a further optimization over non-unitary correcting operations performed by the receiver, the performance is improved to match that of teleportation, which is directly linked to the amount of entanglement. Both protocols can then approach perfect efficiency even if the oscillator is originally highly thermal. We discuss the critical implications of these findings for the interpretation of general quantum correlations.

id: 1205.0289
title: On the Power of Reusable Magic States
authors: Jonas T. Anderson
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures Typos fixed and other clarifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0289
abstract: In this paper we study reusable magic states. These states are a special subset of the standard magic states. Once distilled, reusable magic states can be used, repeatedly, to apply some unitary U. Given this property, reusable magic states have the potential to greatly lower qubit and gate overheads in fault-tolerant quantum computation. While these states are promising, we provide a strong argument for their limited computational power. Specifically, we show that if reusable magic states can be used to apply non-Clifford unitaries, then we can exploit them to efficiently simulate poly-sized quantum circuits on a classical computer.

id: 1205.0293
title: A Theory of Quantum Observation and the Emergence of the Born Rule
authors: Andreas O. Tell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0293
abstract: A realist description of our universe requires a twofold concept of locality. On one hand, there are the strictly Einstein-local interactions which generate the time evolution. On the other hand, the quantum state space calls for a non-local description of multi-particle states. This article uses a behavioristic approach to argue, that an observer in a universe like this has to rely on local interactions to learn about its properties and behavior. Such an observer is fundamentally restricted in his ability to understand and structurally reconstruct the individual local physical universe. We argue, that this reconstruction based on dynamically available information is the defining process of observation in quantum theory. The observer-centric view of the global quantum dynamics is shown to be non-unitary and non-linear in general, even if the universe itself evolves unitarily. Interactions with massless free particles are found to have great influence on observation, because of their special role in the light-cone structure of an Einstein-local universe. For a specific scattering process with a photon of unknown state, the observed outcome can be subjectively random and follow the Born statistic, while the output state is really determined by the photon polarization. Based on this result, a theory of quantum measurement is formulated, which describes a measurement device as a cascade of scattering events.

id: 1205.0300
title: Generation of non-classical correlated photon pairs via a ladder-type atomic configuration: theory and experiment
authors: Dong-Sheng Ding, Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Bao-Sen Shi, Xu-Bo Zou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Accepted by Optics Express
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0300
abstract: We experimentally generate a non-classical correlated two-color photon pair at 780 and 1529.4 nm in a ladder-type configuration using a hot 85Rb atomic vapor with the production rate of ~107/s. The non-classical correlation between these two photons is demonstrated by strong violation of Cauchy-Schwarz inequality by the factor R=48+-12. Besides, we experimentally investigate the relations between the correlation and some important experimental parameters such as the single-photon detuning, the powers of pumps. We also make a theoretical analysis in detail and the theoretical predictions are in reasonable agreement with our experimental results.

id: 1205.0307
title: Temporal breakdown and Borel resummation in the complex Langevin method
authors: A. Duncan, M. Niedermaier
comments: title changed, results on parameter dependence of t_c added, exposition improved. 39 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0307
abstract: We reexamine the Parisi-Klauder conjecture for complex e^{i\theta/2} \phi^4 measures with a Wick rotation angle 0 <= \theta/2 < \pi/2 interpolating between Euclidean and Lorentzian signature. Our main result is that the asymptotics for short stochastic times t encapsulates information also about the equilibrium aspects. The moments evaluated with the complex measure and with the real measure defined by the stochastic Langevin equation have the same t -> 0 asymptotic expansion which is shown to be Borel summable. The Borel transform correctly reproduces the time dependent moments of the complex measure for all t, including their t -> infinity equilibrium values. On the other hand the results of a direct numerical simulation of the Langevin moments are found to disagree from the `correct' result for t larger than a finite t_c. The breakdown time t_c increases powerlike for decreasing strength of the noise's imaginary part but cannot be excluded to be finite for purely real noise. To ascertain the discrepancy we also compute the real equilibrium distribution for complex noise explicitly and verify that its moments differ from those obtained with the complex measure.

id: 1205.0317
title: Triple Compton effect: A photon splitting into three upon collision with a free electron
authors: E. L?tstedt, U. D. Jentschura
comments: 5 pages; RevTeX; to be published in Phys.Rev.Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 108 (2012) 233201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0317
abstract: The process in which a photon splits into three after the collision with a free electron (triple Compton effect) is the most basic process for the generation of a high-energy multi-particle entangled state composed out of elementary quanta. The cross section of the process is evaluated in two experimentally realizable situations, one employing gamma photons and stationary electrons, and the other using keV photons and GeV electrons of an x-ray free electron laser. For the first case, our calculation is in agreement with the only available measurement of the differential cross section for the process under study. Our estimates indicate that the process should be readily measurable also in the second case. We quantify the polarization entanglement in the final state by a recently proposed multi-particle entanglement measure.

id: 1205.0330
title: Geometric global quantum discord
authors: Jianwei Xu
comments: 8 pages,no figure;added a lower bound for GGQD to version 1
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 405304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0330
abstract: Geometric quantum discord, proposed by Dakic, Vedral, and Brukner [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105 (2010) 190502], is an important measure for bipartite correlations. In this paper, we generalize it to multipartite states, we call the generalized version geometric global quantum discord (GGQD). We characterize GGQD in different ways, and provide some special states which allow analytical GGQD.

id: 1205.0341
title: Quantum Magnetism of Spin-Ladder Compounds with Trapped-Ion Crystals
authors: A. Bermudez, J. Almeida, K. Ott, H. Kaufmann, S. Ulm, U. Poschinger, F. Schmidt-Kaler, A. Retzker, M. B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14 093042 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0341
abstract: The quest for experimental platforms that allow for the exploration, and even control, of the interplay of low dimensionality and frustration is a fundamental challenge in several fields of quantum many-body physics, such as quantum magnetism. Here, we propose the use of cold crystals of trapped ions to study a variety of frustrated quantum spin ladders. By optimizing the trap geometry, we show how to tailor the low dimensionality of the models by changing the number of legs of the ladders. Combined with a method for selectively hiding of ions provided by laser addressing, it becomes possible to synthesize stripes of both triangular and Kagome lattices. Besides, the degree of frustration of the phonon-mediated spin interactions can be controlled by shaping the trap frequencies. We support our theoretical considerations by initial experiments with planar ion crystals, where a high and tunable anisotropy of the radial trap frequencies is demonstrated. We take into account an extensive list of possible error sources under typical experimental conditions, and describe explicit regimes that guarantee the validity of our scheme.

id: 1205.0366
title: Semi-classical formula for quantum tunneling in asymmetric double-well potentials
authors: Gianluca Rastelli
comments: (9 pages, 7 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012106 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0366
abstract: Despite quantum tunneling has been studied since the advent of quantum mechanics, the literature appears to contain no simple (textbook) formula for tunneling in generic asymmetric double-well potentials. In the regime of strong localization, we derive an succinct analytical formula based on the WKB semi-classical approach. Two different examples of asymmetric potentials are discussed: when the two localized levels are degenerate or not. For the first case, we also discuss a time-dependent problem showing quantum Zeno effect.

id: 1205.0378
title: Thermodynamics of Quantum Ultra-cold Neutron Gas under Gravity of The Earth
authors: Hiromi Kaneko, Akihiro Tohsaki, Atsushi Hosaka
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, Submitted to Progress of Theoretical Physics
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 128 (2012), 533-539
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0378
abstract: The stored ultra-cold neutrons have been developed. A high density ultra-cold neutron gas has been recently produced by using the nuclear spallation method. We investigate the thermodynamic properties of the quantum ultra-cold neutron gas in the Earth's gravitational field. We find that the quantum effects increase temperature dependence of the chemical potential and the internal energy in the low temperature region. The density distribution of quantum ultra-cold neutron gas is modified by the Earth's gravitational field.

id: 1205.0462
title: Fault-Tolerant Exact State Transmission
authors: Zhao-Ming Wang, Lian-Ao Wu, Michele Modugno, Wang Yao, Bin Shao
comments: 5 pages and 4 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 3128
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0462
abstract: We show that a category of one-dimensional XY-type models may enable high-fidelity quantum state transmissions, regardless of details of coupling configurations. This observation leads to a fault- tolerant design of a state transmission setup. The setup is fault-tolerant, with specified thresholds, against engineering failures of coupling configurations, fabrication imperfections or defects, and even time-dependent noises. We propose the implementation of the fault-tolerant scheme using hard-core bosons in one-dimensional optical lattices.

id: 1205.0486
title: Canonical quantization of the electromagnetic field interacting with a moving dielectric
authors: S. A. R. Horsley
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023830 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0486
abstract: The electromagnetic field is canonically quantized in the presence of a linear, dispersive and dissipative medium that is in uniform motion. Specifically we calculate the change in the normal modes of the coupled matter-field system and find a Hamiltonian that contains negative energy normal modes. We interpret these modes as the origin of phenomena such as quantum friction, and find that a detector initially in its ground state and coupled to the electromagnetic field in the vicinity of, or within a uniformly moving medium has a non-zero probability of excitation at T=0K.

id: 1205.0487
title: Hermitian and non-Hermitian formulations of the time evolution of quantum decay
authors: Gast¨®n Garc¨ªa-Calder¨®n, Alejandro M¨¢ttar, Jorge Villavicencio
comments: 6 pages,3 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. T151, 01476 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0487
abstract: This work discusses Hermitian and non-Hermitian formulations for the time evolution of quantum decay, that involve respectively, continuum wave functions and resonant states, to show that they lead to an identical description for a large class of well behaved potentials. Our approach is based on the analytical properties of the outgoing Green's function to the problem in the complex wave number plane.

id: 1205.0497
title: Multi-photon state engineering by heralded interference between single photons and coherent states
authors: Tim J. Bartley, Gaia Donati, Justin B. Spring, Xian-Min Jin, Marco Barbieri, Animesh Datta, Brian J. Smith, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures. Revised manuscript for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043820 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0497
abstract: We develop a technique for generating multi-photon nonclassical states via interference between coherent and Fock states using quantum catalysis. By modulating the coherent field strength, the number of catalyst photons and the ratio of the beam splitter upon which they interfere, a wide range of nonclassical phenomena can be created, including squeezing of up to 1.25 dB, anti- and super-bunched photon statistics and states exhibiting over 90% fidelity to displaced coherent superposition states. We perform quantum catalysis experimentally, showing tunability into the nonclassical regime. Our protocol is not limited by weak nonlinearities that underlie most known strategies of preparing multi-photon nonclassical states. Successive iterations of this protocol can lead to direct control over the weights of higher-order terms in the Fock basis, paving the way towards conditional preparation of "designer" multi-photon states for applications in quantum computation, communication and metrology.

id: 1205.0516
title: Heisenberg uncertainty relation for photons
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Zofia Bialynicka-Birula
comments: Sequel to PRL, 108, 140401 (2012); Submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022118 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0516
abstract: The idea to base the uncertainty relation for photons on the electromagnetic energy distribution in space enabled us to derive a sharp inequality that expresses the uncertainty relation [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 108}, 140401 (2012)]. An alternative version of the uncertainty relation derived in this paper is closer in spirit to the original Heisenberg relation because it employs the analog of the position operator for the photon---the center of energy operator. The noncommutativity of the components of the center of energy operator results in the increase of the bound $3/2\,\hbar$ in the standard Heisenberg uncertainty relation in three dimensions. This difference diminishes with the increase of the photon energy. In the limiting case of infinite momentum frame, the lower bound in the Heisenberg uncertainty relations for photons is the same as in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics.

id: 1205.0529
title: Quantum Search Algorithms on Hierarchical Networks
authors: F. L. Marquezino, R. Portugal, S. Boettcher
comments: IEEE Information Theory Workshop 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0529
abstract: The "abstract search algorithm" is a well known quantum method to find a marked vertex in a graph. It has been applied with success to searching algorithms for the hypercube and the two-dimensional grid. In this work we provide an example for which that method fails to provide the best algorithm in terms of time complexity. We analyze search algorithms in degree-3 hierarchical networks using quantum walks driven by non-groverian coins. Our conclusions are based on numerical simulations, but the hierarchical structures of the graphs seems to allow analytical results.

id: 1205.0590
title: Experimental preparation of eight-partite linear and two-diamond shape cluster states for photonic qumodes
authors: Xiaolong Su, Yaping Zhao, Shuhong Hao, Xiaojun Jia, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 37, 5178 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0590
abstract: The preparation of multipartite entangled states is the prerequisite for exploring quantum information networks and quantum computation. In this letter, we present the first experimental demonstration of eight-partite spatially separated CV entangled states. The initial resource quantum states are eight squeezed states of light, through the linearly optical transformation of which two types of the eight-partite cluster entangled states are prepared, respectively. The generated eight entangled photonic qumodes are spatially separated, which provide valuable quantum resources to implement more complicated quantum information task.

id: 1205.0592
title: Optimal PPTES witnesses for states in $\mathbb C^n\otimes \mathbb C^n$
authors: Kil-Chan Ha
comments: 3 pages
journal: Physical Review A 86, 014304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0592
abstract: Recently, X. Qi and J. Hou [Phys. Rev. A 85, 022334 (2012)] provided optimal entanglement witnesses without the spanning property. These witnesses are associated to indecomposable positive linear maps, but it is not checked whether partial transposes of these witnesses are also optimal. We show that partial transposes of these entanglement witnesses have spanning property, and these witnesses are indeed optimal PPTES witnesses (non-decomposable optimal entanglement witnesses).

id: 1205.0602
title: Multi-ion Mach-Zehnder interferometer with artificial nonlinear interactions
authors: Y. M. Hu, W. L. Yang, X. Xiao, Mang Feng, Chaohong Lee
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. B 23, (2014) 034205
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0602
abstract: We show how to implement a Mach-Zehnder interferometry based upon a string of trapped ions with artificial nonlinear interactions. By adiabatically sweeping down/up the coupling strength between two involved internal states of the ions, we could achieve the beam splitting/recombination. Based on current techniques for manipulating trapped ions, we discuss the experimental feasibility of our scheme and analyze some undesired uncertainty under realistic experimental environment.

id: 1205.0617
title: Entanglement amplification of fermionic systems in an accelerated frame
authors: Younghun Kwon, Jinho Chang
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. A86, 014302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0617
abstract: In this article we present an analysis to derive physical results in the entanglement amplification of fermonic systems in the relativistic regime, that is, beyond the single-mode approximation. This leads a recent work in [M. Montero and E. Mart\'{i}n-Mart\'{i}nez, JEHP 07 (2011) 006] to a physical result, and solidifies that phenomenon of entanglement amplification can actually happen in the relativistic regime.

id: 1205.0619
title: Weak measurement with orthogonal pre-selection and post-selection
authors: Shengshi Pang, Shengjun Wu, Zeng-Bing Chen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022112 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0619
abstract: Weak measurement is a novel quantum measurement scheme, which is usually characterized by the weak value formalism. To guarantee the validity of the weak value formalism, the fidelity between the pre-selection and the post-selection should not be too small generally. In this work, we study the weak measurement on a qubit system with exactly or asymptotically orthogonal pre- and post-selections. We shall establish a general rigorous framework for the weak measurement beyond the weak value formalism, and obtain the average output of a weak measurement when the pre- and post-selections are exactly orthogonal. We shall also study the asymptotic behavior of a weak measurement in the limiting process that the pre- and post-selections tend to be orthogonal.

id: 1205.0634
title: Unambiguous Examining the Orthogonality of Multiple Quantum States
authors: Shengshi Pang, Shengjun Wu
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 82, 042311 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0634
abstract: In this article, we study an opposite problem of universal quantum state comparison, that is unambiguous determining whether multiple unknown quantum states from a Hilbert space are orthogonal or not. We show that no unambiguous quantum measurement can accomplish this task with a non-zero probability. Moreover, we extend the problem to a more general case, that is to compare how orthogonal multiple unknown quantum states are with a threshold, and it turns out that given any threshold this extended task is also impossible by any unambiguous quantum measurement except for a trivial case. It will be seen that the impossibility revealed in our problem is stronger than that in the universal quantum state comparison problem and distinct from those in the existing "no-go" theorems.

id: 1205.0637
title: Coherent control of microwave pulse storage in superconducting circuits
authors: Patrick M. Leung, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures and some supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 253603 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0637
abstract: Coherent pulse control for quantum memory is viable in the optical domain but nascent in microwave quantum circuits. We show how to realize coherent storage and on-demand pulse retrieval entirely within a superconducting circuit by exploiting and extending existing electromagnetically induced transparency technology in superconducting quantum circuits. Our scheme employs a linear array of superconducting artificial atoms coupled to a microwave transmission line.

id: 1205.0639
title: A real space decoupling transformation for quantum many-body systems
authors: Glen Evenbly, Guifre Vidal
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, includes appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 220502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0639
abstract: We propose a real space renormalization group method to explicitly decouple into independent components a many-body system that, as in the phenomenon of spin-charge separation, exhibits separation of degrees of freedom at low energies. Our approach produces a branching holographic description of such systems that opens the path to the efficient simulation of the most entangled phases of quantum matter, such as those whose ground state violates a boundary law for entanglement entropy. As in the coarse-graining transformation of [Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 220405 (2007)], the key ingredient of this decoupling transformation is the concept of entanglement renormalization, or removal of short-range entanglement. We demonstrate the feasibility of the approach, both analytically and numerically, by decoupling in real space the ground state of a critical quantum spin chain into two. Generalized notions of RG flow and of scale invariance are also put forward.

id: 1205.0693
title: How long can it take for a quantum channel to forget everything?
authors: Andre Ahlbrecht, Florian Richter, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0693
abstract: We investigate quantum channels, which after a finite number $k$ of repeated applications erase all input information, i.e., channels whose $k$-th power (but no smaller power) is a completely depolarizing channel. We show that on a system with Hilbert space dimension $d$, the order is bounded by $k\leq d^2-1$, and give an explicit construction scheme for such channels. We also consider strictly forgetful memory channels, i.e., channels with an additional input and output in every step, which after exactly $k$ steps retain no information about the initial memory state. We establish an explicit representation for such channels showing that the same bound applies for the memory depth $k$ in terms of the memory dimension $d$.

id: 1205.0704
title: Experimental realization of light with time separated correlations by rephasing amplified spontaneous emission
authors: Patrick M. Ledingham, William R. Naylor, Jevon J. Longdell
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, the supplementary information pdf was uploaded with latex source files. This version accepted for publication in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0704
abstract: Amplified spontaneous emission is a common noise source in active optical systems, it is generally seen as being an incoherent process. Here we excite an ensemble of rare earth ion dopants in a solid with a {\pi}-pulse, resulting in amplified spontaneous emission. The application of a second {\pi}-pulse leads to a coherent echo of the amplified spontaneous emission that is correlated in both amplitude and phase. For small optical thicknesses, we see evidence that the amplified spontaneous emission and its echo are entangled.

id: 1205.0720
title: Non-monotonic entanglement of physical EM field states in non-inertial frames
authors: Miguel Montero, Marco del Rey, Eduardo Martin-Martinez
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0720
abstract: We develop a general technique to analyse the quantum effects of acceleration on realistic spatially-localised electromagnetic field states entangled in the polarization degree of freedom. We show that for this setting, quantum entanglement may build up as the acceleration increases, providing a clear signature of the quantum effects of relativistic acceleration.

id: 1205.0746
title: Higher-order Brunnian structures and possible physical realizations
authors: Nils A. Baas, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, K. Riisager, A. G. Volosniev, N. T. Zinner
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, revised version
journal: Physics of Atomic Nuclei, Volume 77, Issue 3, pages 361-368 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Topology (math.GN); Geometric Topology (math.GT); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0746
abstract: We consider few-body bound state systems and provide precise definitions of Borromean and Brunnian systems. The initial concepts are more than a hundred years old and originated in mathematical knot-theory as purely geometric considerations. About thirty years ago they were generalized and applied to the binding of systems in nature. It now appears that recent generalization to higher order Brunnian structures may potentially be realized as laboratory made or naturally occurring systems. With the binding energy as measure, we discuss possibilities of physical realization in nuclei, cold atoms, and condensed matter systems. Appearance is not excluded. However, both the form and the strengths of the interactions must be rather special. The most promising subfields for present searches would be in cold atoms because of external control of effective interactions, or perhaps in condensed-matter systems with non-local interactions. In nuclei, it would only be by sheer luck due to a lack of tunability.

id: 1205.0769
title: Equation of motion for multiqubit entanglement in multiple independent noisy channels
authors: Zhong-Xiao Man, Yun-Jie Xia, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 14 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 45 (2012) 195306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0769
abstract: We investigate the possibility and conditions to factorize the entanglement evolution of a multiqubit system passing through multi-sided noisy channels. By means of a lower bound of concurrence (LBC) as entanglement measure, we derive an explicit formula of LBC evolution of the N-qubit generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GGHZ) state under some typical noisy channels, based on which two kinds of factorizing conditions for the LBC evolution are presented. In this case, the time-dependent LBC can be determined by a product of initial LBC of the system and the LBC evolution of a maximally entangled GGHZ state under the same multi-sided noisy channels. We analyze the realistic situations where these two kinds of factorizing conditions can be satisfied. In addition, we also discuss the dependence of entanglement robustness on the number of the qubits and that of the noisy channels.

id: 1205.0771
title: Complete Entanglement Witness for Quantum Teleportation
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Shao-Ming Fei, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 3 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85 (2012) 054301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0771
abstract: We propose a set of linear quantum entanglement witnesses constituted by local quantum-mechanical observables with each two possible measurement outcomes. These witnesses detect all the entangled resources which give rise to a better fidelity than separable states in quantum teleportation and present both sufficient and necessary conditions in experimentally detecting the useful resources for quantum teleportation.

id: 1205.0798
title: Ancilla-Assisted Calibration of a Measuring Apparatus
authors: G. Brida, L. Ciavarella, I. P. Degiovanni, M. Genovese, A. Migdall, M. G. Mingolla, M. G. A. Paris, F. Piacentini, S. V. Polyakov
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 108, 253601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0798
abstract: A quantum measurement can be described by a set of matrices, one for each possible outcome, which represents the positive operator-valued measure (POVM) of the sensor. Efficient protocols of POVM extraction for arbitrary sensors are required. We present the first experimental POVM reconstruction that takes explicit advantage of a quantum resource, i.e., nonclassical correlations with an ancillary state. A POVM of a photon-number-resolving detector is reconstructed by using strong quantum correlations of twin beams generated by parametric down-conversion. Our reconstruction method is more statistically robust than POVM reconstruction methods that use classical input states.

id: 1205.0828
title: Property Testing of Quantum Measurements
authors: Guoming Wang
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0828
abstract: In this paper, we study the following question: given a black box performing some unknown quantum measurement on a multi-qudit system, how do we test whether this measurement has certain property or is far away from having this property. We call this task \textit{property testing} of quantum measurement. We first introduce a metric for quantum measurements, and show that it possesses many nice features. Then we show that, with respect to this metric, the following classes of measurements can be efficiently tested: 1. the stabilizer measurements, which play a crucial role for quantum error correction; 2. the $k$-local measurements, i.e. measurements whose outcomes depend on a subsystem of at most $k$ qudits; 3. the permutation-invariant measurements, which include those measurements used in quantum data compression, state estimation and entanglement concentration. In fact, all of them can be tested with query complexity independent of the system's dimension. Furthermore, we also present an algorithm that can test any finite set of measurements. Finally, we consider the following natural question: given two black-box measurement devices, how do we estimate their distance? We give an efficient algorithm for this task, and its query complexity is also independent of the system's dimension. As a consequence, we can easily test whether two unknown measurements are identical or very different.

id: 1205.0842
title: A min-entropy uncertainty relation for finite size cryptography
authors: Nelly Huei Ying Ng, Mario Berta, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 5+6 pages, 1 figure, revtex. new version changed author's name from Huei Ying Nelly Ng to Nelly Huei Ying Ng, for consistency with other publications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042315 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0842
abstract: Apart from their foundational significance, entropic uncertainty relations play a central role in proving the security of quantum cryptographic protocols. Of particular interest are thereby relations in terms of the smooth min-entropy for BB84 and six-state encodings. Previously, strong uncertainty relations were obtained which are valid in the limit of large block lengths. Here, we prove a new uncertainty relation in terms of the smooth min-entropy that is only marginally less strong, but has the crucial property that it can be applied to rather small block lengths. This paves the way for a practical implementation of many cryptographic protocols. As part of our proof we show tight uncertainty relations for a family of Renyi entropies that may be of independent interest.

id: 1205.0851
title: Experimental realization of large-alphabet quantum key distribution protocol using orbital angular momentum entanglement
authors: Shengmei Zhao, Longyan Gong, Yongqiang Li, Hua Yang, Yubo Sheng, Xiaoliang Dong, Fei Cao, Baoyu Zheng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0851
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol using photon pairs entangled in orbit angular momentum (OAM). In our protocol, Alice and Bob modulate their OAM states on each entangled pair with spatial light modulators (SLMs), respectively. Alice uses a fixed phase hologram in her SLM, while Bob designs $N$ different suitable phase holograms and uses them to represent his $N$-based information in his SLM. With coincidences, Alice can fully retrieve the key stream sent by Bob without information reconciliation or privacy amplification. We report the experiment results with N=3 and the sector states with OAM eigenmodes l=1 and l=-1. Our experiment shows that the coincidence rates are in relatively distinct value regions for the three different key elements. Alice could recover fully Bob's keys by the protocol. Finally, we discuss the security of the protocol both form the light way and against the general attacks.

id: 1205.0862
title: Cyclotron-Bloch dynamics of a quantum particle in a two-dimensional lattice II
authors: A. R. Kolovsky, I. Chesnokov, G. Mantica
comments: 22 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E {\bf 86}, 041146 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0862
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a charged particle in a two-dimensional lattice, subject to constant and homogeneous electric and magnetic fields. We find that different regimes characterize these motions, depending on a combination of conditions, corresponding to weak and strong electric field intensities, rational or irrational directions of the electric field with respect to the lattice, and small or large values of the magnetic (Peierls) phase.

id: 1205.0871
title: Quantum discord under system-environment coupling: the two-qubit case
authors: Jin-Shi Xu, Chuan-Feng Li
comments: Accepted by Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems" edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1345054 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0871
abstract: Open quantum systems have attracted great attention, since inevitable coupling between quantum systems and their environment greatly affects the features of interest of these systems. Quantum discord, is a measure of the total nonclassical correlation in a quantum system that includes, but is not exclusive to, the distinct property of quantum entanglement. Quantum discord can exist in separated quantum states and plays an important role in many fundamental physics problems and practical quantum information tasks. There have been numerous investigations on quantum discord and its counterpart classical correlation. This short review focuses on highlighting the system-environment dynamics of two-qubit quantum discord and the influence of initial system-environment correlations on the dynamics of open quantum systems. The external control effect on the dynamics of open quantum systems are involved. Several related experimental works are discussed.

id: 1205.0878
title: Are quantum correlations genuinely quantum?
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures, the appendices subsume arXiv:1107.0302v1 and arXiv:1105.0958v1. Close to published version
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, 27, 1345016 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0878
abstract: It is shown that the probabilities for the spin singlet can be reproduced through classical resources, with no communication between the distant parties, by using merely shared (pseudo-)randomness. If the parties are conscious beings aware of both the hidden-variables and the random mechanism, then one has a conspiracy. If the parties are aware of only the random variables, they may be induced to believe that they are able to send instantaneous information to one another. It is also possible to reproduce the correlations at the price of reducing the detection efficiency. It is further demonstrated that the same probability decomposition could be realized through action-at-a-distance, provided it existed.

id: 1205.0916
title: Stochastic electrodynamics and the interpretation of quantum physics
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: Article fully rewritten. Several errors corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0916
abstract: Arguments are given for the plausibility that quantum mechanics is a stochastic theory and that many quantum phenomena derive from the existence of a real noise consisting of vacuum fluctuations of the fields existing in nature. I revisit stochastic electrodynamics (SED), a theory that studies classical systems of electrically charged particles immersed in a real electromagnetic zeropoint field with spectral density proportional to the cube of the frequency, Planck's constant appearing as the parameter fixing the scale. Asides from briefly reviewing known results, I make a detailed comparison between SED and quantum mechanics which shows that both theories make different predictions in many cases. However SED might be a guide for a stochastic interpretation of quantum mechanics

id: 1205.0945
title: Connecting the von Neumann and Renyi entropies for Fermions
authors: Mark Fannes, Nicholas Van Ryn
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 385003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0945
abstract: We explore the relation between the von Neumann entropy and the Renyi entropies of integer orders for shift-invariant quasi-free Fermionic lattice systems. We investigate approximating the von Neumann entropy by a combination of integer-order Renyi entropies and give an estimate for the quality of such an approximation.

id: 1205.0954
title: Lower Bounds of Concurrence for Multipartite States
authors: Xue-Na Zhu, Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 13 pages
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. Advances in Quantum Theory, 1424(2012)77-86
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0954
abstract: We study the entanglement of multipartite quantum states. Some lower bounds of the multipartite concurrence are reviewed. We further present more effective lower bounds for detecting and qualifying entanglement, by establishing functional relations between the concurrence and the generalized partial transpositions of the multipartite systems.

id: 1205.0959
title: Improving the maximum transmission distance of continuous-variable quantum key distribution using a noiseless amplifier
authors: R¨¦mi Blandino, Anthony Leverrier, Marco Barbieri, Jean Etesse, Philippe Grangier, Rosa Tualle-Brouri
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012327 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0959
abstract: We show that the maximum transmission distance of continuous-variable quantum key distribution in presence of a Gaussian noisy lossy channel can be arbitrarily increased using a linear noiseless amplifier. We explicitly consider a protocol using amplitude and phase modulated coherent states with reverse reconciliation. We find that a noiseless amplifier with amplitude gain g can increase the maximum admissible losses by a factor 1/g^2.

id: 1205.0978
title: Arbitrary control of multiple-qubit systems in the symmetric Dicke subspace
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 033852 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0978
abstract: We discuss a general physical mechanism for arbitrary control of the quantum states of multiple qubits in the symmetric Dicke subspace. The qubit-qubit coupling leads to unequal energy spacing in the symmetric Dicke subspace. This allows one to manipulate a prechosen transition with an external driving source, with other transitions remaining off-resonant. Any entangled state in the symmetric Dicke subspace can be created from the initial ground state by tuning the driving source. We illustrate the idea in cavity QED, but it should be applicable to other related systems.

id: 1205.0979
title: Jaynes-Cummings model with a collective atomic mode
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0812.4726
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 045802 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0979
abstract: We study the dynamics of a single control atom and an atomic sample interacting with a nonresonant cavity mode. The control atom is driven by an auxiliary classical field. Under certain conditions, the coherent energy exchange between the control atom and the atomic sample induced by the cavity mode is described by the Jaynes-Cummings model. The idea provides a possibility for quantum-state engineering and reconstruction for collective atomic modes.

id: 1205.0981
title: State-independent teleportation of an atomic state between two cavities
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 044303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0981
abstract: A scheme is presented for the teleportation of an unknown atomic state between two separated cavities. The scheme involves two interaction-detection cycles and uses resonantly coupled atoms with an additional ground state not coupled to the cavity field. Remarkably, the damping of one basis state is balanced by that of the other basis state and the state with photon loss in the first interaction-detection cycle is eliminated by the second cycle. Therefore, the fidelity of teleportation is independent of the teleported state and insensitive to the atomic spontaneous emission, cavity decay, and detection inefficiency, which is obviously in contrast to the original scheme by Bose et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 83 5158 (1999).

id: 1205.0984
title: Dissipation-induced geometric phase for an atom in cavity QED
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0984
abstract: We present a feasible scheme to investigate the geometric phase for an atom trapped in an optical cavity induced by the effective decay process due to cavity photon loss. The cavity mode, together with the external driving fields, acts as the engineered environment of the atom. When the parameters of the reservoir is adiabatically and cyclically changed, the system initially in the nontrivial dark state of the effective Lindblad operator undergoes a cyclic evolution and acquires a geometric phase. The geometric phase can be observed with the atomic Ramsey interference oscillation in the decoherence-free subspace.

id: 1205.0985
title: Precisely timing dissipative quantum information processing
authors: M. J. Kastoryano, M. M. Wolf, J. Eisert
comments: 5+5 pages, material added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 110501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0985
abstract: Dissipative engineering constitutes a framework within which quantum information processing protocols are powered by system-environment interaction rather than by unitary dynamics alone. This framework embraces noise as a resource, and consequently, offers a number of advantages compared to one based on unitary dynamics alone, e.g., that the protocols are typically independent of the initial state of the system. However, the time independent nature of this scheme makes it difficult to imagine precisely timed sequential operations, conditional measurements or error correction. In this work, we provide a path around these challenges, by introducing basic dissipative gadgets which allow us to precisely initiate, trigger and time dissipative operations, while keeping the system Liouvillian time-independent. These gadgets open up novel perspectives for thinking of timed dissipative quantum information processing. As an example, we sketch how measurement based computation can be simulated in the dissipative setting.

id: 1205.0994
title: Non-equilibrium many-body effects in driven nonlinear resonator arrays
authors: T. Grujic, S. R. Clark, D. G. Angelakis, D. Jaksch
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 103025 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0994
abstract: We study the non-equilibrium behavior of optically driven dissipative coupled resonator arrays. Assuming each resonator is coupled with a two-level system via a Jaynes-Cummings interaction, we calculate the many-body steady state behavior of the system under coherent pumping and dissipation. We propose and analyze the many-body phases using experimentally accessible quantities such as the total excitation number, the emitted photon spectra and photon coherence functions for different parameter regimes. In parallel, we also compare and contrast the expected behavior of this system assuming the local nonlinearity in the cavities is generated by a generic Kerr effect rather than a Jaynes-Cummings interaction. We find that the behavior of the experimentally accessible observables produced by the two models differs for realistic regimes of interactions even when the corresponding nonlinearities are of similar strength. We analyze in detail the extra features available in the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard (JCH) model originating from the mixed nature of the excitations and investigate the regimes where the Kerr approximation would faithfully match the JCH physics. We find that the latter is true for values of the light-matter coupling and losses beyond the reach of current technology. Throughout the study we operate in the weak pumping, fully quantum mechanical regime where approaches such as mean field theory fail, and instead use a combination of quantum trajectories and the time evolving block decimation algorithm to compute the relevant steady state observables. In our study we have assumed small to medium size arrays (from 3 up to 16 sites) and values of the ratio of coupling to dissipation rate $g/\gamma \sim 20$ which makes our results implementable with current designs in Circuit QED and with near future photonic crystal set ups.

id: 1205.1021
title: Quantum correlations between each qubit in a two-atom system and the environment in terms of interatomic distance
authors: K. Berrada, F. F. Fanchini, S. Abdel-Khalek
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052315 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1021
abstract: The quantum correlations between a qubit and its environment are described quantitatively in terms of interatomic distance. Specifically, considering a realistic system of two two-level atoms and taking into account the dipole-dipole interaction and collective damping, the quantum entanglement and quantum discord are investigated, during the dissipative process, as a function of the interatomic distance. For atoms that are initially maximally entangled, it turns out that there is a critical distance where each atom is maximally quantum correlated with its environment. Counterintuitively, the approach of the two atoms can maximize the entanglement between each one and the environment and, even at the same distance, minimize the loss of entanglement between the pair.

id: 1205.1031
title: PPT-indistinguishable states via semidefinite programming
authors: Alessandro Cosentino
comments: 12 pages. Added section 4. Updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012321 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1031
abstract: We show a simple semidefinite program whose optimal value is equal to the maximum probability of perfectly distinguishing orthogonal maximally entangled states using any PPT measurement (a measurement whose operators are positive under partial transpose). When the states to be distinguished are given by the tensor product of Bell states, the semidefinite program simplifies to a linear program. In [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 020506 (2012) -- arXiv:1107.3224v1], Yu, Duan and Ying exhibit a set of 4 maximally entangled states in $C^4 \otimes C^4$, which is distinguishable by any PPT measurement only with probability strictly less than 1. Using semidefinite programming, we show a tight bound of 7/8 on this probability (3/4 for the case of unambiguous PPT measurements). We generalize this result by demonstrating a simple construction of a set of k states in $C^k \otimes C^k$ with the same property, for any k that is a power of 2. Finally, by running numerical experiments, we obtain some non-trivial results about the PPT-distinguishability of certain interesting sets of generalized Bell states in $C^5 \otimes C^5$ and $C^6 \otimes C^6$.

id: 1205.1046
title: Interplay between quantum phase transitions and the behavior of quantum correlations at finite temperatures
authors: T. Werlang, G. A. P. Ribeiro, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: v1: One column, 18 pages, 9 figures; submitted to Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems" edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral; v2: published version
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1345032 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1046
abstract: We review the main results and ideas showing that quantum correlations at finite temperatures (T), in particular quantum discord, are useful tools in characterizing quantum phase transitions that only occur, in principle, at the unattainable absolute zero temperature. We first review some interesting results about the behavior of thermal quantum discord for small spin-1/2 chains and show that they already give us important hints of the infinite chain behavior. We then study in detail and in the thermodynamic limit (infinite chains) the thermal quantum correlations for the XXZ and XY models, where one can clearly appreciate that the behavior of thermal quantum discord at finite T is a useful tool to spotlight the critical point of a quantum phase transition.

id: 1205.1052
title: Exotic quantum statistics of composite particles and frustrated quasiparticles
authors: Tieyan Si
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, new results are added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1052
abstract: We study the exotic quantum statistical behavior of composite particle of double-spin cluster and quasiparticle of triple-spin cluster in a four-spin quantum model. We constructed a four spin-1/2 model on a triangular star lattice but added frustrated coupling terms of plaquette quasiparticles. The eigenstates of this model are maximal entangled quantum states like Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state and Yeo-Chua's genuine four-qubit entangled state. We generalized the conventional definition for quantum statistics of two elementary particles to composite particle of multispin clusters. Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state and Yeo-Chua's genuine four-qubit entangled state showed different behavior according to this generalized definition. The quantum statistical behavior of the composite particle of double-spin cluster is neither boson nor fermion in ground state and some intermediate excited states. The triple-spin cluster of this model is eigen-quasiparticles. We perform permutation operation on the eigenstates of triple-spin plaquette operator according to this generalized definition for quantum statistics of multi-spin clusters, the statistical matrix of exchanging two triple-spin quasiparticles is far beyond fermion and boson. The von Neumann entropy of the triple-spin quasiparticle is also highly nontrivial. These nontrivial quantum statistical behavior of plaquette quasiparticles is helpful for decoding the non-abelian anyons in Kitaev honeycomb model.

id: 1205.1097
title: Bound states in a double delta potential via Laplace transform
authors: A. S. de Castro
comments: In Portuguese
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1097
abstract: The problem of bound states in a double delta potential is revisited by means of Laplace transform method. Quite differently from direct methods, no knowledge about the jump discontinuity of the first derivative of the eigenfunction is required to determine the solution.

id: 1205.1148
title: Robust Classification with Adiabatic Quantum Optimization
authors: Vasil S. Denchev, Nan Ding, S. V. N. Vishwanathan, Hartmut Neven
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, accepted by ICML 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1148
abstract: We propose a non-convex training objective for robust binary classification of data sets in which label noise is present. The design is guided by the intention of solving the resulting problem by adiabatic quantum optimization. Two requirements are imposed by the engineering constraints of existing quantum hardware: training problems are formulated as quadratic unconstrained binary optimization; and model parameters are represented as binary expansions of low bit-depth. In the present work we validate this approach by using a heuristic classical solver as a stand-in for quantum hardware. Testing on several popular data sets and comparing with a number of existing losses we find substantial advantages in robustness as measured by test error under increasing label noise. Robustness is enabled by the non-convexity of our hardware-compatible loss function, which we name q-loss.

id: 1205.1155
title: Nonrelativistic quantum dynamics on a cone with and without a constraining potential
authors: C. Filgueiras, E. O. Silva, F. M. Andrade
comments: Accepted for publication in Journal of Mathematical Physics, 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 122106 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1155
abstract: In this paper we investigate the bound state problem of nonrelativistic quantum particles on a conical surface. This kind of surface appears as a topological defect in ordinary semiconductors as well as in graphene sheets. Specifically, we compare and discuss the results stemming from two different approaches. In the first one, it is assumed that the charge carriers are bound to the surface by a constraining potential, while the second one is based on the Klein-Gordon type equation on surfaces, without the constraining potential. The main difference between both theories is the presence/absence of a potential which contains the mean curvature of a given surface. This fact changes the dependence of the bound states on the angular momentum $l$. Moreover, there are bound states that are absent in the Klein-Gordon theory, which instead appear in the Schr\"{o}dinger one.

id: 1205.1162
title: Classical, quantum and superquantum correlations
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Raffaele Romano
comments: 21 pages, submitted to Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems" edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1245011 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1162
abstract: A deeper understanding of the origin of quantum correlations is expected to shred light on the physical principles underlying quantum mechanics. In this work, we reconsider the possibility of devising "crypto-nonlocal theories", using a terminology firstly introduced by Leggett. We generalize and simplify the investigations on this subject which can be found in the literature. At their deeper level, such theories allow nonlocal correlations which can overcome the quantum limit.

id: 1205.1179
title: All entangled pure states violate a single Bell's inequality
authors: Sixia Yu, Qing Chen, Chengjie Zhang, C. H. Lai, C. H. Oh
comments: 7 pages 1 table and 1 appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 120402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1179
abstract: We show that a single Bell's inequality with two dichotomic observables for each observer, which is originated from Hardy's nonlocality proof without inequalities, is violated by all entangled pure states of a given number of particles, each of which may have a different number of energy levels. Thus Gisin's theorem is proved in its most general form from which it follows that for pure states Bell's nonlocality and quantum entanglement are equivalent.

id: 1205.1234
title: Quantum phase transition in the Dicke model with critical and non-critical entanglement
authors: L. Bakemeier, A. Alvermann, H. Fehske
comments: 1o pages, 10 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 043821 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1234
abstract: We study the quantum phase transition of the Dicke model in the classical oscillator limit, where it occurs already for finite spin length. In contrast to the classical spin limit, for which spin-oscillator entanglement diverges at the transition, entanglement in the classical oscillator limit remains small. We derive the quantum phase transition with identical critical behavior in the two classical limits and explain the differences with respect to quantum fluctuations around the mean-field ground state through an effective model for the oscillator degrees of freedom. With numerical data for the full quantum model we study convergence to the classical limits. We contrast the classical oscillator limit with the dual limit of a high frequency oscillator, where the spin degrees of freedom are described by the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model. An alternative limit can be defined for the Rabi case of spin length one-half, in which spin frequency renormalization replaces the quantum phase transition.

id: 1205.1235
title: Quantum Fine-Grained Entropy
authors: Dong-Sheng Wang
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1235
abstract: Regarding the strange properties of quantum entropy and entanglement, e.g., the negative quantum conditional entropy, we revisited the foundations of quantum entropy, namely, von Neumann entropy, and raised the new method of quantum fine-grained entropy. With the applications in entanglement theory, quantum information processing, and quantum thermodynamics, we demonstrated the capability of quantum fine-grained entropy to resolve some notable confusions and problems, including the measure of entanglement and quantumness, the additivity conjecture of entanglement of formation etc, and the definition of temperature for single quantum system.

id: 1205.1238
title: Sequential measurement of conjugate variables as an alternative quantum state tomography
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: v2, 5 pages, no figures, substantial improvements in the presentation, thanks to an anonymous referee. v3, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 010404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1238
abstract: It is shown how it is possible to reconstruct the initial state of a one-dimensional system by measuring sequentially two conjugate variables. The procedure relies on the quasi-characteristic function, the Fourier-transform of the Wigner quasi-probability. The proper characteristic function obtained by Fourier-transforming the experimentally accessible joint probability of observing "position" then "momentum" (or vice versa) can be expressed as a product of the quasi-characteristic function of the two detectors and that, unknown, of the quantum system. This allows state reconstruction through the sequence: data collection, Fourier-transform, algebraic operation, inverse Fourier-transform. The strength of the measurement should be intermediate for the procedure to work.

id: 1205.1263
title: The fate of non-trivial entanglement under gravitational collapse
authors: Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Luis J. Garay, Juan Leon
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. v2: Added Journal reference and small changes to match published version
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29 224006 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1263
abstract: We analyse the evolution of the entanglement of a non-trivial initial quantum field state (which, for simplicity, has been taken to be a bipartite state made out of vacuum and the first excited state) when it undergoes a gravitational collapse. We carry out this analysis by generalising the tools developed to study entanglement behaviour in stationary scenarios and making them suitable to deal with dynamical spacetimes. We also discuss what kind of problems can be tackled using the formalism spelled out here as well as single out future avenues of research.

id: 1205.1268
title: Vanishing Geometric Discord in Non-Inertial Frames
authors: Eric G. Brown, Kyle Cormier, Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Robert B. Mann
comments: 9 pages, revtex4, 2 figures. V2 Added journal reference and updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032108 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1268
abstract: We show that quantum field correlations in non-inertial frames are not as persistent as previously thought. We perform a simple calculation showing that the geometric discord, a measure of quantum correlations, does decay to zero in the infinite acceleration limit. This result is seen to be a natural and expected consequence of considering correlations in an infinite dimensional system, and it sheds doubt on the existence of useable quantum correlations in this regime. We contrast our results with previous research showing that the acceleration-induced degradation of quantum discord was not strong enough to extinguish discord in the large acceleration limit.

id: 1205.1288
title: Computability limits non-local correlations
authors: Tanvirul Islam, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042109 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1288
abstract: If the no-signalling principle was the only limit to the strength of non-local correlations, we would expect that any form of no-signalling correlation can indeed be realized. That is, there exists a state and measurements that remote parties can implement to obtain any such correlation. Here, we show that in any theory in which some functions cannot be computed, there must be further limits to non-local correlations than the no-signalling principle alone. We proceed to argue that even in a theory such as quantum mechanics in which non-local correlations are already weaker, the question of computability imposes such limits.

id: 1205.1298
title: Time-dependent Decoherence-Free Subspace
authors: S. L. Wu, L. C. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 405305 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1298
abstract: With time-dependent Lindblad operators, an open system may have a time-dependent decoherence-free subspace (t-DFS). In this paper, we define the t-DFS and present a necessary and sufficient condition for the t-DFS. Two examples are presented to illustrate the t-DFS, showing that this t-DFS is not trivial, when the dimension of the t-DFS varies.

id: 1205.1300
title: Quantum Discord, Decoherence and Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Indrani Bose, Amit Kumar Pal
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures, To appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems" edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, Vol. 27, No. 1-3, 1345042 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1300
abstract: Quantum discord is a more general measure of quantum correlations than entanglement and has been proposed as a resource in certain quantum information processing tasks. The computation of discord is mostly confined to two-qubit systems for which an analytical calculational scheme is available. The utilization of quantum correlations in quantum information-based applications is limited by the problem of decoherence, i.e., the loss of coherence due to the inevitable interaction of a quantum system with its environment. The dynamics of quantum correlations due to decoherence may be studied in the Kraus operator formalism for different types of quantum channels representing system-environment interactions. In this review, we describe the salient features of the dynamics of classical and quantum correlations in a two-qubit system under Markovian (memoryless) time evolution. The two-qubit state considered is described by the reduced density matrix obtained from the ground state of a spin model. The models considered include the transverse-field XY model in one dimension, a special case of which is the transverse-field Ising model, and the $XXZ$ spin chain. The quantum channels studied include the amplitude damping, bit-flip, bit-phase-flip and phase-flip channels. The Kraus operator formalism is briefly introduced and the origins of different types of dynamics discussed. One can identify appropriate quantities associated with the dynamics of quantum correlations which provide signatures of quantum phase transitions in the spin models. Experimental observations of the different types of dynamics are also mentioned.

id: 1205.1307
title: Coherence-protected Quantum Gate by Continuous Dynamical Decoupling in Diamond
authors: Xiangkun Xu, Zixiang Wang, Changkui Duan, Pu Huang, Pengfei Wang, Ya Wang, Nanyang Xu, Xi Kong, Fazhan Shi, Xing Rong, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1307
abstract: To implement reliable quantum information processing, quantum gates have to be protected together with the qubits from decoherence. Here we demonstrate experimentally on nitrogen-vacancy system that by using continuous wave dynamical decoupling method, not only the coherence time is prolonged by about 20 times, but also the quantum gates is protected for the duration of controlling time. This protocol shares the merits of retaining the superiority of prolonging the coherence time and at the same time easily combining with quantum logic tasks. It is expected to be useful in task where duration of quantum controlling exceeds far beyond the dephasing time.

id: 1205.1328
title: Relativistic Quantum Information in Detectors-Field Interactions
authors: B. L. Hu, Shih-Yuin Lin, Jorma Louko
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures. Prepared for the special focus issue on RQI
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29 (2012) 224005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1328
abstract: We review Unruh-DeWitt detectors and other models of detector-field interaction in a relativistic quantum field theory setting as a tool for extracting detector-detector, field-field and detector-field correlation functions of interest in quantum information science, from entanglement dynamics to quantum teleportation. We in particular highlight the contrast between the results obtained from linear perturbation theory which can be justified provided switching effects are properly accounted for, and the nonperturbative effects from available analytic expressions which incorporate the backreaction effects of the quantum field on the detector behaviour.

id: 1205.1347
title: Quantum Refrigerator and the III-law of Thermodynamics
authors: Amikam Levy, Robert Alicki, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. E. 85,061126 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1347
abstract: The rate of temperature decrease of a cooled quantum bath is studied as its temperature is reduced to the absolute zero. The III-law of thermodynamics is then quantified dynamically by evaluating the characteristic exponent {\zeta} of the cooling process dT(t)/dt \sim -T^{\zeta} when approaching the absolute zero, T \rightarrow 0. A continuous model of a quantum refrigerator is employed consisting of a working medium composed either by two coupled harmonic oscillators or two coupled 2-level systems. The refrigerator is a nonlinear device merging three currents from three heat baths: a cold bath to be cooled, a hot bath as an entropy sink, and a driving bath which is the source of cooling power. A heat driven refrigerator (absorption refrigerator) is compared to a power driven refrigerator. When optimized both cases lead to the same exponent {\zeta}, showing a lack of dependence on the form of the working medium and the characteristics of the drivers. The characteristic exponent is therefore determined by the properties of the cold reservoir and its interaction with the system. Two generic heat baths models are considered, a bath composed of harmonic oscillators and a bath composed from ideal Bose/Fermi gas. The restrictions on the interaction Hamiltonian imposed by the III-law are discussed. In the appendix the theory of periodicaly driven open systems and its implication to thermodynamics is outlined.

id: 1205.1360
title: A universally valid Heisenberg uncertainty relation
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062117 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1360
abstract: A universally valid Heisenberg uncertainty relation is proposed by combining the universally valid error-disturbance uncertainty relation of Ozawa with the relation of Robertson. This form of the uncertainty relation, which is defined with the same mathematical rigor as the relations of Kennard and Robertson, incorporates both of the intrinsic quantum fluctuations and measurement effects.

id: 1205.1362
title: Single ion heat engine with maximum efficiency at maximum power
authors: Obinna Abah, Johannes Rossnagel, Georg Jacob, Sebastian Deffner, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler, Kilian Singer, Eric Lutz
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 109, 203006 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1362
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to realize a nano heat engine with a single ion. An Otto cycle may be implemented by confining the ion in a linear Paul trap with tapered geometry and coupling it to engineered laser reservoirs. The quantum efficiency at maximum power is analytically determined in various regimes. Moreover, Monte Carlo simulations of the engine are performed that demonstrate its feasibility and its ability to operate at maximum efficiency of 30% under realistic conditions.

id: 1205.1379
title: Numerical time propagation of quantum systems in radiation fields
authors: A. Alvermann, H. Fehske, P. B. Littlewood
comments: 23 pages, 11 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 105008 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1379
abstract: Atoms, molecules or excitonic quasiparticles, for which excitations are induced by external radiation fields and energy is dissipated through radiative decay, are examples of driven open quantum systems. We explain the use of commutator-free exponential time-propagators for the numerical solution of the associated Schr\"odinger or master equations with a time-dependent Hamilton operator. These time-propagators are based on the Magnus series but avoid the computation of commutators, which makes them suitable for the efficient propagation of systems with a large number of degrees of freedom. We present an optimized fourth order propagator and demonstrate its efficiency in comparison to the direct Runge-Kutta computation. As an illustrative example we consider the parametrically driven dissipative Dicke model, for which we calculate the periodic steady state and the optical emission spectrum.

id: 1205.1399
title: Multisetting Bell inequalities for $N$ spins-1 avoiding KS contradiction
authors: Arijit Dutta, Marcin Wie?niak, Marek ?ukowski
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Published version, Phys. Rev. A 86, 032111
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1399
abstract: Bell's theorem for systems more complicated than two qubits faces a hidden, as yet undiscussed, problem. One of the methods to derive Bell's inequalities is to assume existence of joint probability distribution for measurement results for all settings in the given experiment. However for spins-1, one faces the problem that eigenvalues of observables do not allow a consistent algebra if one allows all possible settings on each side (Bell 1966 contradiction), or some specific sets (leading to a Kochen-Specker 1967 contradiction). We show here that by choosing special set of settings which never lead to inconsistent algebra of eigenvalues, one can still derive multisetting Bell inequalities, and that they are robustly violated. Violation factors increase with the number of subsystems. The inequalities involve only spin observables, we do not allow all possible qutrit observables, still the violations are strong.

id: 1205.1416
title: On a proposal of superluminal communication
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Raffaele Romano
comments: Latex, 11 pages, 1 figures. Submitted for publication
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 232001 (FTC) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1416
abstract: Recently, various new proposals of superluminal transmission of information have appeared in the literature. Since they make systematic resort to recent formal and practical improvements in quantum mechanics, the old theorems proving the impossibility of such a performance must be adapted to the new scenario. In this paper we consider some of the most challenging proposals of this kind and we show why they cannot work.

id: 1205.1424
title: Quantum benchmarking with realistic states of light
authors: Nathan Killoran, Mahdi Hosseini, Ben C. Buchler, Ping Koy Lam, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures. Updated to more closely match the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022331 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1424
abstract: The goal of quantum benchmarking is to certify that imperfect quantum communication devices (e.g., quantum channels, quantum memories, quantum key distribution systems) can still be used for meaningful quantum communication. However, the test states used in quantum benchmarking experiments may be imperfect as well. Many quantum benchmarks are only valid for states which match some ideal form, such as pure states or Gaussian states. We outline how to perform quantum benchmarking using arbitrary states of light. We demonstrate these results using real data taken from a continuous-variable quantum memory.

id: 1205.1439
title: Are quantum states real?
authors: Lucien Hardy
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures. Remarks added concerning fact that ontic indifference assumption is violated in Spekkens toy model
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1439
abstract: In this paper we consider theories in which reality is described by some underlying variables. Each value these variables can take represents an ontic state (a particular state of reality). The preparation of a quantum state corresponds to a distribution over the ontic states. If we make three basic assumptions, we can show that the distributions over ontic states corresponding to distinct pure states are non-overlapping. This means that we can deduce the quantum state from a knowledge of the ontic state. Hence, if these assumptions are correct, we can claim that the quantum state is a real thing (it is written into the underlying variables that describe reality). The key assumption we use in this proof is ontic indifference - that quantum transformations that do not affect a given pure quantum state can be implemented in such a way that they do not affect the ontic states in the support of that state. In fact this assumption is violated in the Spekkens toy model (which captures many aspects of quantum theory and in which different pure states of the model have overlapping distributions over ontic states). This paper proves that ontic indifference must be violated in any model reproducing quantum theory in which the quantum state is not a real thing. The argument presented in this paper is different from that given in a recent paper by Pusey, Barrett, and Rudolph. It uses a different key assumption and it pertains to a single copy of the system in question.

id: 1205.1475
title: Local simulation of singlet statistics for restricted set of measurement
authors: Ashutosh Rai, MD. Rajjak Gazi, Manik Banik, Subhadipa Das, Samir Kunkri
comments: 2 column, 5 pages, 4 figures, new references, abstract modified, accepted in JPA
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 475302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1475
abstract: The essence of Bell's theorem is that, in general, quantum statistics cannot be reproduced by local hidden variable (LHV) model. This impossibility is strongly manifested while analyzing the singlet state statistics for Bell-CHSH violations. In this work, we provide various subsets of two outcome POVMs for which a local hidden variable model can be constructed for singlet state.

id: 1205.1494
title: Stable Three-Axis Nuclear Spin Gyroscope in Diamond
authors: Ashok Ajoy, Paola Cappellaro
comments: 5+3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1494
abstract: We propose a sensitive and stable three-axis gyroscope in diamond. We achieve high sensitivity by exploiting the long coherence time of the N14 nuclear spin associated with the Nitrogen-Vacancy center in diamond, and the efficient polarization and measurement of its electronic spin. While the gyroscope is based on a simple Ramsey interferometry scheme, we use coherent control of the quantum sensor to improve its coherence time as well as its robustness against long-time drifts, thus achieving a very robust device with a resolution of 0.5mdeg/s/(Hz mm^3)^(1/2). In addition, we exploit the four axes of delocalization of the Nitrogen-Vacancy center to measure not only the rate of rotation, but also its direction, thus obtaining a compact three-axis gyroscope.

id: 1205.1495
title: Temporally multiplexed storage of images in a Gradient Echo Memory
authors: Quentin Glorieux, Jeremy B. Clark, Alberto M. Marino, Zhifan Zhou, Paul D. Lett
comments: 9 pages, to be published in Optics Express
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 11, pp. 12350-12358 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1495
abstract: We study the storage and retrieval of images in a hot atomic vapor using the gradient echo memory protocol. We demonstrate that this technique allows for the storage of multiple spatial modes. We study both spatial and temporal multiplexing by storing a sequence of two different images in the atomic vapor. The effect of atomic diffusion on the spatial resolution is discussed and characterized experimentally. For short storage time a normalized cross-correlation between a retrieved image and its input of 88 % is reported.

id: 1205.1497
title: Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution with Entanglement in the Middle
authors: Christian Weedbrook
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022308 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1497
abstract: We analyze the performance of continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocols where the entangled source originates not from one of the trusted parties, Alice or Bob, but from the malicious eavesdropper in the middle. This is in contrast to the typical simulations where Alice creates the entangled source and sends it over an insecure quantum channel to Bob. By using previous techniques and identifying certain error correction protocol equivalences, we show that Alice and Bob do not need to trust their source, and can still generate a positive key rate. Such a situation can occur in a quantum network where the untrusted source originated in between the two users.

id: 1205.1534
title: Learning-Graph-Based Quantum Algorithm for k-distinctness
authors: Aleksandrs Belovs
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures, major changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1534
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm solving the $k$-distinctness problem in $O(n^{1-2^{k-2}/(2^k-1)})$ queries with a bounded error. This improves the previous $O(n^{k/(k+1)})$-query algorithm by Ambainis. The construction uses a modified learning graph approach. Compared to the recent paper by Belovs and Lee arXiv:1108.3022, the algorithm doesn't require any prior information on the input, and the complexity analysis is much simpler. Additionally, we introduce an $O(\sqrt{n}\alpha^{1/6})$ algorithm for the graph collision problem where $\alpha$ is the independence number of the graph.

id: 1205.1619
title: Quantum Theory as emergent from an undulatory translocal Sub-Quantum Level
authors: Manfred Requardt
comments: 32 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1619
abstract: We argue that quantum theory is a low-energy effective theory which emerges from some sub-quantum level theory which is of an undulatory and translocal character. We show the close connection of quantum theory with both gravity and the holographic principle which are different phenomena of one and the same theory on this primordial level. An important role in our analysis is played by the concept of a generalized renormalization group connecting this primordial level and e.g. quantum theory plus a continuous space-time. We show that characteristic phenomena like the seemingly instantaneous state reduction, the EPR-paradox or the problem of polydimensions can be understood in our undulatory translocal theory in a realistic way. Most importantly, we give a realistic interpretation of the phasefunction as a collective action variable in the spirit of Bohm and explain the emergence of a macroscopic notion of time.

id: 1205.1681
title: A Signal Processing Model of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Chris Thron, Johnny Watts
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1681
abstract: This paper develops a deterministic model of quantum mechanics as an accumulation-and-threshold process. The model arises from an analogy with signal processing in wireless communications. Complex wavefunctions are interpreted as expressing the amplitude and phase information of a modulated carrier wave. Particle transmission events are modeled as the outcome of a process of signal accumulation that occurs in an extra (non-spacetime) dimension. Besides giving a natural interpretation of the wavefunction and the Born rule, the model accommodates the collapse of the wave packet and other quantum paradoxes such as EPR and the Ahanorov-Bohm effect. The model also gives a new perspective on the 'relational' nature of quantum mechanics: that is, whether the wave function of a physical system is "real" or simply reflects the observer's partial knowledge of the system. We simulate the model for a 2-slit experiment, and indicate possible deviations of the model's predictions from conventional quantum mechanics. We also indicate how the theory may be extended to a field theory.

id: 1205.1704
title: Accurate calculation of the solutions to the Thomas-Fermi equations
authors: Paolo Amore, John P. Boyd, Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1704
abstract: We obtain highly accurate solutions to the Thomas-Fermi equations for atoms and atoms in very strong magnetic fields. We apply the Pad\'e-Hankel method, numerical integration, power series with Pad\'e and Hermite-Pad\'e approximants and Chebyshev polynomials. Both the slope at origin and the location of the right boundary in the magnetic-field case are given with unprecedented accuracy.

id: 1205.1712
title: On the strong converses for the quantum channel capacity theorems
authors: Naresh Sharma, Naqueeb Ahmad Warsi
comments: Added the strong converse for the erasure channel for maximally entangled inputs and corrected minor typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1712
abstract: A unified approach to prove the converses for the quantum channel capacity theorems is presented. These converses include the strong converse theorems for classical or quantum information transfer with error exponents and novel explicit upper bounds on the fidelity measures reminiscent of the Wolfowitz strong converse for the classical channel capacity theorems. We provide a new proof for the error exponents for the classical information transfer. A long standing problem in quantum information theory has been to find out the strong converse for the channel capacity theorem when quantum information is sent across the channel. We give the quantum error exponent thereby giving a one-shot exponential upper bound on the fidelity. We then apply our results to show that the strong converse holds for the quantum information transfer across an erasure channel for maximally entangled channel inputs.

id: 1205.1717
title: A proposal for a scalable universal bosonic simulator using individually trapped ions
authors: Hoi-Kwan Lau, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1717
abstract: We describe a possible architecture to implement a universal bosonic simulator (UBS) using trapped ions. Single ions are confined in individual traps, and their motional states represent the bosonic modes. Single-mode linear operators, nonlinear phase-shifts, and linear beam splitters can be realized by precisely controlling the trapping potentials. All the processes in a bosonic simulation, except the initialization and the readout, can be conducted beyond the Lamb-Dicke regime. Aspects of our proposal can also be applied to split adiabatically a pair of ions in a single trap.

id: 1205.1742
title: Ground State Spin Logic
authors: J. D. Whitfield, M. Faccin, J. D. Biamonte
comments: 6 pages + 3 pages appendix, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: EPL 99 (2012) 57004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1742
abstract: Designing and optimizing cost functions and energy landscapes is a problem encountered in many fields of science and engineering. These landscapes and cost functions can be embedded and annealed in experimentally controllable spin Hamiltonians. Using an approach based on group theory and symmetries, we examine the embedding of Boolean logic gates into the ground state subspace of such spin systems. We describe parameterized families of diagonal Hamiltonians and symmetry operations which preserve the ground state subspace encoding the truth tables of Boolean formulas. The ground state embeddings of adder circuits are used to illustrate how gates are combined and simplified using symmetry. Our work is relevant for experimental demonstrations of ground state embeddings found in both classical optimization as well as adiabatic quantum optimization.

id: 1205.1792
title: Geometric Phase Optics
authors: B. Zygelman
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 86, 042704 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1792
abstract: We introduce, and propagate wave-packet solutions of, a single qubit system in which geometric gauge forces and phases emerge. We investigate under what conditions non-trivial gauge phenomena arise, and demonstrate how symmetry breaking is an essential ingredient for realization of the former. We illustrate how a "magnetic"-lens, for neutral atoms, can be constructed and find application in the manipulation and interferometry of cold atoms.

id: 1205.1836
title: Simple quantum error detection and correction for superconducting qubits
authors: Kyle Keane, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1836
abstract: We analyze simple quantum error detection and quantum error correction protocols relevant to current experiments with superconducting qubits. We show that for qubits with energy relaxation the repetitive N-qubit codes cannot be used for quantum error correction, but can be used for quantum error detection. In the latter case it is sufficient to use only two qubits for the encoding. In the analysis we demonstrate a useful technique of unraveling the qubit energy relaxation into "relaxation" and "no relaxation" scenarios. Also, we propose and numerically analyze several two-qubit algorithms for quantum error detection/correction, which can be readily realized at the present-day level of the phase qubit technology.

id: 1205.1850
title: Increasing the dimensionality of quantum walks using multiple walkers
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Andreas Schreiber, Martin Stefanak, Igor Jex, Alexei Gilchrist, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 9 pages
journal: Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience, 10, 1644 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1850
abstract: We show that with the addition of multiple walkers, quantum walks on a line can be transformed into lattice graphs of higher dimension. Thus, multi-walker walks can simulate single-walker walks on higher dimensional graphs and vice versa. This exponential complexity opens up new applications for present-day quantum walk experiments. We discuss the applications of such higher-dimensional structures and how they relate to linear optics quantum computing. In particular we show that multi-walker quantum walks are equivalent to the BosonSampling model for linear optics quantum computation proposed by Aaronson & Arkhipov. With the addition of control over phase-defects in the lattice, which can be simulated with entangling gates, asymmetric lattice structures can be constructed which are universal for quantum computation.

id: 1205.1884
title: Parity Measurement in Ultrastrong Coupling Regime
authors: Jing Yan Haw, Yimin Wang, Valerio Scarani
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1884
abstract: The measurement of the parity of two qubits is a primitive of quantum computing that allows creating deterministic entanglement. In the field of circuit quantum electrodynamics, a scheme to achieve parity measurement of two superconducting qubits has been proposed and analyzed under the usual rotating-wave approximation (RWA). We show that the same scheme can be carried over beyond this approximation, to the regime of ultrastrong coupling, with an improvement in the fidelity.

id: 1205.1910
title: Multi-qubit parity measurement in circuit quantum electrodynamics
authors: David P. DiVincenzo, Firat Solgun
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, v2: 21 pages, 5 figures, enlarged discussion of surface code implementation with 3D techniques
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1910
abstract: We present a concept for performing direct parity measurements on three or more qubits in microwave structures with superconducting resonators coupled to Josephson-junction qubits. We write the quantum-eraser conditions that must be fulfilled for the parity measurements as requirements for the scattering phase shift of our microwave structure. We show that these conditions can be fulfilled with present-day devices. We present one particular scheme, implemented with two-dimensional cavity techniques, in which each qubit should be coupled equally to two different microwave cavities. The magnitudes of the couplings that are needed are in the range that has been achieved in current experiments. A quantum calculation indicates that the measurement is optimal if the scattering signal can be measured with near single photon sensitivity. A comparison with an extension of a related proposal from cavity optics is presented. We present a second scheme, for which a scalable implementation of the four-qubit parities of the surface quantum error correction code can be envisioned. It uses three-dimensional cavity structures, using cavity symmetries to achieve the necessary multiple resonant modes within a single resonant structure.

id: 1205.1968
title: Increasing the dimension in high-dimensional two-photon orbital angular momentum entanglement
authors: J. Romero, D. Giovannini, S. Franke-Anold, S. M. Barnett, M. J. Padgett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1968
abstract: Any practical experiment utilising the innate D-dimensional entanglement of the orbital angular momentum (OAM) state space of photons is subject to the modal capacity of the detection system. We show that given such a constraint, the number of measured, entangled OAM modes in photon pairs generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) can be maximised by tuning the phase-matching conditions in the SPDC process. We demonstrate a factor of 2 increase on the half-width of the OAM-correlation spectrum, from 10 to 20, the latter implying \approx 50 -dimensional two-photon OAM entanglement. Exploiting correlations in the conjugate variable, angular position, we measure concurrence values 0.96 and 0.90 for two phase-matching conditions, indicating bipartite, D-dimensional entanglement where D is tuneable.

id: 1205.1969
title: Absolute detector calibration using twin beams
authors: Jan Perina Jr, Ondrej Haderka, Vaclav Michalek, Martin Hamar
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: Optics Letters 37, 2475 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1969
abstract: A method for the determination of absolute quantum detection efficiency is suggested based on the measurement of photocount statistics of twin beams. The measured histograms of joint signal-idler photocount statistics allow to eliminate an additional noise superimposed on an ideal calibration field composed of only photon pairs. This makes the method superior above other approaches presently used. Twin beams are described using a paired variant of quantum superposition of signal and noise.

id: 1205.1979
title: Entanglement Witnesses and Measures for Bright Squeezed Vacuum
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Falk T?ppel, Pavel Sekatski, Maria V. Chekhova
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022323 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1979
abstract: Quantum entanglement is a fascinating phenomenon, especially if it is observed at the macroscopic scale. Importantly, macroscopic quantum correlations can be revealed only by accurate measurement outcomes and strategies. Here, we formulate feasible entanglement witnesses for bright squeezed vacuum in the form of the macroscopically populated polarization triplet Bell states. Their testing involves efficient photodetection and the measurement of the Stokes operators variances. We also calculate the measures of entanglement for these states such as the Schmidt number and the logarithmic negativity. Our results show that the bright squeezed vacuum degree of polarization entanglement scales as the mean photon number squared. We analyze the applicability of an operational analog of the Schmidt number.

id: 1205.2024
title: Quantum teleportation and entanglement distribution over 100-kilometre free-space channels
authors: Juan Yin, Ji-Gang Ren, He Lu, Yuan Cao, Hai-Lin Yong, Yu-Ping Wu, Chang Liu, Sheng-Kai Liao, Fei Zhou, Yan Jiang, Xin-Dong Cai, Ping Xu, Ge-Sheng Pan, Jian-Jun Jia, Yong-Mei Huang, Hao Yin, Jian-Yu Wang, Yu-Ao Chen, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Nature 488 185-188 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2024
abstract: A long standing goal for quantum communication is to transfer a quantum state over arbitrary distances. Free-space quantum communication provides a promising solution towards this challenging goal. Here, through a 97-km free space channel, we demonstrate long distance quantum teleportation over a 35-53 dB loss one-link channel, and entanglement distribution over a 66-85 dB high-loss two-link channel. We achieve an average fidelity of {80.4(9)}% for teleporting six distinct initial states and observe the violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality after distributing entanglement. Besides being of fundamental interest, our result represents a significant step towards a global quantum network. Moreover, the high-frequency and high-accuracy acquiring, pointing and tracking technique developed in our experiment provides an essential tool for future satellite-based quantum communication.

id: 1205.2068
title: Equilibration and thermalization of the dissipative quantum harmonic oscillator in a non-thermal environment
authors: D. Pagel, A. Alvermann, H. Fehske
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 012127 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2068
abstract: We study the dissipative quantum harmonic oscillator with general non-thermal preparations of the harmonic oscillator bath. The focus is on equilibration of the oscillator in the long-time limit and the additional requirements for thermalization. Our study is based on the exact solution of the microscopic model obtained by means of operator equations of motion, which provides us with the time evolution of the central oscillator density matrix in terms of the propagating function. We find a hierarchy of conditions for thermalization, together with the relation of the asymptotic temperature to the energy distribution in the initial bath state. We discuss the presence and absence of equilibration for the example of an inhomogeneous chain of harmonic oscillators, and illustrate the general findings about thermalization for the non-thermal environment that results from a quench.

id: 1205.2076
title: Three-body amplification of photon heat tunneling
authors: Riccardo Messina, Mauro Antezza, Philippe Ben-Abdallah
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 244302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2076
abstract: Resonant tunneling of surface polaritons across a subwavelength vacuum gap between two polar or metallic bodies at different temperatures leads to an almost monochromatic heat transfer which can exceed by several orders of magnitude the far-field upper limit predicted by Planck's blackbody theory. However, despite its strong magnitude, this transfer is very far from the maximum theoretical limit predicted in near-field. Here we propose an amplifier for the photon heat tunneling based on a passive relay system intercalated between the two bodies, which is able to partially compensate the intrinsic exponential damping of energy transmission probability thanks to three-body interaction mechanisms. As an immediate corollary, we show that the exalted transfer observed in near-field between two media can be exported at larger separation distances using such a relay. Photon heat tunneling assisted by three-body interactions enables novel applications for thermal management at nanoscale, near-field energy conversion and infrared spectroscopy.

id: 1205.2098
title: Detecting quantum correlations in separable systems
authors: S. Adhikari, A. S. Majumdar, I. Chakraborty
comments: This paper has been withdrawn due to an error
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2098
abstract: Quantum correlations in composite and separable quantum systems are characterized by non-vanishing quantum discord. We demonstrate the necessary and sufficient conditions for existence of hermitian witness operators for quantum discord, bypassing the problem of non-convexity of the set of all classical states. We propose an example of a linear witness which can detect quantum correlations in large classes of separable bipartite systems. Decomposition of the witness in terms of a small number of locally measurable operators as shown here, paves the way for experimental detection of quantum correlations beyond entanglement.

id: 1205.2178
title: Reduced equations of motion for quantum systems driven by diffusive Markov processes
authors: Mohan Sarovar, Matthew D. Grace
comments: 4+ pages plus appendices. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 130401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2178
abstract: The expansion of a stochastic Liouville equation for the coupled evolution of a quantum system and an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process into a hierarchy of coupled differential equations is a useful technique that simplifies the simulation of stochastically-driven quantum systems. We expand the applicability of this technique by completely characterizing the class of diffusive Markov processes for which a useful hierarchy of equations can be derived. The expansion of this technique enables the examination of quantum systems driven by non-Gaussian stochastic processes with bounded range. We present an application of this extended technique by simulating Stark-tuned F\"orster resonance transfer in Rydberg atoms with non-perturbative position fluctuations.

id: 1205.2187
title: Model checking quantum Markov chains
authors: Yuan Feng, Nengkun Yu, Mingsheng Ying
comments: Journal version
journal: Journal of Computer and System Sciences 2013, 79, 1181-1198
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2187
abstract: Although the security of quantum cryptography is provable based on the principles of quantum mechanics, it can be compromised by the flaws in the design of quantum protocols and the noise in their physical implementations. So, it is indispensable to develop techniques of verifying and debugging quantum cryptographic systems. Model-checking has proved to be effective in the verification of classical cryptographic protocols, but an essential difficulty arises when it is applied to quantum systems: the state space of a quantum system is always a continuum even when its dimension is finite. To overcome this difficulty, we introduce a novel notion of quantum Markov chain, specially suited to model quantum cryptographic protocols, in which quantum effects are entirely encoded into super-operators labelling transitions, leaving the location information (nodes) being classical. Then we define a quantum extension of probabilistic computation tree logic (PCTL) and develop a model-checking algorithm for quantum Markov chains.

id: 1205.2207
title: Quantum Twist to Complementarity: A Duality Relation
authors: Tabish Qureshi
comments: Final version, to appear as letter in Prog. Theor. Exp. Phys
journal: Prog. Theor. Exp. Phys. (2013) 041A01
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2207
abstract: Some recent works have introduced a quantum twist to the concept of complementarity, exemplified by a setup in which the which-way detector is in a superposition of being present and absent. It has been argued that such experiments allow measurement of particle-like and wave-like behavior at the same time. Here we derive an inequality which puts a bound on the visibility of interference and the amount of which-way information that one can obtain, in the context of such modified experiments. As the wave-aspect can only be revealed by an ensemble of detections, we argue that in such experiments, a single detection can contribute only to one subensemble, corresponding to either wave-aspect or particle aspect. This way, each detected particle behaves either as particle or as wave, never both, and Bohr's complementarity is fully respected.

id: 1205.2218
title: Background-free quantum frequency conversion of single photons from a semiconductor quantum dot
authors: Serkan Ates, Imad Agha, Antonio Badolato, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2218
abstract: We demonstrate background-free quantum frequency conversion of single photons from an epitaxially-grown InAs quantum dot. Single photons at \approx 980 nm are combined with a pump laser near 1550 nm inside a periodically-poled lithium niobate (PPLN) waveguide, generating single photons at \approx 600 nm. The large red-detuning between the pump and signal wavelengths ensures nearly background-free conversion, avoiding processes such as upconversion of anti-Stokes Raman scattered pump photons in the PPLN crystal. Second-order correlation measurements on the single photon stream are performed both before and after conversion, confirming the preservation of photon statistics during the frequency conversion process.

id: 1205.2241
title: Tomographic readout of an opto-mechanical interferometer
authors: Henning Kaufer, Andreas Sawadsky, Tobias Westphal, Daniel Friedrich, Roman Schnabel
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2241
abstract: The quantum state of light changes its nature when being reflected off a mechanical oscillator due to the latter's susceptibility to radiation pressure. As a result, a coherent state can transform into a squeezed state and can get entangled with the motion of the oscillator. The complete tomographic reconstruction of the state of light requires the ability to readout arbitrary quadratures. Here we demonstrate such a readout by applying a balanced homodyne detector to an interferometric position measurement of a thermally excited high-Q silicon nitride membrane in a Michelson-Sagnac interferometer. A readout noise of $\unit{1.9 \cdot 10^{-16}}{\metre/\sqrt{\hertz}}$ around the membrane's fundamental oscillation mode at $\unit{133}{\kilo\hertz}$ has been achieved, going below the peak value of the standard quantum limit by a factor of 8.2 (9 dB). The readout noise was entirely dominated by shot noise in a rather broad frequency range around the mechanical resonance.

id: 1205.2246
title: Quantum public-key algorithms to encrypt and authenticate quantum messages with information-theoretic security
authors: Min Liang, Li Yang
comments: 30 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2246
abstract: Public-key cryptosystems for quantum messages are considered from two aspects: public-key encryption and public-key authentication. Firstly, we propose a general construction of quantum public-key encryption scheme, and then construct an information-theoretic secure instance. Then, we propose a quantum public-key authentication scheme, which can protect the integrity of quantum messages. This scheme can both encrypt and authenticate quantum messages. It is information-theoretic secure with regard to encryption, and the success probability of tampering decreases exponentially with the security parameter with regard to authentication. Compared with classical public-key cryptosystems, one private-key in our schemes corresponds to an exponential number of public-keys, and every quantum public-key used by the sender is an unknown quantum state to the sender.

id: 1205.2300
title: Quantum Tomography via Compressed Sensing: Error Bounds, Sample Complexity, and Efficient Estimators
authors: Steven T. Flammia, David Gross, Yi-Kai Liu, Jens Eisert
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures. Matlab code included with the source files
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 095022 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2300
abstract: Intuitively, if a density operator has small rank, then it should be easier to estimate from experimental data, since in this case only a few eigenvectors need to be learned. We prove two complementary results that confirm this intuition. First, we show that a low-rank density matrix can be estimated using fewer copies of the state, i.e., the sample complexity of tomography decreases with the rank. Second, we show that unknown low-rank states can be reconstructed from an incomplete set of measurements, using techniques from compressed sensing and matrix completion. These techniques use simple Pauli measurements, and their output can be certified without making any assumptions about the unknown state. We give a new theoretical analysis of compressed tomography, based on the restricted isometry property (RIP) for low-rank matrices. Using these tools, we obtain near-optimal error bounds, for the realistic situation where the data contains noise due to finite statistics, and the density matrix is full-rank with decaying eigenvalues. We also obtain upper-bounds on the sample complexity of compressed tomography, and almost-matching lower bounds on the sample complexity of any procedure using adaptive sequences of Pauli measurements. Using numerical simulations, we compare the performance of two compressed sensing estimators with standard maximum-likelihood estimation (MLE). We find that, given comparable experimental resources, the compressed sensing estimators consistently produce higher-fidelity state reconstructions than MLE. In addition, the use of an incomplete set of measurements leads to faster classical processing with no loss of accuracy. Finally, we show how to certify the accuracy of a low rank estimate using direct fidelity estimation and we describe a method for compressed quantum process tomography that works for processes with small Kraus rank.

id: 1205.2306
title: Information Theoretic Axioms for Quantum Theory
authors: Marco Zaopo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2306
abstract: In this paper we derive the complex Hilbert space formalism of quantum theory from four simple information theoretic axioms. It is shown that quantum theory is the only non classical probabilistic theory satisfying the following axioms: distinguishability, conservation, reversibility, composition. The new results of this reconstruction compared to other reconstructions by other authors are: (i) we get rid of axiom "subspace" in favor of axiom conservation eliminating mathematical requirements contained in previous axiomatics; (ii) we are able to classify all the probabilistic theories that are consistent requiring (a) only the first two axioms (b) only the first three axioms; this could be useful in experimental tests of quantum theory since it gives the possibility to understand whether or not other mathematical models could be consistent with such tests; (iii) we provide a connection between two different approaches to quantum foundations, quantum logic and the one based on information theoretic primitives showing that any theory satisfying the first two axioms given above either is classical or is a theory in which physical systems are described by a projective geometry.

id: 1205.2312
title: Electrostatic-field-induced dynamics in an ultrathin quantum well
authors: Ilki Kim
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2312
abstract: We consider the time evolution of a particle subjected to both a uniform electrostatic field F and a one-dimensional delta-function potential well. We derive the propagator K_F(x,t|x',0) of this system, directly leading to the wavefunction psi_F(x,t), in which its essential ingredient K_F(0,t|0,0), accounting for the ionization-recombination in the bound-continuum transition, is exactly expressed in terms of the multiple hypergeometric functions F(z_1,z_2,...,z_n). And then we obtain the ingredient K_F(0,t|0,0) in an appropriate approximation scheme, expressed in terms of the generalized hypergeometric functions p_F_q(z) being much more transparent to physically interpret and much more accessible in their numerical evaluation than the functions F(z_1,z_2,...,z_n).

id: 1205.2329
title: A novel vortex generator and mode converter for electrons
authors: Peter Schattschneider, Michael Stoeger-Pollach, Johan Verbeeck
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2329
abstract: A mode converter for electron vortex beams is described. Numerical simulations, confirmed by experiment, show that the converter transforms a vortex beam with topological charge $m=\pm 1$ into beams closely resembling Hermite-Gaussian HG$_{10}$ and HG$_{01}$ modes. The converter can be used as a mode discriminator or filter for electron vortex beams. Combining the converter with a phase plate turns a plane wave into modes with topological charge $m=\pm 1$. This combination serves as a generator of electron vortex beams of high brilliance.

id: 1205.2339
title: Classification and Measurement of Multipartite Quantum Entanglements
authors: Seyed Arash Sheikholeslam, Thomas Aaron Gulliver
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2339
abstract: This paper presents a new measure of entanglement which can be employed for multipartite entangled systems. The classification of multipartite entangled systems based on this measure is considered. Two approaches to applying this measure to mixed quantum states are discussed.

id: 1205.2348
title: Decoherence induced by fluctuating boundaries
authors: V.A.De Lorenci, L.H. Ford
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2348
abstract: The effects of fluctuating boundaries on a superposition state of a quantum particle in a box is studied. We consider a model in one space dimension in which the initial state is a coherent superposition of two energy eigenstates. The locations of the walls of the box are assumed to undergo small fluctuation with a Gaussian probability distribution. The spatial probability density of the particle contains an interference term, which is found to decay in time due to the boundary fluctuations. At late times, this term vanishes and the quantum coherence is lost. The system is now described by a density matrix rather than a pure quantum state.This model gives a simple illustration of how environment-induced decoherence can take place in quantum systems. It can also serve as an analog model for the effects of spacetime geometry fluctuations on quantum systems.

id: 1205.2360
title: Optical wavelength conversion via optomechanical coupling in a silica resonator
authors: Chunhua Dong, Victor Fiore, Mark C. Kuzyk, Lin Tian, Hailin Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2360
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of converting coherent optical fields between two different optical wavelengths by coupling two optical modes to a mechanical breathing mode in a silica resonator. The experiment is based on an itinerant approach, in which state-mapping from optical to mechanical and from mechanical to another optical state takes place simultaneously. In contrast to conventional nonlinear optical processes, optomechanical impedance matching as well as efficient optical input-output coupling, instead of phase-matching, plays a crucial role in optomechanics-based wavelength conversion.

id: 1205.2390
title: Quantum Ternary Circuit Synthesis Using Projection Operations
authors: Sudhindu Bikash Mandal, Amlan Chakrabarti, Susmita Sur-Kolay
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2390
abstract: Basic logic gates and their operations in ternary quantum domain are involved in the synthesis of ternary quantum circuits. Only a few works define ternary algebra for ternary quantum logic realization. In this paper, a ternary logic function is expressed in terms of projection operations including a new one. A method to realize new multi-qutrit ternary gates in terms of generalized ternary gates and projection operations is also presented. We also introduced ten simplification rules for reducing ancilla qutrits and gate levels. Our method yields lower gate cost and fewer gate levels and ancilla qutrits than that obtained by earlier methods for the ternary benchmark circuits. The $n$ qutrit ternary sum function is synthesized without any ancilla qutrit by our proposed methodology.

id: 1205.2401
title: Deterministic protocol for mapping a qubit to coherent state superpositions in a cavity
authors: Zaki Leghtas, Gerhard Kirchmair, Brian Vlastakis, Michel Devoret, Rob Schoelkopf, Mazyar Mirrahimi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042315 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2401
abstract: We introduce a new gate that transfers an arbitrary state of a qubit into a superposition of two quasi-orthogonal coherent states of a cavity mode, with opposite phases. This qcMAP gate is based on conditional qubit and cavity operations exploiting the energy level dispersive shifts, in the regime where they are much stronger than the cavity and qubit linewidths. The generation of multi-component superpositions of quasi-orthogonal coherent states, non-local entangled states of two resonators and multi-qubit GHZ states can be efficiently achieved by this gate.

id: 1205.2402
title: Dynamical decoupling of a qubit with always-on control fields
authors: N. Cody Jones, Thaddeus D. Ladd, Bryan H. Fong
comments: 22 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 093045
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2402
abstract: We consider dynamical decoupling schemes in which the qubit is continuously manipulated by a control field at all times. Building on the theory of the Uhrig Dynamical Decoupling sequence (UDD) and its connections to Chebyshev polynomials, we derive a method of always-on control by expressing the UDD control field as a Fourier series. We then truncate this series and numerically optimize the series coefficients for decoupling, constructing the CAFE (Chebyshev and Fourier Expansion) sequence. This approach generates a bounded, continuous control field. We simulate the decoupling effectiveness of our sequence vs. a continuous version of UDD for a qubit coupled to fully-quantum and semi-classical dephasing baths and find comparable performance. We derive filter functions for continuous-control decoupling sequences, and we assess how robust such sequences are to noise on control fields. The methods we employ provide a variety of tools to analyze continuous-control dynamical decoupling sequences.

id: 1205.2405
title: Does nonlinear metrology offer improved resolution? Answers from quantum information theory
authors: Michael J. W. Hall, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. X 2, 041006 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2405
abstract: A number of authors have suggested that nonlinear interactions can enhance resolution of phase shifts beyond the usual Heisenberg scaling of 1/n, where n is a measure of resources such as the number of subsystems of the probe state or the mean photon number of the probe state. These suggestions are based on calculations of `local precision' for particular nonlinear schemes. However, we show that there is no simple connection between the local precision and the average estimation error for these schemes, leading to a scaling puzzle. This puzzle is partially resolved by a careful analysis of iterative implementations of the suggested nonlinear schemes. However, it is shown that the suggested nonlinear schemes are still limited to an exponential scaling in \sqrt{n}. (This scaling may be compared to the exponential scaling in n which is achievable if multiple passes are allowed, even for linear schemes.) The question of whether nonlinear schemes may have a scaling advantage in the presence of loss is left open. Our results are based on a new bound for average estimation error that depends on (i) an entropic measure of the degree to which the probe state can encode a reference phase value, called the G-asymmetry, and (ii) any prior information about the phase shift. This bound is asymptotically stronger than bounds based on the variance of the phase shift generator. The G-asymmetry is also shown to directly bound the average information gained per estimate. Our results hold for any prior distribution of the shift parameter, and generalise to estimates of any shift generated by an operator with discrete eigenvalues.

id: 1205.2421
title: Experimental simulation of quantum tunneling in small systems
authors: Guan Ru Feng, Yao Lu, Liang Hao, Fei Hao Zhang, Gui Lu Long
comments: 17 pages and 8 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 2232 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2421
abstract: It is well known that quantum computers are superior to classical computers in efficiently simulating quantum systems. Here we report the first experimental simulation of quantum tunneling through potential barriers, a widespread phenomenon of a unique quantum nature, via NMR techniques. Our experiment is based on a digital particle simulation algorithm and requires very few spin-1/2 nuclei without the need of ancillary qubits. The occurrence of quantum tunneling through a barrier, together with the oscillation of the state in potential wells, are clearly observed through the experimental results. This experiment has clearly demonstrated the possibility to observe and study profound physical phenomena within even the reach of small quantum computers.

id: 1205.2490
title: Experimental characterization of quantum dynamics through many-body interactions
authors: Daniel Nigg, Julio T. Barreiro, Philipp Schindler, Masoud Mohseni, Thomas Monz, Michael Chwalla, Markus Hennrich, Rainer Blatt
comments: (7 pages, 4 figures) This is part of a joint submission with an implementation with hyperentangled photons: "Hyperentanglement-enabled Direct Characterization of Quantum Dynamics" by T.M. Graham, J.T. Barreiro, M. Mohseni and P.G. Kwiat
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 060403 (2013) [5 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2490
abstract: We report on the implementation of a quantum process tomography (QPT) technique known as direct characterization of quantum dynamics (DCQD) applied on coherent and incoherent single- qubit processes in a system of trapped calcium 40 ions. Using quantum correlations with an ancilla qubit, DCQD reduces exponentially the number of experimental configurations required for standard QPT. With this technique, the system's relaxation times T1 and T2 were measured with a single experimental configuration. We further show the first complete characterization of single-qubit processes using a single generalized measurement realized through multi-body correlations with three ancilla qubits.

id: 1205.2507
title: Entanglement susceptibility: Area laws and beyond
authors: Paolo Zanardi, Lorenzo Campos Venuti
comments: minor corrections, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2507
abstract: Generic quantum states in the Hilbert space of a many body system are nearly maximally entangled whereas low energy physical states are not; the so-called area laws for quantum entanglement are widespread. In this paper we introduce the novel concept of entanglement susceptibility by expanding the 2-Renyi entropy in the boundary couplings. We show how this concept leads to the emergence of area laws for bi-partite quantum entanglement in systems ruled by local gapped Hamiltonians. Entanglement susceptibility also captures quantitatively which violations one should expect when the system becomes gapless. We also discuss an exact series expansion of the 2-Renyi entanglement entropy in terms of connected correlation functions of a boundary term. This is obtained by identifying Renyi entropy with ground state fidelity in a doubled and twisted theory.

id: 1205.2514
title: Entangled Singularity patterns of Photons in Ince-Gauss modes
authors: Mario Krenn, Robert Fickler, Marcus Huber, Radek Lapkiewicz, William Plick, Sven Ramelow, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012326 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2514
abstract: Photons with complex spatial mode structures open up possibilities for new fundamental high-dimensional quantum experiments and for novel quantum information tasks. Here we show for the first time entanglement of photons with complex vortex and singularity patterns called Ince-Gauss modes. In these modes, the position and number of singularities vary depending on the mode parameters. We verify 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional entanglement of Ince-Gauss modes. By measuring one photon and thereby defining its singularity pattern, we non-locally steer the singularity structure of its entangled partner, while the initial singularity structure of the photons is undefined. In addition we measure an Ince-Gauss specific quantum-correlation function with possible use in future quantum communication protocols.

id: 1205.2520
title: Local exclusion principle for identical particles obeying intermediate and fractional statistics
authors: Douglas Lundholm, Jan Philip Solovej
comments: Revised and accepted version. 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062106 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2520
abstract: A local exclusion principle is observed for identical particles obeying intermediate/fractional exchange statistics in one and two dimensions, leading to bounds for the kinetic energy in terms of the density. This has implications for models of Lieb-Liniger and Calogero-Sutherland type, and implies a non-trivial lower bound for the energy of the anyon gas whenever the statistics parameter is an odd numerator fraction. We discuss whether this is actually a necessary requirement.

id: 1205.2545
title: Quantum dynamics of the damped harmonic oscillator
authors: T. G. Philbin
comments: 31 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2545
abstract: The quantum theory of the damped harmonic oscillator has been a subject of continual investigation since the 1930s. The obstacle to quantization created by the dissipation of energy is usually dealt with by including a discrete set of additional harmonic oscillators as a reservoir. But a discrete reservoir cannot directly yield dynamics such as Ohmic damping (proportional to velocity) of the oscillator of interest. By using a continuum of oscillators as a reservoir, we canonically quantize the harmonic oscillator with Ohmic damping and also with general damping behaviour. The dynamics of a damped oscillator is determined by an arbitrary effective susceptibility that obeys Kramers-Kronig relations. This approach offers an alternative description of nano-mechanical oscillators and opto-mechanical systems.

id: 1205.2561
title: Geometry of mixed states for a q-bit and the quantum Fisher information tensor
authors: E. Ercolessi, M. Schiavina
comments: 20 pages; Abstract and Introduction modified, references added. Final published version
journal: 2012 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 365303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2561
abstract: After a review of the pure state case, we discuss from a geometrical point of view the meaning of the quantum Fisher metric in the case of mixed states for a two-level system, i.e. for a q-bit, by examining the structure of the fiber bundle of states, whose base space can be identified with a co-adjoint orbit of the unitary group. We show that the Fisher Information metric coincides with the one induced by the metric of the manifold of SU(2), i.e. the 3-dimensional sphere $S^3$, when the mixing coefficients are varied. We define the notion of Fisher Tensor and show that its anti-symmetric part is intrinsically related to the Kostant Kirillov Souriau symplectic form that is naturally defined on co-adjoint orbits, while the symmetric part is nontrivially again represented by the Fubini Study metric on the space of mixed states, weighted by the mixing coefficients.

id: 1205.2563
title: Quantum computation from a de Broglie-Bohm perspective
authors: Philipp Roser
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures. This paper contains some of the technical results of arXiv:1012.4843v1 [quant-ph] in a more compact form as well as an extension thereof
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2563
abstract: We consider an example of a quantum algorithm from the point of view of the de Broglie-Bohm formulation of quantum mechanics. For concreteness we look at two particular implementations: one using spin-1/2 particles as described by a simple model due to Bell and the other as energy states in an infinite-well potential. We extend the analysis to encompass a complete set of quantum gates. We conclude by discussing the relevance of our investigations for the debate about the origin of the quantum-computational speed-up.

id: 1205.2587
title: Hyperentanglement-enabled Direct Characterization of Quantum Dynamics
authors: Trent M. Graham, Julio T. Barreiro, Masoud Mohseni, Paul G. Kwiat
comments: This is part of a joint submission with an implementation with Ions: "Experimental characterization of quantum dynamics through many-body interactions" by Daniel Nigg, Julio T. Barreiro, Philipp Schindler, Masoud Mohseni, Thomas Monz, Michael Chwalla, Markus Hennrich and Rainer Blatt
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 060404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2587
abstract: We use hyperentangled photons to experimentally implement an entanglement-assisted quantum process tomography technique known as Direct Characterization of Quantum Dynamics. Specifically, hyperentanglement-assisted Bell-state analysis enabled us to characterize a variety of single-qubit quantum processes using far fewer experimental configurations than are required by Standard Quantum Process Tomography (SQPT). Furthermore, we demonstrate how known errors in Bell-state measurement may be compensated for in the data analysis. Using these techniques, we have obtained single-qubit process fidelities as high as 98.2% but with one-third the number experimental configurations required for SQPT. Extensions of these techniques to multi-qubit quantum processes are discussed.

id: 1205.2594
title: Opening up the Quantum Three-Box Problem with Undetectable Measurements
authors: Richard E. George, Lucio Robledo, Owen Maroney, Machiel Blok, Hannes Bernien, Matthew L. Markham, Daniel J. Twitchen, John J. L. Morton, G. Andrew D. Briggs, Ronald Hanson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2594
abstract: One of the most striking features of quantum mechanics is the profound effect exerted by measurements alone. Sophisticated quantum control is now available in several experimental systems, exposing discrepancies between quantum and classical mechanics whenever measurement induces disturbance of the interrogated system. In practice, such discrepancies may frequently be explained as the back-action required by quantum mechanics adding quantum noise to a classical signal. Here we implement the 'three-box' quantum game of Aharonov and Vaidman in which quantum measurements add no detectable noise to a classical signal, by utilising state-of-the-art control and measurement of the nitrogen vacancy centre in diamond. Quantum and classical mechanics then make contradictory predictions for the same experimental procedure, however classical observers cannot invoke measurement-induced disturbance to explain this discrepancy. We quantify the residual disturbance of our measurements and obtain data that rule out any classical model by > 7.8 standard deviations, allowing us for the first time to exclude the property of macroscopic state-definiteness from our system. Our experiment is then equivalent to a Kochen-Spekker test of quantum non-contextuality that successfully addresses the measurement detectability loophole.

id: 1205.2667
title: Multipartite Entanglement Evolution Under Separable Operations
authors: Vlad Gheorghiu, Gilad Gour
comments: Replaced by the published version, comments are welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 050302 (R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2667
abstract: We study how multi-partite entanglement evolves under the paradigm of separable operations, which include the local operations and classical communication (LOCC) as a special case. We prove that the average "decay" of entanglement induced by a separable operation is measure independent (among SL-invariant ones) and state independent: the ratio between the average output entanglement and the initial entanglement is solely a function of the separable operation, regardless of the input state and of the SL-invariant entanglement measure being used. We discuss the "disentangling power" of a quantum channel and show that it exhibits a similar state invariance as the average entanglement decay ratio. Our Rapid Communication significantly extends the bipartite results of Ref. [1-3] as well as the multi-partite one of Ref. [4], all of the previous work being restricted to one-sided or particular noise models.

id: 1205.2674
title: Improved numerical methods for infinite spin chains with long-range interactions
authors: V. Nebendahl, W. D¨¹r
comments: Main text: 17 pages plus references, 8 figures. Supplementary info: 6 pages. v2: improved presentation and more results added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 075413 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2674
abstract: We present several improvements of the infinite matrix product state (iMPS) algorithm for finding ground states of one-dimensional quantum systems with long-range interactions. As a main new ingredient we introduce the superposed multi-optimization (SMO) method, which allows an efficient optimization of exponentially many MPS of different length at different sites all in one step. Hereby the algorithm becomes protected against position dependent effects as caused by spontaneously broken translational invariance. So far, these have been a major obstacle to convergence for the iMPS algorithm if no prior knowledge of the systems translational symmetry was accessible. Further, we investigate some more general methods to speed up calculations and improve convergence, which might be partially interesting in a much broader context, too. As a more special problem, we also look into translational invariant states close to an invariance braking phase transition and show how to avoid convergence into wrong local minima for such systems. Finally, we apply the new methods to polar bosons with long-range interactions. We calculate several detailed Devil's Staircases with the corresponding phase diagrams and investigate some supersolid properties.

id: 1205.2725
title: High Fidelity Adiabatic Quantum Computation via Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Gregory Quiroz, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042333 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2725
abstract: We introduce high-order dynamical decoupling strategies for open system adiabatic quantum computation. Our numerical results demonstrate that a judicious choice of high-order dynamical decoupling method, in conjunction with an encoding which allows computation to proceed alongside decoupling, can dramatically enhance the fidelity of adiabatic quantum computation in spite of decoherence.

id: 1205.2728
title: Mutual Preservation of Entanglement
authors: Andrzej Veitia, Jun Jing, Ting Yu, Chee Wei Wong
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2728
abstract: We study a generalized double Jaynes-Cummings (JC) model where two entangled pairs of two-level atoms interact indirectly. We focus on the case where the cavities and the entangled pairs are uncorrelated. We show that there exist initial states of the qubit system so that two entangled pairs are available at all times. In particular, the minimum entanglement in the pairs as a function of the initial state is studied. Finally, we extend our findings to a model consisting of multi-mode atom-cavity interactions. We use a non-Markovian quantum state diffusion (QSD) equation to obtain the steady-state density matrix for the qubits. We show that the multi-mode model also displays dynamical preservation of entanglement.

id: 1205.2734
title: Eistein-Podolski-Rosen paradox, non-commuting operator, complete wavefunction and entanglement
authors: Andrew Das Arulsamy
comments: To be published in Pramana Journal of Physics
journal: Pramana Journal of Physics 82 (2014) 477
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2734
abstract: Einstein, Podolski and Rosen (EPR) have shown that any wave function (subject to the Schr\"odinger equation) can describe the physical reality completely, and any two observables associated to two non-commuting operators can have simultaneous reality. In contrast, quantum theory claims that the wave function can capture the physical reality completely, and the physical quantities associated to two non-commuting operators cannot have simultaneous reality. The above contradiction is known as the EPR paradox. Here, we unambiguously expose that there is a hidden assumption made by EPR, which gives rise to this famous paradox. Putting the assumption right this time leads us not to the paradox, but only reinforces the correctness of the quantum theory. However, it is shown here that the entanglement phenomenon between two physically separated particles (they were entangled prior to separation) can only be proven to exist with a "proper" measurement.

id: 1205.2741
title: Multiple images storage and frequency conversion in a cold atomic ensemble
authors: Dong-Sheng Ding, Jing-Hui Wu, Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Bao-Sen Shi, Xu-Bo Zou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Frequency-multiplexed image storage,high efficiency storage and conversion for an image
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2741
abstract: The strong demand for quantum memory, a key building block of quantum network, has inspired new methodologies and led to experimental progress for quantum storage. The use of quantum memory for spatial multimode or image storage could dramatically increase the channel bit-rate. Furthermore, quantum memory that can store multiple optical modes would lead to higher efficiencies in quantum communication and computation. Here, by using resonant tripod electromagnetically induced transparency in a cold atomic ensemble, we experimentally demonstrate multiple probes storage in frequency domain, where two probe fields have discrete wavelengths and different spatial information. In addition, by using different read-light, we realize frequency conversion of retrieved images with high efficiency. Besides, our method could be used to create a superposition of the images by realizing the function of a beamsplitter. All advantages make our method useful in many fields including quantum information, detection, imaging, sensing and even astrophysical observation.

id: 1205.2747
title: Graph representation of quantum states
authors: Bibhas Adhikari, Satyabrata Adhikari, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2747
abstract: In this work we propose graphical representation of quantum states. Pure states require weighted digraphs with complex weights, while mixed states need, in general, edge weighted digraphs with loops; constructions which, to the best of our knowledge, are new in the theory of graphs. Both the combinatorial as well as the signless Laplacian are used for graph representation of quantum states. We also provide some interesting analogies between physical processes and graph representations. Entanglement between two qubits is approached by the development of graph operations that simulate quantum operations, resulting in the generation of Bell and Werner states. As a biproduct, the study also leads to separability criteria using graph operations. This paves the way for a study of genuine multipartite correlations using graph operations.

id: 1205.2761
title: Multi-Prover Quantum Merlin-Arthur Proof Systems with Small Gap
authors: Attila Pereszl¨¦nyi
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2761
abstract: This paper studies multiple-proof quantum Merlin-Arthur (QMA) proof systems in the setting when the completeness-soundness gap is small. Small means that we only lower-bound the gap with an inverse-exponential function of the input length, or with an even smaller function. Using the protocol of Blier and Tapp [arXiv:0709.0738], we show that in this case the proof system has the same expressive power as non-deterministic exponential time (NEXP). Since single-proof QMA proof systems, with the same bound on the gap, have expressive power at most exponential time (EXP), we get a separation between single and multi-prover proof systems in the 'small-gap setting', under the assumption that EXP is not equal to NEXP. This implies, among others, the nonexistence of certain operators called disentanglers (defined by Aaronson et al. [arXiv:0804.0802]), with good approximation parameters. We also show that in this setting the proof system has the same expressive power if we restrict the verifier to be able to perform only Bell-measurements, i.e., using a BellQMA verifier. This is not known to hold in the usual setting, when the gap is bounded by an inverse-polynomial function of the input length. To show this we use the protocol of Chen and Drucker [arXiv:1011.0716]. The only caveat here is that we need at least a linear amount of proofs to achieve the power of NEXP, while in the previous setting two proofs were enough. We also study the case when the proof-lengths are only logarithmic in the input length and observe that in some cases the expressive power decreases. However, we show that it doesn't decrease further if we make the proof lengths to be even shorter.

id: 1205.2781
title: Time-of-arrival probabilities for general particle detectors
authors: Charis Anastopoulos, Ntina Savvidou
comments: 27 pages, latex. Changed title and added a conclusions section. Version to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2781
abstract: We develop a general framework for the construction of probabilities for the time of arrival in quantum systems. The time of arrival is identified with the time instant when a transition in the detector's degrees of freedom takes place. Thus, its definition is embedded within the larger issue of defining probabilities with respect to time for general quantum transitions. The key point in our analysis is that we manage to reduce the problem of defining a quantum time observable to a mathematical model where time is associated to a transition from a subspace of the Hilbert space of the total system to its complementary subspace. This property makes it possible to derive a general expression for the probability for the time of transition, valid for any quantum system, with the only requirement that the time of transition is correlated with a definite macroscopic record. The framework developed here allows for the consideration of any experimental configuration for the measurement of the time of arrival and it also applies to relativistic systems with interactions described by quantum field theory. We use the method in order to describe time-of-arrival measurements in high-energy particle reactions and for a rigorous derivation of the time-integrated probabilities in particle oscillations.

id: 1205.2787
title: Harmonic Oscillator in a 1D or 2D Cavity with General Perfectly Reflecting Walls
authors: M. H. Al-Hashimi
comments: 23 pages 18 figures
journal: Molecular Physics, 111 (2013) 225-241
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2787
abstract: We investigate the simple harmonic oscillator in a 1-d box, and the 2-d isotropic harmonic oscillator problem in a circular cavity with perfectly reflecting boundary conditions. The energy spectrum has been calculated as a function of the self-adjoint extension parameter. For sufficiently negative values of the self-adjoint extension parameter, there are bound states localized at the wall of the box or the cavity that resonate with the standard bound states of the simple harmonic oscillator or the isotropic oscillator. A free particle in a circular cavity has been studied for the sake of comparison. This work represents an application of the recent generalization of the Heisenberg uncertainty relation related to the theory of self-adjoint extensions in a finite volume.

id: 1205.2801
title: Photonic quantum simulation of ground state configurations of Heisenberg square and checkerboard lattice spin systems
authors: Xiao-song Ma, Borivoje Dakic, Sebastian Kropatsche, William Naylor, Yang-hao Chan, Zhe-xuan Gong, Lu-ming Duan, Anton Zeilinger, Philip Walther
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2801
abstract: Photonic quantum simulators are promising candidates for providing insight into other small- to medium-sized quantum systems. The available photonic quantum technology is reaching the state where significant advantages arise for the quantum simulation of interesting questions in Heisenberg spin systems. Here we experimentally simulate such spin systems with single photons and linear optics. The effective Heisenberg-type interactions among individual single photons are realized by quantum interference at the tunable direction coupler followed by the measurement process. The effective interactions are characterized by comparing the entanglement dynamics using pairwise concurrence of a four-photon quantum system. We further show that photonic quantum simulations of generalized Heisenberg interactions on a four-site square lattice and a six-site checkerboard lattice are in reach of current technology.

id: 1205.2807
title: Eavesdropping in Semiquantum Key Distribution Protocol
authors: Arpita Maitra, Goutam Paul
comments: 11 pages, 2 Figures
journal: Information Processing Letters, pages 418-422, vol. 113, issue 12, June 30, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2807
abstract: In semiquantum key-distribution (Boyer et al.) Alice has the same capability as in BB84 protocol, but Bob can measure and prepare qubits only in $\{|0\rangle, |1\rangle\}$ basis and reflect any other qubit. We study an eavesdropping strategy on this scheme that listens to the channel in both the directions. With the same level of disturbance induced in the channel, Eve can extract more information using our two-way strategy than what can be obtained by the direct application of one-way eavesdropping in BB84.

id: 1205.2882
title: Entanglement, Particle Identity and the GNS Construction: A Unifying Approach
authors: A. P. Balachandran, T. R. Govindarajan, Amilcar R. de Queiroz, A. F. Reyes-Lega
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2882
abstract: A novel approach to entanglement, based on the Gelfand-Naimark-Segal (GNS) construction, is introduced. It considers states as well as algebras of observables on an equal footing. The conventional approach to the emergence of mixed from pure ones based on taking partial traces is replaced by the more general notion of the restriction of a state to a subalgebra. For bipartite systems of nonidentical particles, this approach reproduces the standard results. But it also very naturally overcomes the limitations of the usual treatment of systems of identical particles. This GNS approach seems very general and can be applied for example to systems obeying para- and braid- statistics including anyons.

id: 1205.2887
title: Consistent quantum mechanics admits no mereotopology
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 10 pages; to appear in Axiomathes
journal: Axiomathes 24: 9-18, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2887
abstract: It is standardly assumed in discussions of quantum theory that physical systems can be regarded as having well-defined Hilbert spaces. It is shown here that a Hilbert space can be consistently partitioned only if its components are assumed not to interact. The assumption that physical systems have well-defined Hilbert spaces is, therefore, physically unwarranted.

id: 1205.2897
title: Quantum dynamics in photonic crystals
authors: Javier Prior, In¨¦s de Vega, Alex W. Chin, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures Updated with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013428 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2897
abstract: Employing a recently developed method that is numerically accurate within a model space simulating the real-time dynamics of few-body systems interacting with macroscopic environmental quantum fields, we analyze the full dynamics of an atomic system coupled to a continuum light-field with a gapped spectral density. This is a situation encountered, for example, in the radiation field in a photonic crystal, whose analysis has been so far been confined to limiting cases due to the lack of suitable numerical techniques. We show that both atomic population and coherence dynamics can drastically deviate from the results predicted when using the rotating wave approximation, particularly in the strong coupling regime. Experimental conditions required to observe these corrections are also discussed.

id: 1205.2898
title: Universal nonclassicality witnesses for harmonic oscillators
authors: T. Kiesel, W. Vogel
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062106 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2898
abstract: It is shown that a nonclassicality witness, whose expectation value can be measured for all quantum states, can be constructed from every nonclassicality filter. This finding leads to a set of universal witnesses, parameterized by only three real numbers, for the detection of nonclassicality of any quantum state of a harmonic oscillator. An explicit operator expression is given for such a universal witness. The application of the witnesses is demonstrated for a nontrivial example, and its experimental measurement is briefly considered.

id: 1205.2902
title: Equivalence classes and canonical forms for two-qutrit entangled states of rank four having positive partial transpose
authors: Lin Chen, Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: 12 pages, 1 table
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 102205 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2902
abstract: Let E' denote the set of non-normalized two-qutrit entangled states of rank four having positive partial transpose (PPT). We show that the set of SLOCC equivalence classes of states in E', equipped with the quotient topology, is homeomorphic to the quotient R/A_5 of the open rectangular box R in the Euclidean space R^4 by an action of the alternating group A_5. We construct an explicit map omega: Omega -> E', where Omega is the open positive orthant in R^4, whose image meets every SLOCC equivalence class E containeed in E'. Although the intersection of the image of omega and E is not necessarily a singleton set, it is always a finite set of cardinality at most 60. By abuse of language, we say that any state in this intersection is a canonical form of states rho in E. In particular, we show that all checkerboard PPT entangled states can be parametrized up to SLOCC equivalence by only two real parameters. We also summarize the known results on two-qutrit extreme PPT states and edge states, and examine which other interesting properties they may have. Thus we find the first examples of extreme PPT states whose rank is different from the rank of its partial transpose.

id: 1205.2921
title: Entanglement witnesses arising from Choi type positive linear maps
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, 45 (2012), 415305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2921
abstract: We construct optimal PPTES witnesses to detect $3\otimes 3$ PPT entangled edge states of type $(6,8)$ constructed recently \cite{kye_osaka}. To do this, we consider positive linear maps which are variants of the Choi type map involving complex numbers, and examine several notions related to optimality for those entanglement witnesses. Through the discussion, we suggest a method to check the optimality of entanglement witnesses without the spanning property.

id: 1205.2942
title: Quantum correlations in different density matrix representations of spin-1/2 open chain
authors: E. B. Fel'dman, A. I. Zenchuk
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A V. 86, 012303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2942
abstract: We consider quantum correlations in a spin-1/2 open chain of $N$ nodes with the XY Hamiltonian using different bases for the density matrix representation and the initial state with a single polarized node. These bases of our choice are following: (i) the basis of eigenvectors of the fermion operators; this basis appears naturally through the Jordan-Wigner transformation (this representation of the density matrix is referred to as the $\beta$-representation), (ii) its Fourier representation ($c$-representation of the density matrix) and (iii) the basis of eigenvectors of the operators $I_{jz}$ (the $z$-projection of the $j$th spin, $j=1,...,N$). Although for the short chains (a few nodes) the qualitative behavior of the entanglement and the discord are very similar (the difference is quantitative), this is not valid for longer chains ($N\gtrsim 10$). In this case, there are qualitative and quantitative distinctions between the entanglement and the discord in all three cases. We underline three most important features: (i) the quantum discord is static in the $\beta$-representation, where the entanglement is identical to zero; (ii) in the $c$-representation, the concurrence may be non-zero only between the nearest neighbors (with a single exception), while the discord is nonzero between any two nodes; (iii) there is so-called "echo" in the evolution of the discord, which is not observed in the evolution of the concurrence. Using different bases, we may choose the preferable behavior of quantum correlations which allows a given quantum system to be more flexible in applications.

id: 1205.2944
title: Measurement of two-mode squeezing with photon number resolving multi-pixel detectors
authors: Dmitry A. Kalashnikov, Si-Hui Tan, Timur Sh. Iskhakov, Maria V. Chekhova, Leonid A. Krivitsky
comments: Accepted for Optics Letters
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 37 Issue 14, pp.2829-2831 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2944
abstract: The measurement of the two-mode squeezed vacuum generated in an optical parametric amplifier (OPA) was performed with photon number resolving Multi-Pixel Photon Counters (MPPCs). Implementation of the MPPCs allows for the observation of noise reduction in a broad dynamic range of the OPA gain, which is inaccessible with standard single photon avalanche photodetectors.

id: 1205.2976
title: Effect of nonnegativity on estimation errors in one-qubit state tomography with finite data
authors: Takanori Sugiyama, Peter S. Turner, Mio Murao
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, One figure (FIG. 1) is added to the previous version, and some typos are corrected
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 085005 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2976
abstract: We analyze the behavior of estimation errors evaluated by two loss functions, the Hilbert-Schmidt distance and infidelity, in one-qubit state tomography with finite data. We show numerically that there can be a large gap between the estimation errors and those predicted by an asymptotic analysis. The origin of this discrepancy is the existence of the boundary in the state space imposed by the requirement that density matrices be nonnegative (positive semidefinite). We derive an explicit form of a function reproducing the behavior of the estimation errors with high accuracy by introducing two approximations: a Gaussian approximation of the multinomial distributions of outcomes, and linearizing the boundary. This function gives us an intuition for the behavior of the expected losses for finite data sets. We show that this function can be used to determine the amount of data necessary for the estimation to be treated reliably with the asymptotic theory. We give an explicit expression for this amount, which exhibits strong sensitivity to the true quantum state as well as the choice of measurement.

id: 1205.3000
title: Scale invariance of entanglement dynamics in Grover's quantum search algorithm
authors: M. Rossi, D. Bru?, C. Macchiavello
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, significantly improved version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022331 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3000
abstract: We calculate the amount of entanglement of the multiqubit quantum states employed in the Grover algorithm, by following its dynamics at each step of the computation. We show that genuine multipartite entanglement is always present. Remarkably, the dynamics of any type of entanglement as well as of genuine multipartite entanglement is independent of the number n of qubits for large n, thus exhibiting a scale invariance property. We compare this result with the entanglement dynamics induced by a fixed-point quantum search algorithm. We also investigate criteria for efficient simulatability in the context of Grover's algorithm.

id: 1205.3034
title: Dynamical invariants for quantum control of four-level systems
authors: Utkan G¨¹ng?rd¨¹, Yidun Wan, Mohammad Ali Fasihi, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 11 pages, 5 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062312 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3034
abstract: We present a Lie-algebraic classification and detailed construction of the dynamical invariants, also known as Lewis-Riesenfeld invariants, of the four-level systems including two-qubit systems which are most relevant and sufficiently general for quantum control and computation. These invariants not only solve the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation of four-level systems exactly but also enable the control, and hence quantum computation based on which, of four-level systems fast and beyond adiabatic regimes.

id: 1205.3048
title: Measures of macroscopicity for quantum spin systems
authors: Florian Fr?wis, Wolfgang D¨¹r
comments: Comments are welcome! v2: Minor improvements of the text
journal: New J. Phys. 14 093039 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3048
abstract: We investigate the notion of "macroscopicity" in the case of large quantum spin systems and provide two main results. First, we motivate the Fisher information as a measure for the macroscopicity of quantum states. Second, we compare the existing literature of this topic. We report on a hierarchy among the measures and we conclude that one should carefully distinguish between "macroscopic quantum states" and "macroscopic superpositions", which is a strict subclass of the former.

id: 1205.3049
title: Quantum Theory of All-Optical Switching in Nonlinear Sagnac Interferometers
authors: Yu-Ping Huang, Prem Kumar
comments: To appear in New J. Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3049
abstract: Recently, our group has demonstrated an ultrafast, low-loss, fiber-loop switch based on a nonlinear Sagnac-interferometer design, using which entangled photons were shown to be routed without any measurable degradation in their entanglement fidelity [Hall {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 106}, 053901 (2011)]. Such a device represents an enabling technology for a rich variety of networked quantum applications. In this paper we develop a comprehensive quantum theory for such switches in general, i.e., those based on nonlinear Sagnac interferometers, where the in-coupling of quantum noise is carefully modeled. Applying to the fiber-loop switch, the theory shows good agreement with the experimental results without using any fitting parameter. This theory can serve as an important guiding tool for configuring switches of this kind for future quantum networking applications.

id: 1205.3057
title: Improved lower bounds on genuine-multipartite-entanglement concurrence
authors: Zhi-Hua Chen, Zhi-Hao Ma, Jing-Ling Chen, Simone Severini
comments: 17 pages, 1 EPS figure; v3 is in one column to improve readability of equations
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062320 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3057
abstract: Genuine-multipartite-entanglement (GME) concurrence is a measure of genuine multipartite entanglement that generalizes the well-known notion of concurrence. We define an observable for GME concurrence. The observable permits us to avoid full state tomography and leads to different analytic lower bounds. By means of explicit examples we show that entanglement criteria based on the bounds have a better performance with respect to the known methods.

id: 1205.3064
title: Nonradiative interaction and entanglement between distant atoms
authors: Ephraim Shahmoon, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 033831 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3064
abstract: We show that nonradiative interactions between atomic dipoles placed in a waveguide can give rise to deterministic entanglement at ranges much larger than their resonant wavelength. The range increases as the dipole-resonance approaches the waveguide's cutoff frequency, caused by the giant density of photon modes near cutoff, a regime where the standard (perturbative) Markov approximation fails. We provide analytical theories for both the Markovian and non-Markovian regimes, supported by numerical simulations, and discuss possible experimental realizations.

id: 1205.3076
title: Guess your neighbour's input: no quantum advantage but an advantage for quantum theory
authors: Antonio Ac¨ªn, Mafalda L. Almeida, Remigiusz Augusiak, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 31 pages; a chapter submitted for the book "Quantum Theory: Informational Foundations and Foils"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3076
abstract: Quantum mechanics dramatically differs from classical physics, allowing for a wide range of genuinely quantum phenomena. The goal of quantum information is to understand information processing from a quantum perspective. In this mindset, it is thus natural to focus on tasks where quantum resources provide an advantage over classical ones, and to overlook tasks where quantum mechanics provides no advantage. But are the latter tasks really useless from a more general perspective? Here we discuss a simple information-theoretic game called 'guess your neighbour's input', for which classical and quantum players perform equally well. We will see that this seemingly innocuous game turns out to be useful in various contexts. From a fundamental point of view, the game provides a sharp separation between quantum mechanics and other more general physical theories, hence bringing a deeper understanding of the foundations of quantum mechanics. The game also finds unexpected applications in quantum foundations and quantum information theory, related to Gleason's theorem, and to bound entanglement and unextendible product bases.

id: 1205.3084
title: Sine gating detector with simple filtering for low-noise infra-red single photon detection at room temperature
authors: Nino Walenta, Tommaso Lunghi, Olivier Guinnard, Raphael Houlmann, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 6 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3084
abstract: We present and analyze a gated single photon avalanche detector using a sine gating scheme with a simple but effective low-pass filtering technique for fast low-noise single photon detection at telecom wavelength. The detector is characterized by 130 ps short gates applied with a frequency of 1.25 GHz, yields only 70 ps timing jitter and noise probabilities as low as 7E-7 per gate at 10% detection efficiency. We show that the detector is suitable for high rate quantum key distribution (QKD) and even at room temperature it could allow for QKD over distances larger than 25 km.

id: 1205.3104
title: Magic state distillation in all prime dimensions using quantum Reed-Muller codes
authors: Earl T. Campbell, Hussain Anwar, Dan E. Browne
comments: Updated from V1 to include results on the remarkable d=5 case
journal: Phys. Rev. X 2, 041021 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3104
abstract: We propose families of protocols for magic state distillation -- important components of fault tolerance schemes --- for systems of odd prime dimension. Our protocols utilize quantum Reed-Muller codes with transversal non-Clifford gates. We find that, in higher dimensions, small and effective codes can be used that have no direct analogue in qubit (two-dimensional) systems. We present several concrete protocols, including schemes for three-dimensional (qutrit) and five-dimensional (ququint) systems. The five-dimensional protocol is, by many measures, the best magic state distillation scheme yet discovered. It excels both in terms of error threshold with respect to depolarising noise (36.3%) and the efficiency measure know as "yield", where, for a large region of parameters, it outperforms its qubit counterpart by many orders of magnitude.

id: 1205.3118
title: Super-activation of quantum non-locality
authors: Carlos Palazuelos
comments: v2: Refs added. Same results, v3: Minor corrections. Close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 190401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3118
abstract: In this paper we show that quantum non-locality can be super-activated. That is, one can obtain violations of Bell inequalities by tensorizing a local state with itself. Moreover, previous results suggest that such Bell violations can be very large.

id: 1205.3119
title: Determining lower bounds on a measure of multipartite entanglement from few local observables
authors: Jun-Yi Wu, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?, Claude Kl?ckl, Marcus Huber
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022319 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3119
abstract: We introduce a method to lower bound an entropy-based measure of genuine multipartite entanglement via nonlinear entanglement witnesses. We show that some of these bounds are tight and explicitly work out their connection to a framework of nonlinear witnesses that were published recently. Furthermore we provide a detailed analysis of these lower bounds in the context of other possible bounds and measures. In exemplary cases we show that only a few local measurements are necessary to determine these lower bounds.

id: 1205.3133
title: Dynamics of multipartite quantum correlations under decoherence
authors: M. Ramzan
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, 4 tables
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2013) 67: 170
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3133
abstract: Quantum discord is an optimal resource for the quantification of classical and non-classical correlations as compared to other related measures. Geometric measure of quantum discord is another measure of quantum correlations. Recently, the geometric quantum discord for multipartite states has been introduced by Jianwei Xu [arxiv:quant/ph.1205.0330]. Motivated from the recent study [Ann. Phys. 327 (2012) 851] for the bipartite systems, I have investigated global quantum discord (QD) and geometric quantum discord (GQD) under the influence of external environments for different multipartite states. Werner-GHZ type three-qubit and six-qubit states are considered in inertial and non-inertial settings. The dynamics of QD and GQD is investigated under amplitude damping, phase damping, depolarizing and flipping channels. It is seen that the quantum discord vanishes for p>0.75 in case of three-qubit GHZ states and for p>0.5 for six qubit GHZ states. This implies that multipartite states are more fragile to decoherence for higher values of N. Surprisingly, a rapid sudden death of discord occurs in case of phase flip channel. However, for bit flip channel, no sudden death happens for the six-qubit states. On the other hand, depolarizing channel heavily influences the QD and GQD as compared to the amplitude damping channel. It means that the depolarizing channel has the most destructive influence on the discords for multipartite states. From the perspective of accelerated observers, it is seen that effect of environment on QD and GQD is much stronger than that of the acceleration of non-inertial frames. The degradation of QD and GQD happens due to Unruh effect. Furthermore, QD exhibits more robustness than GQD when the multipartite systems are exposed to environment.

id: 1205.3139
title: Comment on "Integrability of the Rabi model"
authors: Alexander Moroz
comments: 1 page, 1 figure - a couple of text typos corrected; no change in formulas
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3139
abstract: In his recent letter, Braak suggested that a regular spectrum of the Rabi model was given by the zeros of a transcendental function $G_\pm(x)$ (cf Eqs. (3)-(5) of Ref. [1]) and highlighted the role of the discrete $\mathbb{Z}_2$-symmetry, or parity, in determining $G_\pm(x)$. We show here to the contrary that one can define a transcendental function $F_0(x)$ and obtain the regular spectrum of the Rabi model as the zeros of $F_0(x)$ (see Fig. 1) without ever making use of the underlying $\mathbb{Z}_2$-symmetry of the model.

id: 1205.3195
title: Detecting Classically Undetectable Particles through Quantum Decoherence
authors: C. Jess Riedel
comments: 5 pages. This has now been squeezed to PRL form. Most of the dark matter material has been moved to arXiv:1212.3061. Some of the material about bases and quantum enhanced measurements will only be available in the old version until I get around to writing the third article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3195
abstract: Some hypothetical particles are considered essentially undetectable because they are far too light and slow-moving to transfer appreciable energy or momentum to the normal matter that composes a detector. I propose instead directly detecting such feeble particles, like sub-MeV dark matter or even gravitons, through their uniquely distinguishable decoherent effects on quantum devices like matter interferometers. More generally, decoherence can reveal phenomena that have arbitrarily little classical influence on normal matter, giving new motivation for the pursuit of macroscopic superpositions.

id: 1205.3197
title: The Rise and Fall of Redundancy in Decoherence and Quantum Darwinism
authors: C. Jess Riedel, Wojciech H. Zurek, Michael Zwolak
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures. Typos fixed
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 083010 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3197
abstract: A state selected at random from the Hilbert space of a many-body system is overwhelmingly likely to exhibit highly non-classical correlations. For these typical states, half of the environment must be measured by an observer to determine the state of a given subsystem. The objectivity of classical reality-the fact that multiple observers can agree on the state of a subsystem after measuring just a small fraction of its environment-implies that the correlations found in nature between macroscopic systems and their environments are very exceptional. Building on previous studies of quantum Darwinism showing that highly redundant branching states are produced ubiquitously during pure decoherence, we examine conditions needed for the creation of branching states and study their demise through many-body interactions. We show that even constrained dynamics can suppress redundancy to the values typical of random states on relaxation timescales, and prove that these results hold exactly in the thermodynamic limit.

id: 1205.3229
title: Balanced Homodyne Detection of Optical Quantum States at Audio-Band Frequencies and Below
authors: M. S. Stefszky, C. M. Mow-Lowry, S. S. Y. Chua, D. A. Shaddock, B. C. Buchler, H. Vahlbruch, A. Khalaidovski, R. Schnabel, P. K. Lam, D. E. McClelland
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3229
abstract: The advent of stable, highly squeezed states of light has generated great interest in the gravitational wave community as a means for improving the quantumnoise- limited performance of advanced interferometric detectors. To confidently measure these squeezed states, it is first necessary to measure the shot-noise across the frequency band of interest. Technical noise, such as non-stationary events, beam pointing, and parasitic interference, can corrupt shot-noise measurements at low Fourier frequencies, below tens of kilo-Hertz. In this paper we present a qualitative investigation into all of the relevant noise sources and the methods by which they can be identified and mitigated in order to achieve quantum noise limited balanced homodyne detection. Using these techniques, flat shot-noise down to Fourier frequencies below 0.5 Hz is produced. This enables the direct observation of large magnitudes of squeezing across the entire audio-band, of particular interest for ground-based interferometric gravitational wave detectors. 11.6 dB of shot-noise suppression is directly observed, with more than 10 dB down to 10 Hz.

id: 1205.3240
title: Phonon number measurements using single photon opto-mechanics
authors: Sahar Basiri-Esfahani, Uzma Akram, Gerard J. Milburn
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 085017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3240
abstract: We describe a system composed of two coupled optical cavity modes with a coupling modulated by a bulk mechanical resonator. In addition, one of the cavity modes is irreversibly coupled to a single photon source. Our scheme is an opto-mechanical realisation of the Jaynes-Cummings model where the qubit is a dual rail optical qubit while the bosonic degree of freedom is a matter degree of freedom realised as the bulk mechanical excitation. We show the possibility of engineering phonon number states of the mechanical oscillator in such a system by computing the conditional state of the mechanics after successive photon counting measurements.

id: 1205.3258
title: On Delayed Choice and Contingent Absorber Experiments
authors: R. E. Kastner
comments: 
journal: ISRN Mathematical Physics, vol. 2012, Article ID 617291, 9 pages, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3258
abstract: It is pointed out that a slight variation on the Wheeler Delayed Choice Experiment presents the same challenge to orthodox quantum mechanics as Maudlin-type contingent absorber experiments present to the Transactional Interpretation (TI). Therefore, the latter cannot be used as a basis for refutation of TI.

id: 1205.3265
title: On the security of arbitrated quantum signature schemes
authors: Qin Li, Chengqing Li, Zhonghua Wen, Weizhong Zhao, W. H. Chan
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3265
abstract: Due to potential capability of providing unconditional security, arbitrated quantum signature (AQS) schemes, whose implementation depends on the participation of a trusted third party, received intense attention in the past decade. Recently, some typical AQS schemes were cryptanalyzed and improved. In this paper, we analyze security property of some AQS schemes and show that all the previous AQS schemes, no matter original or improved, are still insecure in the sense that the messages and the corresponding signatures can be exchanged among different receivers, allowing the receivers to deny accepting the signature of an appointed message. Some further improvement methods on the AQS schemes are also discussed.

id: 1205.3269
title: Characterization and Moment Stability Analysis of Quasilinear Quantum Stochastic Systems with Quadratic Coupling to External Fields
authors: Igor G. Vladimirov, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 14 pages, submitted to CDC 2012 on 7 March 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3269
abstract: The paper is concerned with open quantum systems whose Heisenberg dynamics are described by quantum stochastic differential equations driven by external boson fields. The system-field coupling operators are assumed to be quadratic polynomials of the system observables, with the latter satisfying canonical commutation relations. In combination with a cubic system Hamiltonian, this leads to a class of quasilinear quantum stochastic systems which retain algebraic closedness in the evolution of mixed moments of the observables. Although such a system is nonlinear and its quantum state is no longer Gaussian, the dynamics of the moments of any order are amenable to exact analysis, including the computation of their steady-state values. In particular, a generalized criterion is developed for quadratic stability of the quasilinear systems. The results of the paper are applicable to the generation of non-Gaussian quantum states with manageable moments and an optimal design of linear quantum controllers for quasilinear quantum plants.

id: 1205.3280
title: Device-independent bounds for Hardy's experiment
authors: Rafael Rabelo, Law Yun Zhi, Valerio Scarani
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 180401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3280
abstract: In this Letter we compute an analogue of Tsirelson's bound for Hardy's test of nonlocality, that is, the maximum violation of locality constraints allowed by the quantum formalism, irrespective of the dimension of the system. The value is found to be the same as the one achievable already with two-qubit systems, and we show that only a very specific class of states can lead to such maximal value, thus highlighting Hardy's test as a device-independent self-test protocol for such states. By considering realistic constraints in Hardy's test, we also compute device-independent upper bounds on this violation and show that these bounds are saturated by two-qubit systems, thus showing that there is no advantage in using higher-dimensional systems in experimental implementations of such test.

id: 1205.3294
title: Phase properties of operator valued measures in phase space
authors: T. Subeesh, Vivishek Sudhir
comments: 
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 60, 503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3294
abstract: The Wigner Phase Operator (WPO) is identified as an operator valued measure (OVM) and its eigen states are obtained. An operator satisfying the canonical commutation relation with the Wigner phase operator is also constructed and this establishes a Wigner distribution based operator formalism for the Wigner Phase Distribution. The operator satisfying the canonical commutation relation with the Wigner Phase Operator valued measure (WP-OVM) is found to be not the usual number operator. We show a way to overcome the non-positivity problem of the WP-OVM by defining a positive OVM by means of a proper filter function, based on the view that phase measurements are coarse-grained in phase space, leading to the well known Q-distribution. The identification of Q phase operator as a POVM is in good agreement with the earlier observation regarding the relation between operational phase measurement schemes and the Q-distribution. The Q phase POVM can be dilated in the sense of Gelfand-Naimark, to an operational setting of interference at a beam-splitter with another coherent state - this results in a von Neumann projector with well-defined phase.

id: 1205.3315
title: Undecidability in Tensor Network States
authors: Jason Morton, Jacob Biamonte
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4-1
journal: Physical Review A Rapid Communications 86, 030301(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3315
abstract: Recent work has examined how undecidable problems can arise in quantum information science. We augment this by introducing three new undecidable problems stated in terms of tensor networks. These relate to ideas of Penrose about the physicality of a spin-network representing a physical process, closed timelike curves, and Boolean relation theory. Seemingly slight modifications of the constraints on the topology or the tensor families generating the networks leads to problems that transition from decidable, to undecidable to even always satisfiable.

id: 1205.3331
title: Experimental implementation of bit commitment in the noisy-storage model
authors: Nelly Huei Ying Ng, Siddarth Koduru Joshi, Chen Ming Chia, Christian Kurtsiefer, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 21 pages (7 main text +14 appendix), 6+3 figures. New version changed author's name from Huei Ying Nelly Ng to Nelly Huei Ying Ng, for consistency with other publications
journal: Nature Communications 3, Article number: 1326 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3331
abstract: Fundamental primitives such as bit commitment and oblivious transfer serve as building blocks for many other two-party protocols. Hence, the secure implementation of such primitives are important in modern cryptography. In this work, we present a bit commitment protocol which is secure as long as the attacker's quantum memory device is imperfect. The latter assumption is known as the noisy-storage model. We experimentally executed this protocol by performing measurements on polarization-entangled photon pairs. Our work includes a full security analysis, accounting for all experimental error rates and finite size effects. This demonstrates the feasibility of two-party protocols in this model using real-world quantum devices. Finally, we provide a general analysis of our bit commitment protocol for a range of experimental parameters.

id: 1205.3340
title: The entanglement or separability of mixed quantum states as a matter of the choice of observables
authors: Iacopo Pozzana
comments: 45 pages, 2 figures, Bachelor thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3340
abstract: In quantum systems, entanglement corresponds to nonclassical correlation of nonlocal observables. Thus, entanglement (or, to the contrary, separability) of a given quantum state is not uniquely determined by properties of the state, but may depend on the choice of the factorization of the algebra of observables. In the present work, we expose and systematize some recently reported results about the possibility to represent a single quantum state as either entangled or separable. We will distinguish in particular the cases of pure and mixed states. For pure states, it has been shown that observables can always be constructed such that any state has any amount of entanglement possible. For mixed states, the situation is more complex and only partial results are known: while it is always possible to choose a factorization such that a state appears separable, a general criterion to determine whether a state can be represented as entangled is not known. These results will be illustrated by several examples, the phenomenon of quantum teleportation, and the geometry of the states of two qubits.

id: 1205.3341
title: Dissipative Phase Transition in Central Spin Systems
authors: Eric M. Kessler, Geza Giedke, Atac Imamoglu, Susanne F. Yelin, Mikhail D. Lukin, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 23 pages, 11 figures, typos corrected
journal: Physical Review A 86, 012116 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3341
abstract: We investigate dissipative phase transitions in an open central spin system. In our model the central spin interacts coherently with the surrounding many-particle spin environment and is subject to coherent driving and dissipation. We develop analytical tools based on a self-consistent Holstein-Primakoff approximation that enable us to determine the complete phase diagram associated with the steady states of this system. It includes first and second-order phase transitions, as well as regions of bistability, spin squeezing and altered spin pumping dynamics. Prospects of observing these phenomena in systems such as electron spins in quantum dots or NV centers coupled to lattice nuclear spins are briefly discussed.

id: 1205.3356
title: The structural physical approximations and optimal entanglement witnesses
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: Final version will be published in Journal of Mathematical Physics, Some typos are corrected. 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 53 (2012), 102204
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3356
abstract: We introduce the notions of positive and copositive types for entanglement witnesses, depending on the distance to the positive part and copositive part. An entanglement witness $W$ is of positive type if and only if its partial transpose $W^\Gamma$ is of copositive type. We show that if the structural physical approximation of $W$ is separable then $W$ should be of copositive type, and the SPA of $W^\Gamma$ is never separable unless $W$ is of both positive and copositive type. This shows that the SPA conjecture is meaningful only for those of copositive type. We provide examples to show that the SPA conjecture fails even for the case of copositive types.

id: 1205.3358
title: Typical local measurements in generalised probabilistic theories: emergence of quantum bipartite correlations
authors: Matthias Kleinmann, Tobias J. Osborne, Volkher B. Scholz, Albert H. Werner
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure v2: more details in the proof of the main result
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 040403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3358
abstract: What singles out quantum mechanics as the fundamental theory of Nature? Here we study local measurements in generalised probabilistic theories (GPTs) and investigate how observational limitations affect the production of correlations. We find that if only a subset of typical local measurements can be made then all the bipartite correlations produced in a GPT can be simulated to a high degree of accuracy by quantum mechanics. Our result makes use of a generalisation of Dvoretzky's theorem for GPTs. The tripartite correlations can go beyond those exhibited by quantum mechanics, however.

id: 1205.3393
title: The Quantum as an Emergent System
authors: Gerhard Groessing, Siegfried Fussy, Johannes Mesa Pascasio, Herbert Schwabl
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures, based on a talk given at "Emergent Quantum Mechanics (Heinz von Foerster Conference 2011)", this http URL
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 361 (2012) 012008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3393
abstract: Double slit interference is explained with the aid of what we call "21stcentury classical physics". We model a particle as an oscillator ("bouncer") in a thermal context, which is given by some assumed "zero-point" field of the vacuum. In this way, the quantum is understood as an emergent system, i.e., a steady-state system maintained by a constant throughput of (vacuum) energy. To account for the particle's thermal environment, we introduce a "path excitation field", which derives from the thermodynamics of the zero-point vacuum and which represents all possible paths a particle can take via thermal path fluctuations. The intensity distribution on a screen behind a double slit is calculated, as well as the corresponding trajectories and the probability density current. Further, particular features of the relative phase are shown to be responsible for nonlocal effects not only in ordinary quantum theory, but also in our classical approach.

id: 1205.3407
title: Limits on classical communication from quantum entropy power inequalities
authors: Robert Koenig, Graeme Smith
comments: v2: slightly rewritten, fixed typos, updated references, fixed figures. High-level description of proof with emphasis on applications to classical capacity. 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 142-146 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3407
abstract: Almost all modern communication systems rely on electromagnetic fields as a means of information transmission, and finding the capacities of these systems is a problem of significant practical importance. The Additive White Gaussian Noise (AWGN) channel is often a good approximate description of such systems, and its capacity is given by a simple formula. However, when quantum effects are important, estimating the capacity becomes difficult: a lower bound is known, but a similar upper bound is missing. We present strong new upper bounds for the classical capacity of quantum additive noise channels, including quantum analogues of the AWGN channel. Our main technical tool is a quantum entropy power inequality that controls the entropy production as two quantum signals combine at a beam splitter. Its proof involves a new connection between entropy production rates and a quantum Fisher information, and uses a quantum diffusion that smooths arbitrary states towards gaussians.

id: 1205.3409
title: The entropy power inequality for quantum systems
authors: Robert Koenig, Graeme Smith
comments: Mathematical exposition with detailed proofs. 14 pages. v2: updated to match published version
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th., vol. 60, no. 3, p. 1536-1548 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3409
abstract: When two independent analog signals, X and Y are added together giving Z=X+Y, the entropy of Z, H(Z), is not a simple function of the entropies H(X) and H(Y), but rather depends on the details of X and Y's distributions. Nevertheless, the entropy power inequality (EPI), which states that exp [2H(Z)] \geq exp[2H(X)] + exp[2H(Y)], gives a very tight restriction on the entropy of Z. This inequality has found many applications in information theory and statistics. The quantum analogue of adding two random variables is the combination of two independent bosonic modes at a beam splitter. The purpose of this work is to give a detailed outline of the proof of two separate generalizations of the entropy power inequality to the quantum regime. Our proofs are similar in spirit to standard classical proofs of the EPI, but some new quantities and ideas are needed in the quantum setting. Specifically, we find a new quantum de Bruijin identity relating entropy production under diffusion to a divergence-based quantum Fisher information. Furthermore, this Fisher information exhibits certain convexity properties in the context of beam splitters.

id: 1205.3425
title: Three-port beam splitter for slow neutrons using holographic nanoparticle-polymer composite diffraction gratings
authors: J. Klepp, Y. Tomita, C. Pruner, J. Kohlbrecher, M. Fally
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 101, 154104 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3425
abstract: Diffraction of slow neutrons by nanoparticle-polymer composite gratings has been observed. By carefully choosing grating parameters such as grating thickness and spacing, a three-port beam splitter operation for cold neutrons - splitting the incident neutron intensity equally into the plus-minus first and zeroth diffraction orders - was realized. As a possible application, a Zernike three-path interferometer is briefly discussed.

id: 1205.3439
title: Continued Fractions and the Rabi Model
authors: Daniel Braak
comments: published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 175301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3439
abstract: Techniques based on continued fractions to compute numerically the spectrum of the quantum Rabi model are reviewed. They are of two essentially different types. In the first case, the spectral condition is implemented using a representation in the infinite-dimensional Bargmann space of analytic functions. This approach is shown to approximate the correct spectrum of the full model if the continued fraction is truncated at sufficiently high order. In the second case, one considers the limit of a sequence of models defined in finite-dimensional state spaces. Contrary to the first, the second approach is ambiguous and can be justified only through recourse to the analyticity argument from the first method.

id: 1205.3447
title: Macroscopicity of Mechanical Quantum Superposition States
authors: Stefan Nimmrichter, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. v2: Corresponds to the published version, except for a different numbering of the references. The published "Supplemental Material" is included as an appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 160403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3447
abstract: We propose an experimentally accessible, objective measure for the macroscopicity of superposition states in mechanical quantum systems. Based on the observable consequences of a minimal, macrorealist extension of quantum mechanics, it allows one to quantify the degree of macroscopicity achieved in different experiments.

id: 1205.3456
title: Absolute Dynamical Limit to Cooling Weakly-Coupled Quantum Systems
authors: X. Wang, Sai Vinjanampathy, Frederick W. Strauch, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, Revetex4-1, 2 png figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 157207 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3456
abstract: Cooling of a quantum system is limited by the size of the control forces that are available (the "speed" of control). We consider the most general cooling process, albeit restricted to the regime in which the thermodynamics of the system is preserved (weak coupling). Within this regime, we further focus on the most useful control regime, in which a large cooling factor, and good ground-state cooling can be achieved. We present a control protocol for cooling, and give clear structural arguments, as well as strong numerical evidence, that this protocol is globally optimal. From this we obtain simple expressions for the limit to cooling that is imposed by the speed of control.

id: 1205.3465
title: Qubit-assisted thermometry of a quantum harmonic oscillator
authors: Matteo Brunelli, Stefano Olivares, Mauro Paternostro, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012125 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3465
abstract: We use the theory of quantum estimation in two different qubit-boson coupling models to demonstrate that the temperature of a quantum harmonic oscillator can be estimated with high precision by quantum-limited measurements on the qubit. The two models that we address embody situations of current physical interest due to their connection with ongoing experimental efforts on the control of mesoscopic dynamics. We show that population measurements performed over the qubit probe are near optimal for a broad range of temperatures of the harmonic oscillator

id: 1205.3472
title: Dynamical Casimir Effect in cavity with N-level detector or N-1 two-level atoms
authors: A. V. Dodonov, V. V. Dodonov
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 015801 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3472
abstract: We study the photon generation from vacuum via the Dynamical Casimir Effect in a cavity containing a N-level detector in equally-spaced resonant ladder configuration or N-1 identical resonant two-level atoms. If the modulation frequency equals exactly twice the unperturbed cavity frequency, the photon growth goes on steadily for odd N, while for even N at most N-2 photons can be generated. This finding is corroborated by numerical calculations. In the limit $N\to\infty$ we obtain the harmonic oscillator model of the detector, which admits analytical results.

id: 1205.3517
title: On the spectral dependence of separable and classical correlations in small quantum systems
authors: Gary McConnell, David Jennings
comments: 25 pages, 9 figures, minor changes and references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3517
abstract: We study the correlation structure of separable and classical states in 2x2- and 2x3-dimensional quantum systems with fixed spectra. Even for such simple systems the maximal correlation - as measured by mutual information - over the set of unitarily accessible separable states is highly non-trivial to compute; however for the 2x2 case a particular class of spectra admits full analysis and allows us to contrast classical states with more general separable states. We analyse a particular entropic partial order on the set of spectra and prove for the qubit-qutrit case that this partial order alone picks out a unique classical maximum state for mutual information. Moreover the 2x3 case is the largest system with such a property.

id: 1205.3556
title: Quantum key distribution based on a quantum retrodiction protocol
authors: Han-Duo Shi, Yi-Nan Wang, Li Jing, Ru-Quan Wang, Liang-Zhu Mu, Heng Fan
comments: This paper is withdrawn by the authors and it will be incorporated into a new paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3556
abstract: This paper is withdrawn. We study the quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol based on a quantum retrodiction protocol, namely the so-called mean king problem. The security is analyzed by considering the eavesdropping on both the preparation of the entangled pair and the transmission of the quantum state. This QKD protocol can generate efficiently a bit of raw key in every single run. We find that, for qubit system, it is more secure than the QKD Bennett-Brassard 1984 protocol and the six-state protocol. This QKD protocol works also for higher dimensional system.

id: 1205.3566
title: Risk-sensitive Dissipativity of Linear Quantum Stochastic Systems under Lur'e Type Perturbations of Hamiltonians
authors: Igor G. Vladimirov, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 14 pages, submitted to AUCC 2012 on 7 May 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3566
abstract: This paper is concerned with a stochastic dissipativity theory using quadratic-exponential storage functions for open quantum systems with canonically commuting dynamic variables governed by quantum stochastic differential equations. The system is linearly coupled to external boson fields and has a quadratic Hamiltonian which is perturbed by nonquadratic functions of linear combinations of system variables. Such perturbations are similar to those in the classical Lur'e systems and make the quantum dynamics nonlinear. We study their effect on the quantum expectation of the exponential of a positive definite quadratic form of the system variables. This allows conditions to be established for the risk-sensitive stochastic storage function of the quantum system to remain bounded, thus securing boundedness for the moments of system variables of arbitrary order. These results employ a noncommutative analogue of the Doleans-Dade exponential and a multivariate partial differential version of the Gronwall-Bellman lemma.

id: 1205.3595
title: Cooling distant atoms into entangled states via coupled cavities
authors: Li Tuo Shen, Xin Yu Chen, Zhen Biao Yang, Huai Zhi Wu, Shi Biao Zheng
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 13, No. 3 and 4 (2013) 0281-0289
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3595
abstract: We propose a scheme for generating steady entanglement between two distant atomic qubits in the coupled-cavity system via laser cooling. With suitable choice of the laser frequencies, the target entangled state is the only ground state that is not excited by the lasers due to large detunings. The laser excitations of other ground states, together with dissipative processes, drive the system to the target state which is the unique steady state of the system. Numerical simulation shows that the maximally entangled state with high fidelity can be produced with presently available cooperativity.

id: 1205.3682
title: Comment on some results of Erdahl and the convex structure of reduced density matrices
authors: Jianxin Chen, Zhengfeng Ji, Mary Beth Ruskai, Bei Zeng, Duan-Lu Zhou
comments: 19 pages, 0 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3682
abstract: In J. Math. Phys. 13, 1608-1621 (1972), Erdahl considered the convex structure of the set of $N$-representable 2-body reduced density matrices in the case of fermions. Some of these results have a straightforward extension to the $m$-body setting and to the more general quantum marginal problem. We describe these extensions, but can not resolve a problem in the proof of Erdahl's claim that every extreme point is exposed in finite dimensions. Nevertheless, we can show that when $2m \geq N$ every extreme point of the set of $N$-representable $m$-body reduced density matrices has a unique pre-image in both the symmetric and anti-symmetric setting. Moreover, this extends to the quantum marginal setting for a pair of complementary $m$-body and $(N-m)$-body reduced density matrices.

id: 1205.3696
title: Hybrid Quantum Repeater Protocol With Fast Local Processing
authors: J. Borregaard, J. B. Brask, A. S. S?rensen
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012330 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3696
abstract: We propose a hybrid quantum repeater protocol combining the advantages of continuous and discrete variables. The repeater is based on the previous work of Brask et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 160501 (2010)] but we present two ways of improving this protocol. In the previous protocol entangled single-photon states are produced and grown into superpositions of coherent states, known as two-mode cat states. The entanglement is then distributed using homodyne detection. To improve the protocol, we replace the time-consuming non-local growth of cat states with local growth of single-mode cat states, eliminating the need for classical communication during growth. Entanglement is generated in subsequent connection processes. Furthermore the growth procedure is optimized. We review the main elements of the original protocol and present the two modifications. Finally the two protocols are compared and the modified protocol is shown to perform significantly better than the original protocol.

id: 1205.3706
title: Theory Including Future Not Excluded -- Formulation of Complex Action Theory II
authors: Keiichi Nagao, Holger Bech Nielsen
comments: 27 pages, 2 figures, typos corrected, presentation improved, the final version to appear in Prog.Theor.Exp.Phys
journal: Prog. Theor. Exp. Phys. (2013) 023B04
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3706
abstract: We study a complex action theory (CAT) whose path runs over not only past but also future. We show that if we regard a matrix element defined in terms of the future state at time $T_B$ and the past state at time $T_A$ as an expectation value in the CAT, then we are allowed to have the Heisenberg equation, the Ehrenfest's theorem and the conserved probability current density. In addition we show that the expectation value at the present time $t$ of a future-included theory for large $T_B-t$ and large $t- T_A$ corresponds to that of a future-not-included theory with a proper inner product for large $t- T_A$. Hence the CAT with future explicitly present in the formalism and influencing in principle the past is not excluded phenomenologically, because the effects are argued to be very small in the present era. Furthermore we explicitly derive the Hamiltonian for the future state via path integral, and confirm that it is given by the hermitian conjugate of the Hamiltonian for the past state.

id: 1205.3707
title: Precedence and freedom in quantum physics
authors: Lee Smolin
comments: 12 pages, latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3707
abstract: A new interpretation of quantum mechanics is proposed according to which precedence, freedom and novelty play central roles. This is based on a modification of the postulates for quantum theory given by Masanes and Muller. We argue that quantum mechanics is uniquely characterized as the probabilistic theory in which individual systems have maximal freedom in their responses to experiment, given reasonable axioms for the behavior of probabilities in a physical theory. Thus, to the extent that quantum systems are free, in the sense of Conway and Kochen, there is a sense in which they are maximally free. We also propose that laws of quantum evolution arise from a principle of precedence, according to which the outcome of a measurement on a quantum system is selected randomly from the ensemble of outcomes of previous instances of the same measurement on the same quantum system. This implies that dynamical laws for quantum systems can evolve as the universe evolves, because new precedents are generated by the formation of new entangled states.

id: 1205.3736
title: Towards the Impossibility of Non-Signalling Privacy Amplification from Time-Like Ordering Constraints
authors: Rotem Arnon-Friedman, Esther H?nggi, Amnon Ta-Shma
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3736
abstract: In the past few years there was a growing interest in proving the security of cryptographic protocols, such as key distribution protocols, from the sole assumption that the systems of Alice and Bob cannot signal to each other. This can be achieved by making sure that Alice and Bob perform their measurements in a space-like separated way (and therefore signalling is impossible according to the non-signalling postulate of relativity theory) or even by shielding their apparatus. Unfortunately, it was proven in [E. Haenggi, R. Renner, and S. Wolf. The impossibility of non-signaling privacy amplification] that, no matter what hash function we use, privacy amplification is impossible if we only impose non-signalling conditions between Alice and Bob and not within their systems. In this letter we reduce the gap between the assumptions of Haenggi et al. and the physical relevant assumptions, from an experimental point of view, which say that the systems can only signal forward in time within the systems of Alice and Bob. We consider a set of assumptions which is very close to the conditions above and prove that the impossibility result of Haenggi et al. still holds.

id: 1205.3740
title: Note on the Existence of Hydrogen Atoms in Higher Dimensional Euclidean Spaces
authors: Francisco Caruso, Jordan Martins, Vitor Oguri
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 377, 694, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3740
abstract: The question of whether hydrogen atoms can exist or not in spaces with a number of dimensions greater than 3 is revisited, considering higher dimensional Euclidean spaces. Previous results which lead to different answers to this question are briefly reviewed. The scenario where not only the kinematical term of Schr\"odinger equation is generalized to a D-dimensional space but also the electric charge conservation law (expressed here by the Poisson law) should actually remains valid is assumed. In this case, the potential energy in the Schr\"odinger equation goes like 1/r^{D-2}. The lowest quantum mechanical bound states and the corresponding wave functions are determined by applying the Numerov numerical method to solve Schr\"odinger's eigenvalue equation. States for different angular momentum quantum number (l = 0; 1) and dimensionality (5 \leq D \leq 10) are considered. One is lead to the result that hydrogen atoms in higher dimensions could actually exist. For the same range of the dimensionality D, the energy eigenvalues and wave functions are determined for l = 1. The most probable distance between the electron and the nucleus are then computed as a function of D showing the possibility of tiny bound states.

id: 1205.3742
title: Entanglement in many-body quantum systems
authors: J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: Chapter for the Proceedings of the les Houches school on "many-Body Physics with ultracold atoms", 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3742
abstract: Short review on entanglement, as seen from a quantum information perspective, and some simple applications to many-body quantum systems. Special emphasis in area laws, cold atoms, and efficient descriptions using tensor network states.

id: 1205.3745
title: Quantum network coding for quantum repeaters
authors: Takahiko Satoh, Francois Le Gall, Hiroshi Imai
comments: 9 pages, 11figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3745
abstract: This paper considers quantum network coding, which is a recent technique that enables quantum information to be sent on complex networks at higher rates than by using straightforward routing strategies. Kobayashi et al. have recently showed the potential of this technique by demonstrating how any classical network coding protocol gives rise to a quantum network coding protocol. They nevertheless primarily focused on an abstract model, in which quantum resource such as quantum registers can be freely introduced at each node. In this work, we present a protocol for quantum network coding under weaker (and more practical) assumptions: our new protocol works even for quantum networks where adjacent nodes initially share one EPR-pair but cannot add any quantum registers or send any quantum information. A typically example of networks satisfying this assumption is {\emph{quantum repeater networks}}, which are promising candidates for the implementation of large scale quantum networks. Our results thus show, for the first time, that quantum network coding techniques can increase the transmission rate in such quantum networks as well.

id: 1205.3755
title: Hunting for the Quantum Cheshire Cat
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: v2: 16 pages, revised the criterion to identify the Cheshire cat
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3755
abstract: We analyze the proposal of Aharonov, Popescu, Rohrlich and Skrzypczyk [New. J. Phys. 15, 113015] of disembodying physical properties from particles. We argue that a different criterion, based on the cross-average $\langle \mathrm{`}cat\ somewhere \mbox{'}\times \mathrm{`}grin\ somewhere\ else\mbox{'}\rangle$ should be used to detect the disembodiment, rather than the local averages $\langle \mathrm{`}cat\ somewhere \mbox{'}\rangle$ and $\langle\mathrm{`}grin\ somewhere\ else\mbox{'}\rangle$. Here, the exact probability distribution and its characteristic function are derived for arbitrary coupling strength, preparation and post-selection. This allows to successfully hunt down the quantum Cheshire cat, showing that it is a consequence of interference, that it is present also for intermediate-strength measurements, and that it is a rather common occurrence in post-selected measurements.

id: 1205.3782
title: Universal computation by multi-particle quantum walk
authors: Andrew M. Childs, David Gosset, Zak Webb
comments: 
journal: Science 339, 791-794 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3782
abstract: A quantum walk is a time-homogeneous quantum-mechanical process on a graph defined by analogy to classical random walk. The quantum walker is a particle that moves from a given vertex to adjacent vertices in quantum superposition. Here we consider a generalization of quantum walk to systems with more than one walker. A continuous-time multi-particle quantum walk is generated by a time-independent Hamiltonian with a term corresponding to a single-particle quantum walk for each particle, along with an interaction term. Multi-particle quantum walk includes a broad class of interacting many-body systems such as the Bose-Hubbard model and systems of fermions or distinguishable particles with nearest-neighbor interactions. We show that multi-particle quantum walk is capable of universal quantum computation. Since it is also possible to efficiently simulate a multi-particle quantum walk of the type we consider using a universal quantum computer, this model exactly captures the power of quantum computation. In principle our construction could be used as an architecture for building a scalable quantum computer with no need for time-dependent control.

id: 1205.3820
title: Problems of Security Proofs and Fundamental Limit on Key Generation Rate in Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3820
abstract: It is pointed out that treatments of the error correcting code in current quantum key distribution protocols of the BB84 type are not correct under joint attack, and the general interpretation of the trace distance security criterion is also incorrect. With correct interpretation of the criterion as well as a correct treatment of the error correcting code and privacy amplification code, it is shown that even for an ideal system under just collective attack, the maximum tolerable quantum bit error rate is about 1.5% and a net key cannot actually be generated with practical error correcting codes even at such low rates, contrary to claims in the literature.

id: 1205.3833
title: Post-Classical Probability Theory
authors: Howard Barnum, Alexander Wilce
comments: A chapter for the book "Quantum Theory: Informational Foundations and Foils", G. Chiribella and R.W. Spekkens, editors, forthcoming from Springer v.2: author address corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3833
abstract: This paper offers a brief introduction to the framework of "general probabilistic theories", otherwise known as the "convex-operational" approach the foundations of quantum mechanics. Broadly speaking, the goal of research in this vein is to locate quantum mechanics within a very much more general, but conceptually very straightforward, generalization of classical probability theory. The hope is that, by viewing quantum mechanics "from the outside", we may be able better to understand it. We illustrate several respects in which this has proved to be the case, reviewing work on cloning and broadcasting, teleportation and entanglement swapping, key distribution, and ensemble steering in this general framework. We also discuss a recent derivation of the Jordan-algebraic structure of finite-dimensional quantum theory from operationally reasonable postulates.

id: 1205.3859
title: Engineering of oscillatory quantum states by parametric excitation
authors: T. V. Gevorgyan, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1201.3877
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3859
abstract: We consider preparation of nonclassical oscillatory states in a degenerate parametric oscillator combined with phase modulation. In this scheme intracavity oscillatory mode is excited by train of Gaussian laser pulses through degenerate down-conversion process and phase modulation element inserted in a cavity leads to anharmonicity of oscillatory mode. We demonstrate production of nonclassical oscillatory states with two-fold symmetry in phase-space including the superposition of Fock states and quantum localized states on the level of few excitation numbers and in over-transient dissipative regime.

id: 1205.3877
title: Null Values and Quantum State Discrimination
authors: Oded Zilberberg, Alessandro Romito, David J. Starling, Gregory A. Howland, Curtis J. Broadbent, John C. Howell, Yuval Gefen
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, 5 appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 170405 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3877
abstract: We present a measurement protocol for discriminating between two different quantum states of a qubit with high fidelity. The protocol, called null value, is comprised of a projective measurement performed on the system with a small probability (also known as partial-collapse), followed by a tuned postselection. We report on an optical experimental implementation of the scheme. We show that our protocol leads to an amplified signal-to-noise ratio (as compared with a straightforward strong measurement) when discerning between the two quantum states.

id: 1205.3879
title: Pulsed "three-photon" light
authors: T. V. Gevorgyan, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3879
abstract: Generating multi-photon entangled states is a primary task for applications of quantum information processing. We investigate production of photon-triplet in a regime of light amplification in second-order nonlinear media under action of a pulsed laser beam. For this goal the process of cascaded three-photon splitting in an optical cavity driven by a sequence of laser pulses with Gaussian time-dependent envelopes is investigated. Considering production of photon-triplet for short-time regime and in the cascaded three-wave collinear configuration Generating multi-photon entangled states is a primary task for applications of quantum information processing. We investigate production of photon-triplet in a regime of light amplification in second-order nonlinear media under action of a pulsed laser beam. For this goal the process of cascaded three-photon splitting in an optical cavity driven by a sequence of laser pulses with Gaussian time-dependent envelopes is investigated. Considering production of photon-triplet for short-time regime and in the cascaded three-wave collinear configuration we shortly analyze preparation of polarization-non-product states looking further applications of these results in the cascaded optical parametric oscillator. It is also demonststed the nonclassical characteritics of the photon-triplet in phase-space on the base of the Wigner function. Calculating the normalized third-order correlation functions below-and at the generation threshold of cascaded optical parametric oscillator, we demonstrate that in the pulsed regime, depending on the duration of pulses and the time-interval separations between them, the degree of three-photon-number correlation essentially exceed the analogous one for the case of continuous pumping.

id: 1205.3892
title: Reconsideration of the uncertainty relations and quantum measurements
authors: Spiridon Dumitru
comments: 47 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0504058
journal: Progress in Physics, 2008, v. 2, 50--68
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3892
abstract: Discussions on uncertainty relations (UR) and quantum measurements (QMS) persisted until nowadays in publications about quantum mechanics (QM). They originate mainly from the conventional interpretation of UR (CIUR). In the most of the QM literarure, it is underestimated the fact that, over the years, a lot of deficiencies regarding CIUR were signaled. As a rule the alluded deficiencies were remarked disparately and discussed as punctual and non-essential questions. Here we approach an investigation of the mentioned deficiencies collected in a conclusive ensemble. Subsequently we expose a reconsideration of the major problems referring to UR and QMS. We reveal that all the basic presumption of CIUR are troubled by insurmountable deficiencies which require the indubitable failure of CIUR and its necessary abandonment. Therefore the UR must be deprived of their statute of crucial pieces for physics. So, the aboriginal versions of UR appear as being in postures of either (i) thought-experimental fictions or (ii) simple QM formulae and, any other versions of them, have no connection with the QMS. Then the QMS must be viewed as an additional subject comparatively with the usual questions of QM. For a theoretical description of QMS we propose an information-transmission model, in which the quantum observables are considered as random variables. Our approach directs to natural solutions and simplifications for many problems regarding UR and QMS.

id: 1205.3909
title: Quantum teleportation using active feed-forward between two Canary Islands
authors: Xiao-song Ma, Thomas Herbst, Thomas Scheidl, Daqing Wang, Sebastian Kropatschek, William Naylor, Alexandra Mech, Bernhard Wittmann, Johannes Kofler, Elena Anisimova, Vadim Makarov, Thomas Jennewein, Rupert Ursin, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: Nature 489, 269 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3909
abstract: Quantum teleportation [1] is a quintessential prerequisite of many quantum information processing protocols [2-4]. By using quantum teleportation, one can circumvent the no-cloning theorem [5] and faithfully transfer unknown quantum states to a party whose location is even unknown over arbitrary distances. Ever since the first experimental demonstrations of quantum teleportation of independent qubits [6] and of squeezed states [7], researchers have progressively extended the communication distance in teleportation, usually without active feed-forward of the classical Bell-state measurement result which is an essential ingredient in future applications such as communication between quantum computers. Here we report the first long-distance quantum teleportation experiment with active feed-forward in real time. The experiment employed two optical links, quantum and classical, over 143 km free space between the two Canary Islands of La Palma and Tenerife. To achieve this, the experiment had to employ novel techniques such as a frequency-uncorrelated polarization-entangled photon pair source, ultra-low-noise single-photon detectors, and entanglement-assisted clock synchronization. The average teleported state fidelity was well beyond the classical limit of 2/3. Furthermore, we confirmed the quality of the quantum teleportation procedure (without feed-forward) by complete quantum process tomography. Our experiment confirms the maturity and applicability of the involved technologies in real-world scenarios, and is a milestone towards future satellite-based quantum teleportation.

id: 1205.3925
title: Wigner function for a particle in an infinite lattice
authors: Margarida Hinarejos, A. P¨¦rez, Mari-Carmen Ba?uls
comments: 19 pages (single column), 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 103009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3925
abstract: We study the Wigner function for a quantum system with a discrete, infinite dimensional Hilbert space, such as a spinless particle moving on a one dimensional infinite lattice. We discuss the peculiarities of this scenario and of the associated phase space construction, propose a meaningful definition of the Wigner function in this case, and characterize the set of pure states for which it is non-negative. We propose a measure of non-classicality for states in this system which is consistent with the continuum limit. The prescriptions introduced here are illustrated by applying them to localized and Gaussian states, and to their superpositions.

id: 1205.3928
title: A quantum algorithm for the quantum Schur-Weyl transform
authors: Sonya Berg
comments: 68 pages. PhD thesis, University of California, March 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3928
abstract: We construct an efficient quantum algorithm to compute the quantum Schur-Weyl transform for any value of the quantum parameter $q \in [0,\infty]$. Our algorithm is a $q$-deformation of the Bacon-Chuang-Harrow algorithm, in the sense that it has the same structure and is identically equal when $q=1$. When $q=0$, our algorithm is the unitary realization of the Robinson-Schensted-Knuth (or RSK) algorithm, while when $q=\infty$ it is the dual RSK algorithm together with phase signs. Thus, we interpret a well-motivated quantum algorithm as a generalization of a well-known classical algorithm.

id: 1205.3970
title: Bound on remote preparation of entanglement from isotropic states
authors: Soojoon Lee
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052311 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3970
abstract: Using the negativity as an entanglement measure, we investigate the possible amount of remotely prepared entanglement. For two identical isotropic states on two-qudit systems 12 and 34, we calculate the average amount of entanglement remotely distributed on the system 13 by joint measurement on the system 24, and show that the remote preparation of entanglement by the generalized Bell-measurement is optimal among rank-one measurements if the isotropic states have a certain fidelity with a maximally entangled state in higher dimensional quantum systems, or if the fidelity of the isotropic states is greater than a certain value depending on the dimension. In addition, we construct a measurement better than the generalized Bell-measurement with respect to the remote preparation of entanglement when the isotropic states have small fidelity.

id: 1205.3972
title: Exact propagators on the lattice with applications to diffractive effects
authors: Emerson Sadurn¨ª
comments: Final version with two appendices. Published in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 465302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3972
abstract: The propagator of the discrete Schr\"odinger equation is computed and its properties are revealed through a Feynman path summation in discrete space. Initial data problems such as diffraction in discrete space and continuous time are studied analytically by the application of the new propagator. In the second part of this paper, the analogy between time propagation and 2D scattering by 1D obstacles is explored. New results are given in the context of diffraction by edges within a periodic medium. A connection with tight-binding arrays and photonic crystals is indicated.

id: 1205.4010
title: Bell inequalities under non-ideal conditions
authors: Jo?o N. C. Especial
comments: To be published in Ann. Fond. Louis de Broglie Vol. 37 (2012)
journal: Ann. Fond. Louis de Broglie Vol. 37, 91-125 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4010
abstract: Bell inequalities applicable to non-ideal EPRB experiments are critical to the interpretation of experimental Bell tests. In this article it is shown that previous treatments of this subject are incorrect due to an implicit assumption and new inequalities are derived under general conditions. Published experimental evidence is reinterpreted under these results and found to be entirely compatible with local-realism, both, when experiments involve inefficient detection, if fair-sampling detection is assumed, as well as when experiments have nearly ideal detection and measurement crosstalk is taken into account.

id: 1205.4019
title: The two dimensional Cerenkov radiation
authors: Miroslav Pardy
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4019
abstract: We derive the power spectrum of photons generated by charged particle moving in parallel direction to the graphene-like structure with index of refraction n. While the graphene sheet is conductive, some graphene-like structures, for instance graphene with implanted ions, or, also 2D-glasses, are dielectric media, and it means that it enables the experimental realization of the Cerenkov radiation. We calculate it from the viewpoint of the Schwinger theory of sources.

id: 1205.4043
title: Gradient-based stopping rules for maximum-likelihood quantum-state tomography
authors: Scott Glancy, Emanuel Knill, Mark Girard
comments: 9 pages, single column, 1 figure. Updated to accepted manuscript version. Now includes section headings and other small editorial changes
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 095017 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4043
abstract: When performing maximum-likelihood quantum-state tomography, one must find the quantum state that maximizes the likelihood of the state given observed measurements on identically prepared systems. The optimization is usually performed with iterative algorithms. This paper provides a gradient-based upper bound on the ratio of the true maximum likelihood and the likelihood of the state of the current iteration, regardless of the particular algorithm used. This bound is useful for formulating stopping rules for halting iterations of maximization algorithms. We discuss such stopping rules in the context of determining confidence regions from log-likelihood differences when the differences are approximately chi-squared distributed.

id: 1205.4093
title: Decoherence in an infinite range Heisenberg model
authors: A. Dey, M. Q. Lone, S. Yarlagadda
comments: New appendix added. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1012.3543
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4093
abstract: We study decoherence in an infinite range Heisenberg model (IRHM) in the two situations where the system is coupled to a bath of either local optical phonons or global optical phonons. Using a non-perturbative treatment, we derive an effective Hamiltonian that is valid in the regime of strong spin-phonon coupling under non-adiabatic conditions. It is shown that the effective Hamiltonian commutes with the IRHM and thus has the same eigenstates as the IRHM. By analyzing the dynamics of the system using a quantum master equation approach, we show that the quantum states of the IRHM system do not decohere under Markovian dynamics when the spins interact with local phonons. For interactions with global phonons, the off-diagonal matrix elements of the system's reduced density matrix, obtained for non-Markovian dynamics, do not indicate decoherence only when states with the same $S^z_T$ (i.e., eigenvalue for the z-component of the total spin) are considered.

id: 1205.4098
title: Quantum correlations with vacuum ambiguity in de Sitter space
authors: Jun Feng, Cheng-Yi Sun, Wen-Li Yang, Yao-Zhong Zhang, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4098
abstract: We study the quantum correlations of free scalar field with vacuum ambiguity of de Sitter space. We show the occurrence of degradation of quantum entanglement and quantum discord between field modes for inertial observer in curved space due to the radiation associated with cosmological horizon. In particular, we find that quantum correlations can be used to encode infinite de Sitter invariant vacua, which correspond to infinite set of possible physical worlds. This may provide a superselection rule of physical vacuum via quantum information tasks. We also discuss the simulation of such quantum effects of vacuum ambiguity in ion trap experiments.

id: 1205.4102
title: Relativistic-covariant Bohmian mechanics with proper foliation
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 4 pages, Eqs. (25), (27) and (28) rewritten with a redefined sign factor, comment on related literature added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4102
abstract: In classical relativistic mechanics, a "preferred" proper direction in spacetime for each particle is determined by the direction of its 4-momentum. Analogously, for each quantum particle we find a local direction uniquely determined by the many-particle wave function, which for each particle defines the proper foliation of spacetime. This can be used to formulate a relativistic-covariant version of Bohmian mechanics, with equivariant probability density on proper hypersurfaces.

id: 1205.4107
title: Duality between a deterministic cellular automaton and a bosonic quantum field theory in 1+1 dimensions
authors: Gerard 't Hooft
comments: 18 pages (incl. Title page). No figures
journal: Found Phys (2013) 43:597-614
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4107
abstract: Methods developed in a previous paper are employed to define an exact correspondence between the states of a deterministic cellular automaton in 1+1 dimensions and those of a bosonic quantum field theory. The result may be used to argue that quantum field theories may be much closer related to deterministic automata than what is usually thought possible. Version 2 had a minor typo corrected and notation was made more consistent.

id: 1205.4110
title: Joint system quantum descriptions arising from local quantumness
authors: Tom Cooney, Marius Junge, Miguel Navascues, David Perez-Garcia, Ignacio Villanueva
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4110
abstract: Bipartite correlations generated by non-signalling physical systems that admit a finite-dimensional local quantum description cannot exceed the quantum limits, i.e., they can always be interpreted as distant measurements of a bipartite quantum state. Here we consider the effect of dropping the assumption of finite dimensionality. Remarkably, we find that the same result holds provided that we relax the tensor structure of space-like separated measurements to mere commutativity. We argue why an extension of this result to tensor representations seems unlikely.

id: 1205.4136
title: Schroedinger current for discontinuous states from the first passage time decomposition
authors: Dmitri Sokolovski
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4136
abstract: We revisit the problem of calculating the probability current for discontinuous states, such that may arise in atom trapping or as a result of projective measurements. In the first passage time representation, the problem reduces to evaluation of a localised wave originating from the discontinuity, whose interference with the initial state determines the transfer of probability. Depending on the type of discontinuity, the current behaves as $t^{1/2}$, $t^{3/2}$ or $const(t)$. Our approach generalises earlier work on this subject.

id: 1205.4141
title: Effects of external fields on two-dimensional Klein-Gordon particle under pseudoharmonic oscillator interaction
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Majid Hamzavi
comments: 13 pages, to appear in Chinese Physics B (2012). arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:hep-th/0503208
journal: Chinese Physics B 21 (11) (2012) 110302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4141
abstract: We study the effects of the perpendicular magnetic and Aharonov-Bohm (AB) flux fields on the energy levels of a two-dimensional (2D) Klein-Gordon (KG) particle subjects to equal scalar and vector pseudo-harmonic oscillator (PHO). We calculate the exact energy eigenvalues and normalized wave functions in terms of chemical potential parameter, magnetic field strength, AB flux field and magnetic quantum number by means of the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method. The non-relativistic limit, PHO and harmonic oscillator solutions in the existence and absence of external fields are also obtained.

id: 1205.4154
title: Matrix Product State representation for Slater Determinants and Configuration Interaction States
authors: Pietro Silvi, Davide Rossini, Rosario Fazio, Giuseppe E. Santoro, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures. Published in IJMPB, focus issue on "Classical vs. Quantum Correlations in Composite Systems"
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1245029 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4154
abstract: Slater determinants are product states of filled quantum fermionic orbitals. When they are expressed in a configuration space basis chosen a priori, their entanglement is bound and controlled. This suggests that an exact representation of Slater determinants as finitely-correlated states is possible. In this paper we analyze this issue and provide an exact Matrix Product representation for Slater determinant states. We also argue possible meaningful extensions that embed more complex configuration interaction states into the description.

id: 1205.4182
title: On the equivalence between sharing quantum and classical secrets, and error correction
authors: Anne Marin, Damian Markham
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, updated to journal version (improved discussions, and general proof of security for the RCQ protocol)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042332 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4182
abstract: We present a general scheme for sharing quantum secrets, and an extension to sharing classical secrets, which contain all known quantum secret sharing schemes. In this framework we show the equivalence of existence of both schemes, that is, the existence of a scheme sharing a quantum secret implies the extended classical secret sharing scheme works, and vice versa. As a consequence of this we find new schemes sharing classical secrets for arbitrary access structures. We then clarify the relationship to quantum error correction and observe several restrictions thereby imposed, which for example indicates that for pure state threshold schemes the share size $q$ must scale with the number of players $n$ as $q\geq \sqrt{n}$. These results also provide a new way of searching for quantum error correcting codes.

id: 1205.4198
title: Tensor Networks: a quantum-information perspective on numerical renormalization groups
authors: Pietro Silvi
comments: PhD thesis submitted to the International School for Advanced Studies (SISSA/ISAS) - Trieste. Contains elements of arXiv:0912.2893, arXiv:0912.0466. 180 pages, 80 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4198
abstract: Exact many-body quantum problems are known to be computationally hard due to the exponential scaling of the numerical resources required. Since the advent of the Density Matrix Renormalization Group, it became clear that a successful strategy to work around this obstacle was to develop numerical methods based on the well-known theoretical renormalization group. In recent years, it was realized that quantum states engineered via numerical renormalization allow a variational representation in terms of a tensor network picture. The discovery provided a further boost to the effectiveness of these techniques, not only due to the increased flexibility and manipulability, but also because tensor network states embed a direct interface to the entanglement they carry, so that one can directly address many-body quantum correlations within these variational ansatz states. This lead to the application of several numerical tools, originally developed in the field of quantum-information, to approach condensed matter problems.

id: 1205.4253
title: Quantum Error-Correcting Codes over Mixed Alphabets
authors: Zhuo Wang, Sixia Yu, Heng Fan, C.H. Oh
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4253
abstract: Errors are inevitable during all kinds quantum informational tasks and quantum error-correcting codes (QECCs) are powerful tools to fight various quantum noises. For standard QECCs physical systems have the same number of energy levels. Here we shall propose QECCs over mixed alphabets, i.e., physical systems of different dimensions, and investigate their constructions as well as their quantum Singleton bound. We propose two kinds of constructions: a graphical construction based a graph-theoretical object composite coding clique and a projection-based construction. We illustrate our ideas using two alphabets by finding out some 1-error correcting or detecting codes over mixed alphabets, e.g., optimal $((6,8,3))_{4^52^1}$, $((6,4,3))_{4^42^2}$ and $((5,16,2))_{4^32^2}$ code and suboptimal $((5,9,2))_{3^42^1}$ code. Our methods also shed light to the constructions of standard QECCs, e.g., the construction of the optimal $((6,16,3))_4$ code as well as the optimal $((2n+3,p^{2n+1},2))_{p}$ codes with $p=4k$.

id: 1205.4263
title: Enhanced squeezing of a collective spin via control of its qudit subsystems
authors: Leigh M. Norris, Collin M. Trail, Poul S. Jessen, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: L. M. Norris, C. M. Trail, P. S. Jessen and I.H. Deutsch, Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 173603 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4263
abstract: Unitary control of qudits can improve the collective spin squeezing of an atomic ensemble. Preparing the atoms in a state with large quantum fluctuations in magnetization strengthens the entangling Faraday interaction. The resulting increase in interatomic entanglement can be converted into metrologically useful spin squeezing. Further control can squeeze the internal atomic spin without compromising entanglement, providing an overall multiplicative factor in the collective squeezing. We model the effects of optical pumping and study the tradeoffs between enhanced entanglement and decoherence. For realistic parameters we see improvements of ~10 dB.

id: 1205.4294
title: Singlet state creation and Universal quantum computation in NMR using Genetic Algorithm
authors: V. S. Manu, Anil Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4294
abstract: Experimental implementation of a quantum algorithm requires unitary operator decomposition. Here we treat the unitary operator decomposition as an optimization problem and use Genetic Algorithm, a global optimization method inspired by nature's evolutionary process for operator decomposition. As an application, we apply this to NMR Quantum Information Processing and find a probabilistic way of doing universal quantum computation using global hard pulses. We also demonstrate efficient creation of singlet state (as a special case of Bell state) directly from thermal equilibrium using an optimum sequence of pulses.

id: 1205.4308
title: Quasiperiodicity in time evolution of the Bloch vector under the thermal Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Hiroo Azuma, Masashi Ban
comments: v3: 41 pages, 15 eps figures. Because the manuscript arXiv:1205:4308v2 was too long, it has been divided into two parts. The present paper is the first part of the original one. In this manuscript, the discussions focus on the quasiperiodicity in the thermal Jaynes-Cummings model
journal: Physica D 280-281 (2014) 22-37
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4308
abstract: We study a quasiperiodic structure in the time evolution of the Bloch vector, whose dynamics is governed by the thermal Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM). Putting the two-level atom into a certain pure state and the cavity field into a mixed state in thermal equilibrium at initial time, we let the whole system evolve according to the JCM Hamiltonian. During this time evolution, motion of the Bloch vector seems to be in disorder. Because of the thermal photon distribution, both a norm and a direction of the Bloch vector change hard at random. In this paper, taking a different viewpoint compared with ones that we have been used to, we investigate quasiperiodicity of the Bloch vector's trajectories. Introducing the concept of the quasiperiodic motion, we can explain the confused behaviour of the system as an intermediate state between periodic and chaotic motions. More specifically, we discuss the following two facts: (1) If we adjust the time interval $\Delta t$ properly, figures consisting of plotted dots at the constant time interval acquire scale invariance under replacement of $\Delta t$ by $s\Delta t$, where $s(>1)$ is an arbitrary real but not transcendental number. (2) We can compute values of the time variable $t$, which let $|S_{z}(t)|$ (the absolute value of the $z$-component of the Bloch vector) be very small, with the Diophantine approximation (a rational approximation of an irrational number).

id: 1205.4341
title: Reconfigurable controlled two-qubit operation on a quantum photonic chip
authors: H. W. Li, S. Przeslak, A. O. Niskanen, J. C. F. Matthews, A. Politi, P. Shadbolt, A. Laing, M. Lobino, M. G. Thompson, J. L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 115009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4341
abstract: Integrated quantum photonics is an appealing platform for quantum information processing, quantum communication and quantum metrology. In all these applications it is necessary not only to be able to create and detect Fock states of light but also to program the photonic circuits that implements some desired logical operation. Here we demonstrate a reconfigurable controlled two-qubit operation on a chip using a multiwaveguide interferometer with a tunable phase shifter. We find excellent agreement between theory and experiment, with a 0.98 \pm 0.02 average similarity between measured and ideal operations.

id: 1205.4346
title: Erasing Quantum Distinguishability via Single-Mode Filtering
authors: Monika Patel, Joseph B. Altepeter, Yu-Ping Huang, Neal N. Oza, Prem Kumar
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4346
abstract: Erasing quantum-mechanical distinguishability is of fundamental interest and also of practical importance, particularly in subject areas related to quantum information processing. We demonstrate a method applicable to optical systems in which single-mode filtering is used with only linear optical instruments to achieve quantum indistinguishability. Through "heralded" Hong-Ou-Mandel interference experiments we measure and quantify the improvement of indistinguishability between single photons generated via spontaneous four-wave mixing in optical fibers. The experimental results are in excellent agreement with predictions of a quantum-multimode theory we develop for such systems, without the need for any fitting parameter.

id: 1205.4357
title: Discrete Quantum Walk on a Line with Two Entangled Particles
authors: Joachim Nsofini
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1001.5326, arXiv:quant-ph/0303081, arXiv:1003.4656, arXiv:quant-ph/0411065 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4357
abstract: A review of discrete quantum walk with two particle is given. The use of different states encountered in identical particle, and the idea of entanglement and superposition is explored to explored the interesting dynamics of two particle quantum walk. Boundary conditions can specify certain dynamics and so a survey of periodic boundary condition (circle) is presented. A simulation for a Hadamard walk for different periods of a circle is considered and results are compared for various periods and for a case with absorbing boundaries.

id: 1205.4359
title: Chirped quasi-phase-matching with Gauss sums for production of biphotons
authors: D. A. Antonosyan, A. R. Tamazyan, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4359
abstract: We study the theory of linearly chirped biphoton wave-packets produced in two basic quasi-phase-matching configurations: chirped photonic-like crystals and aperiodically poled crystals. The novelty is that these structures are considered as definite assembles of nonlinear layers that leads to detailed description of spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) processes through the discrete Gauss sums. We demonstrate that biphoton spectra for chirped photonic crystals involving a small number of layers consist from definite well-resolved spectral lines. We also discuss the forming of broadband spectra of signal (idler) waves in SPDC for both configurations as number of layers increases as well as in dependence of chirping parameters .

id: 1205.4370
title: Irreversibility of Entanglement Concentration for Pure State
authors: Wataru Kumagai, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4370
abstract: For a pure state $\psi$ on a composite system $\mathcal{H}_A\otimes\mathcal{H}_B$, both the entanglement cost $E_C(\psi)$ and the distillable entanglement $E_D(\psi)$ coincide with the von Neumann entropy $H(\mathrm{Tr}_{B}\psi)$. Therefore, the entanglement concentration from the multiple state $\psi^{\otimes n}$ of a pure state $\psi$ to the multiple state $\Phi^{\otimes L_n}$ of the EPR state $\Phi$ seems to be able to be reversibly performed with an asymptotically infinitesimal error when the rate ${L_n}/{n}$ goes to $H(\mathrm{Tr}_{B}\psi)$. In this paper, we show that it is impossible to reversibly perform the entanglement concentration for a multiple pure state even in asymptotic situation. In addition, in the case when we recover the multiple state $\psi^{\otimes M_n}$ after the concentration for $\psi^{\otimes n}$, we evaluate the asymptotic behavior of the loss number $n-M_n$ of $\psi$. This evaluation is thought to be closely related to the entanglement compression in distant parties.

id: 1205.4372
title: Chaotic walking and fractal scattering of atoms in a tilted optical lattice
authors: S.V. Prants, V.O. Vitkovsky
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4372
abstract: Chaotic walking of cold atoms in a tilted optical lattice, created by two counter propagating running waves with an additional external field, is demonstrated theoretically and numerically in the semiclassical and Hamiltonian approximations. The effect consists in random-like changing the direction of atomic motion in a rigid lattice under the influence of a constant force due to a specific behavior of the atomic dipole-moment component that changes abruptly in a random-like manner while atoms cross standing-wave nodes. Chaotic walking generates a fractal-like scattering of atoms that manifests itself in a self-similar structure of the scattering function in the atom-field detuning, position and momentum spaces. The probability distribution function of the scattering time is shown to decay in a non-exponential way with a power-law tail.

id: 1205.4403
title: Determining the dimensionality of bipartite orbital-angular-momentum entanglement using multi-sector phase masks
authors: D. Giovannini, F. M. Miatto, J. Romero, S. M. Barnett, J. P. Woerdman, M. J. Padgett
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4403
abstract: The Shannon dimensionality of orbital angular momentum (OAM) entanglement produced in spontaneous parametric down-conversion can be probed by using multi-sector phase analysers. We demonstrate a spatial light modulator-based implementation of these analysers, and use it to measure a Schmidt number of about 50.

id: 1205.4451
title: Nonlocality at detection and conservation of energy. Was Einstein looking for an "epistemic" interpretation, a "superdeterministic" one, or both?
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4451
abstract: In the Solvay conference (1927) Einstein argued against the quantum nonlocal decision at detection on the basis of a simple single-particle experiment, but thereafter he withdrew towards the more complicated 2-particle EPR argument. It has been claimed that Einstein was seeking for an "epistemic interpretation". In the light of a recent experiment I argue that Einstein missed an important point: One cannot have conservation of energy without nonlocality at detection. This experiment refutes also straightforwardly "epistemic" and "ontic" alternatives to quantum theory, and shows that Einstein's "epistemicism" entails "superdeterminism".

id: 1205.4506
title: Entanglement creation with negative index metamaterials
authors: Michael Siomau, Ali A. Kamli, Sergey A. Moiseev, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 3 figures, 34 references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 050303(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4506
abstract: We propose a scheme for creating of a maximally entangled state comprising two field quanta. In our scheme, two weak light fields, which are initially prepared in either coherent or polarization states, interact with a composite medium near an interface between a dielectric and a negative index metamaterial. Such interaction leads to a large Kerr nonlinearity, reduction of the group velocity of the light and significant confinement of the light fields while simultaneously avoiding amplitude losses of the incoming radiation. All these considerations make our scheme efficient.

id: 1205.4511
title: Interaction-induced decoherence in non-Hermitian quantum walks of ultracold Bosons
authors: K. Rapedius, H. J. Korsch
comments: Revised and extended version, 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 025601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4511
abstract: We study the influence of particle interaction on a quantum walk on a bipartite one-dimensional lattice with decay from every second site. The corresponding non-interacting (linear) system has been shown to have a topological transition described by the average displacement before decay. Here we use this topological quantity to distinguish coherent quantum dynamics from incoherent classical dynamics caused by a breaking of the translational symmetry. We furthermore analyze the behavior by means of a rate equation providing a quantitative description of the incoherent nonlinear dynamics.

id: 1205.4517
title: Codes in W\ast-metric Spaces: Theory and Examples
authors: Christopher Bumgardner
comments: 57 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4517
abstract: We introduce a $W^*$-metric space, which is a particular approach to non-commutative metric spaces where a \textit{quantum metric} is defined on a von Neumann algebra. We generalize the notion of a quantum code and quantum error correction to the setting of finite dimensional $W^*$-metric spaces, which includes codes and error correction for classical finite metric spaces. We also introduce a class of $W^*$-metric spaces that come from representations of semi-simple Lie algebras $\mathfrak{g}$ called \textit{$\mathfrak{g}$-metric} spaces, and present an outline for code constructions. In turn, we produce specific code constructions for $\mathfrak{su}(2,\mathbb{C})$-metric spaces that depend upon proving Tverberg's theorem for points on a moment curve constructed from arithmetic sequences. We introduce a \textit{quantum distance distribution}, and we prove an analogue of the MacWilliam's identities for $\mathfrak{su}(2)$-metric spaces.

id: 1205.4519
title: Quantum features derived from the classical model of a bouncer-walker coupled to a zero-point field
authors: Herbert Schwabl, Johannes Mesa Pascasio, Siegfried Fussy, Gerhard Groessing
comments: 14 pages, based on a talk given at "Emergent Quantum Mechanics (Heinz von Foerster Conference 2011)", see this http URL
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 361 (2012) 012021
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4519
abstract: In our bouncer-walker model a quantum is a nonequilibrium steady-state maintained by a permanent throughput of energy. Specifically, we consider a "particle" as a bouncer whose oscillations are phase-locked with those of the energy-momentum reservoir of the zero-point field (ZPF), and we combine this with the random-walk model of the walker, again driven by the ZPF. Starting with this classical toy model of the bouncer-walker we were able to derive fundamental elements of quantum theory. Here this toy model is revisited with special emphasis on the mechanism of emergence. Especially the derivation of the total energy hbar.omega and the coupling to the ZPF are clarified. For this we make use of a sub-quantum equipartition theorem. It can further be shown that the couplings of both bouncer and walker to the ZPF are identical. Then we follow this path in accordance with previous work, expanding the view from the particle in its rest frame to a particle in motion. The basic features of ballistic diffusion are derived, especially the diffusion constant D, thus providing a missing link between the different approaches of our previous works.

id: 1205.4521
title: Classical Simulation of Double Slit Interference via Ballistic Diffusion
authors: Johannes Mesa Pascasio, Siegfried Fussy, Herbert Schwabl, Gerhard Groessing
comments: 4 pages, based on a poster presented at "Emergent Quantum Mechanics (Heinz von Foerster Conference 2011)", see this http URL
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 361 (2012) 012041
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4521
abstract: Based on a proposed classical explanation, the quantum mechanical "decay of the wave packet" is shown to simply result from sub-quantum diffusion with a specific diffusivity varying in time due to a particle's changing thermal environment. The exact quantum mechanical intensity distribution, as well as the corresponding trajectory distribution and the velocity field of a Gaussian wave packet are therewith computed. We utilize no quantum mechanics, but only familiar simulation techniques for diffusion, e.g., finite differences or coupled map lattices (CML).

id: 1205.4535
title: Tuning non-Markovianity by spin-dynamics control
authors: Salvatore Lorenzo, Francesco Plastina, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, PRA version
journal: PhysRevA.87.022317 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4535
abstract: We study the interplay between forgetful and memory-keeping evolution enforced on a two-level system by a multi-spin environment whose elements are coupled to local bosonic baths. Contrarily to the expectation that any non-Markovian effect would be buried by the forgetful mechanism induced by the spin-bath coupling, one can actually induce a full Markovian-to-non-Markovian transition of the two-level system's dynamics, controllable by parameters such as the mismatch between the energy of the two-level system and of the spin environment. For a symmetric coupling, the amount of non-Markovianity surprisingly grows with the number of decoherence channels.

id: 1205.4552
title: Periodically driven quantum open systems: Tutorial
authors: Robert Alicki, David Gelbwaser-Klimovsky, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4552
abstract: We present a short derivation and discussion of the master equation for an open quantum system weakly coupled to a heat bath and then its generalization to the case of with periodic external driving based on the Floquet theory. Further, a single heat bath is replaced by several ones. We present also the definition of heat currents which satisfies the second law of thermodynamics and apply the general results to a simple model of periodically modulated qubit.

id: 1205.4560
title: Self-dual Spectral Singularities and Coherent Perfect Absorbing Lasers without PT-symmetry
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, 1 table, accepted for publication in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 444024 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4560
abstract: A PT-symmetric optically active medium that lases at the threshold gain also acts as a complete perfect absorber at the laser wavelength. This is because spectral singularities of PT-symmetric complex potentials are always accompanied by their time-reversal dual. We investigate the significance of PT-symmetry for the appearance of these self-dual spectral singularities. In particular, using a realistic optical system we show that self-dual spectral singularities can emerge also for non-PT-symmetric configurations. This signifies the existence of non-PT-symmetric CPA-lasers.

id: 1205.4585
title: A probabilistic phase-insensitive optical squeezer in peaceful coexistence with causality
authors: C. N. Gagatsos, E. Karpov, N. J. Cerf
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012324 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4585
abstract: A non trace-preserving map describing a probabilistic but heralded noiseless linear amplifier has recently been proposed and experimentally demonstrated. Here, we exhibit another remarkable feature of this peculiar transformation, namely its ability to serve as a universal single-mode squeezer regardless of the quadrature that is initially squeezed. Hence, it acts as an heralded phase-insensitive optical squeezer, conserving the signal-to-noise ratio just as a phase-sensitive optical amplifier but for all quadratures at the same time, which may offer new perspectives in quantum optical communications. Although this ability to squeeze all quadratures seemingly opens a way to instantaneous signaling by circumventing the quantum no-cloning theorem, we explain the subtle mechanism by which the probability for such a causality violation vanishes, even on an heralded basis.

id: 1205.4595
title: Classical-Information Theoretical View of Physical Measurements and Generalized Uncertainty Relations
authors: Yoshimasa Kurihara
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures This paper has been withdrawn by the author and replaced by new ubmiion with the same title
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4595
abstract: General characterization of physical measurements is discussed within the framework of a classical information theory. Uncertainty relation for simultaneous measurements of two physical observables is defined in this framework for generalized dynamic systems controlled under general kinds of equations of motion. We have treated only a mean-square error of the Gauss(-like) distributions in this report. Lessening of the Kennard-Robertson type uncertainties due to boundary conditions are quantitatively discussed using the information entropy.

id: 1205.4616
title: Derivation of exact master equation with stochastic description: Models in quantum optics
authors: Haifeng Li, Jiushu Shao
comments: 24
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4616
abstract: The methodology of stochastic description for dissipation, a generic scheme to decouple the interaction between two subsystems, is applied to the study of dissipative dynamics in quantum optics. It is shown that the influence of the coupled thermal or vacuum field on the quantum mode can be exactly represented by the induced stochastic fields. The quantum mode thereby satisfies a stochastic differential equation and dissipation effect due to the coupling with the environment is obtained through statistical averaging. Within the framework of stochastic description, it is demonstrated how to derive the master equation for a single optical mode interacting with the bosonic bath. A numerical algorithm for solving the master equation in which the coefficients are determined by a set of integral equations is discussed and a comparison with the known results is displayed. The derivation of the master equation for the spontaneous decay of two-state atoms in the vacuum is also presented.

id: 1205.4636
title: Entanglement and Quantum Nonlocality Demystified
authors: Marian Kupczynski
comments: Corrected typos and omissions, added one reference, eliminated jumps in the reference list and numbering adjusted
journal: 2012 AIP Conf. Proc. 1508 pp 253-264
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4636
abstract: Quantum nonlocality is presented often as the most remarkable and inexplicable phenomenon known to modern science which was confirmed in the experiments proving the violation of Bell Inequalities (BI). It has been known already for a long time that the probabilistic models used to prove BI for spin polarization correlation experiments (SPCE) are incompatible with the experimental protocols of SPCE. In particular these models use a common probability space together with joint probability distributions for various incompatible coincidence experiments and/or conditional independence (Bell's locality). Strangely enough these results are not known or simply neglected. Therefore so called Bell's or quantum nonlocality has nothing to do with the common notion of the non-locality and it should be rather called quantum non-Kolmogorovness or quantum contextuality. We quickly explain the true meaning of various Bell's locality assumptions and show that if local variables describing the measuring instruments are correctly taken into consideration then BI can no longer be proven. In order to demystify even further the entanglement and quantum long range correlations we give an example of a macroscopic entangled "two qubit state". Namely we show that one can prepare two macroscopic systems in such a way that simple realizable local experiments on these systems violate BI. Of course we do not question the usefulness of the long range correlations characterizing the entangled physical systems in the domain of Quantum Information. However one should not forget that the anti-correlations cannot be perfect, that the wave function should not be treated as an attribute of the individual quantum system which can be change instantaneously and that the unperformed experiments have no results.

id: 1205.4651
title: Optimal representation of the bath response function & fast calculation of influence functional coefficients in open quantum systems with BATHFIT 1
authors: Nikesh S. Dattani, David M. Wilkins, Felix A. Pollock
comments: Changes in this version: references added, table 1 added, other tables were polished and notation was changed, significant changes made to section on choosing starting parameters for cases where Pade-like decomposition is unavailable, additions made to influence functionals section including more detailed description of QUAPI section, some typos were corrected too
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4651
abstract: Today's most popular techniques for accurately calculating the dynamics of the reduced density operator in an open quantum system, either require, or gain great computational benefits, from representing the bath response function a(t) in the form a(t)={\Sigma}_k^K p_k e^{O_k t} . For some of these techniques, the number of terms in the series K plays the lead role in the computational cost of the calculation, and is therefore often a limiting factor in simulating open quantum system dynamics. We present an open source MATLAB program called BATHFIT 1, whose input is any spectral distribution functions J(w) or bath response function, and whose output attempts to be the set of parameters {p_k,w_k}_k=1^K such that for a given value of K, the series {\Sigma}_k^k p_k e^{O_k t} is as close as possible to a(t). This should allow the user to represent a(t) as accurately as possible with as few parameters as possible. The program executes non-linear least squares fitting, and for a very wide variety of spectral distribution functions, competent starting parameters are used for these fits. For most forms of J(w), these starting parameters, and the exact a(t) corresponding to the given J(w), are calculated using the recent Pade decomposition technique - therefore this program can also be used to merely implement the Pade decomposition for these spectral distribution functions; and it can also be used just to efficiently and accurately calculate a(t) for any given J(w) . The program also gives the J(w) corresponding to a given a(t), which may allow one to assess the quality (in the w-domain) of a representation of a(t) being used. Finally, the program can calculate the discretized influence functional coefficients for any J(w), and this is computed very efficiently for most forms of J(w) by implementing the recent technique published in [Quantum Physics Letters (2012) 1 (1) pg. 35].

id: 1205.4669
title: Sub-binomial light
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 093601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4669
abstract: The click statistics from on-off detector systems is quite different from the counting statistics of the more traditional detectors. This necessitates introduction of new parameters to characterize the nonclassicality of fields from measurements using on-off detectors. To properly replace the Mandel Q_M parameter, we introduce a parameter Q_B. A negative value represents a sub-binomial statistics. This is possible only for quantum fields, even for super-Poisson light. It eliminates the problems encountered in discerning nonclassicality using Mandel's Q_M for on-off data.

id: 1205.4680
title: Almost perfect state transfer in quantum spin chains
authors: Luc Vinet, Alexei Zhedanov
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4680
abstract: The natural notion of almost perfect state transfer (APST) is examined. It is applied to the modelling of efficient quantum wires with the help of $XX$ spin chains. It is shown that APST occurs in mirror-symmetric systems, when the 1-excitation energies of the chains are linearly independent over rational numbers. This result is obtained as a corollary of the Kronecker theorem in Diophantine approximation. APST happens under much less restrictive conditions than perfect state transfer (PST) and moreover accommodates the unavoidable imperfections. Some examples are discussed.

id: 1205.4689
title: Birth and death processes and quantum spin chains
authors: Alberto F. Gr¨¹nbaum, Luc Vinet, Alexei Zhedanov
comments: 14 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 062101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4689
abstract: This papers underscores the intimate connection between the quantum walks generated by certain spin chain Hamiltonians and classical birth and death processes. It is observed that transition amplitudes between single excitation states of the spin chains have an expression in terms of orthogonal polynomials which is analogous to the Karlin-McGregor representation formula of the transition probability functions for classes of birth and death processes. As an application, we present a characterization of spin systems for which the probability to return to the point of origin at some time is 1 or almost 1.

id: 1205.4707
title: Zitterbewegung of Klein-Gordon particles and its simulation by classical systems
authors: Tomasz M. Rusin, Wlodek Zawadzki
comments: 16 pages and 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4707
abstract: The Klein-Gordon equation is used to calculate the Zitterbewegung (ZB, trembling motion) of spin-zero particles in absence of fields and in the presence of an external magnetic field. Both Hamiltonian and wave formalisms are employed to describe ZB and their results are compared. It is demonstrated that, if one uses wave packets to represent particles, the ZB motion has a decaying behavior. It is also shown that the trembling motion is caused by an interference of two sub-packets composed of positive and negative energy states which propagate with different velocities. In the presence of a magnetic field the quantization of energy spectrum results in many interband frequencies contributing to ZB oscillations and the motion follows a collapse-revival pattern. In the limit of non-relativistic velocities the interband ZB components vanish and the motion is reduced to cyclotron oscillations. The exact dynamics of a charged Klein-Gordon particle in the presence of a magnetic field is described on an operator level. The trembling motion of a KG particle in absence of fields is simulated using a classical model proposed by Morse and Feshbach -- it is shown that a variance of a Gaussian wave packet exhibits ZB oscillations.

id: 1205.4740
title: Observation of quantum interference as a function of Berry's phase in a complex Hadamard optical network
authors: Anthony Laing, Thomas Lawson, Enrique Mart¨ªn L¨®pez, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108 260505 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4740
abstract: Emerging models of quantum computation driven by multi-photon quantum interference, while not universal, may offer an exponential advantage over classical computers for certain problems. Implementing these circuits via geometric phase gates could mitigate requirements for error correction to achieve fault tolerance while retaining their relative physical simplicity. We report an experiment in which a geometric phase is embedded in an optical network with no closed-loops, enabling quantum interference between two photons as a function of the phase.

id: 1205.4800
title: Galois Field Quantum Mechanics
authors: Lay Nam Chang, Zachary Lewis, Djordje Minic, Tatsu Takeuchi
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX. Uses ws-mplb.cls. Revised title, introduction, and bibliography
journal: Modern Physics Letters B 27 (2013) 1350064
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4800
abstract: We construct a discrete quantum mechanics using a vector space over the Galois field GF(q). We find that the correlations in our model do not violate the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) version of Bell's inequality, despite the fact that the predictions of this discrete quantum mechanics cannot be reproduced with any hidden variable theory.

id: 1205.4816
title: Phase estimation by photon counting measurements in the output of a linear Mach Zehnder (MZI) interferometer
authors: Y. Ben-Aryeh
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4816
abstract: Photon counting measurements are analyzed for obtaining a classical phase parameter in linear Mach Zehnder interferometer (MZI), by the use of phase estimation theories. The detailed analysis is made for four cases: a) Coherent states inserted into the interferometer. b) Fock number state inserted in one input port of the interferometer and the vacuum into the other input port. c) Coherent state inserted into one input port of the interferometer and squeezed-vacuum state in the other input port. d) Exchanging the first beam-splitter (BS1) of a MZI by a non-linear system which inserts a NOON state into the interferometer and by using photon counting for parity measurements. The properties of photon counting for obtaining minimal phase uncertainties for the above special cases and for the general case are discussed.

id: 1205.4862
title: Generation and Eight-port Homodyne Characterization of Time-bin Qubits for Continuous-variable Quantum Information Processing
authors: Shuntaro Takeda, Takahiro Mizuta, Maria Fuwa, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Akira Furusawa
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87, 043803 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4862
abstract: We experimentally generate arbitrary time-bin qubits using continuous-wave light. The advantage unique to our qubit is its compatibility with deterministic continuous-variable quantum information processing. This compatibility comes from its optical coherence with continuous waves, well-defined spatio-temporal mode, and frequency spectrum within the operational bandwidth of the current continuous-variable technology. We also demonstrate an efficient scheme to characterize time-bin qubits via eight-port homodyne measurement. This enables the complete characterization of the qubits as two-mode states, as well as a flexible analysis equivalent to the conventional scheme based on a Mach-Zehnder interferometer and photon-detection.

id: 1205.4873
title: Engineering two-mode entangled states between two superconducting resonators by dissipation
authors: Peng-Bo Li, Shao-Yan Gao, Fu-Li Li
comments: 4figures,5pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4873
abstract: We present an experimental feasible scheme to synthesize two-mode continuous-variable entangled states of two superconducting resonators that are interconnected by two gap-tunable superconducting qubits. We show that, with each artificial atom suitably driven by a bichromatic microwave field to induce sidebands in the qubit-resonator coupling, the stationary state of the photon fields in the two resonators can be cooled and steered into a two-mode squeezed vacuum state via a dissipative quantum dynamical process, while the superconducting qubits remain in their ground states. In this scheme the qubit decay plays a positive role and can help drive the system to the target state, which thus converts a detrimental source of noise into a resource.

id: 1205.4890
title: Non-linear optics using cold Rydberg atoms
authors: J. D. Pritchard, K. J. Weatherill, C. S. Adams
comments: 50 pages, 21 figures. Preprint of book chapter submitted to the Annual Review of cold atoms and molecules \copyright (2012) [copyright World Scientific Publishing Company]
journal: Annual Review of Cold Atoms and Molecules, 1, 301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4890
abstract: The implementation of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in a cold Rydberg gas provides an attractive route towards strong photon--photon interactions and fully deterministic all-optical quantum information processing. In this brief review we discuss the underlying principles of how large single photon non-linearities are achieved in this system and describe experimental progress to date.

id: 1205.4899
title: Controlled-NOT gate operating with single photons
authors: M. A. Pooley, D. J. P. Ellis, R. B. Patel, A. J. Bennett, K. H. A. Chan, I. Farrer, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 100, 211103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4899
abstract: The initial proposal for scalable optical quantum computing required single photon sources, linear optical elements such as beamsplitters and phaseshifters, and photon detection. Here we demonstrate a two qubit gate using indistinguishable photons from a quantum dot in a pillar microcavity. As the emitter, the optical circuitry, and the detectors are all semiconductor, this is a promising approach towards creating a fully integrated device for scalable quantum computing.

id: 1205.4926
title: A quantum delayed choice experiment
authors: Alberto Peruzzo, Peter J. Shadbolt, Nicolas Brunner, Sandu Popescu, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: Science, 338(6107):634-637, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4926
abstract: Quantum systems exhibit particle-like or wave-like behaviour depending on the experimental apparatus they are confronted by. This wave-particle duality is at the heart of quantum mechanics, and is fully captured in Wheeler's famous delayed choice gedanken experiment. In this variant of the double slit experiment, the observer chooses to test either the particle or wave nature of a photon after it has passed through the slits. Here we report on a quantum delayed choice experiment, based on a quantum controlled beam-splitter, in which both particle and wave behaviours can be investigated simultaneously. The genuinely quantum nature of the photon's behaviour is tested via a Bell inequality, which here replaces the delayed choice of the observer. We observe strong Bell inequality violations, thus showing that no model in which the photon knows in advance what type of experiment it will be confronted by, hence behaving either as a particle or as wave, can account for the experimental data.

id: 1205.4936
title: Effect of retardation on the dynamics of entanglement between atoms
authors: Q. Gulfam, Z. Ficek, J. Evers
comments: 16 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4936
abstract: The role of retardation in the entanglement dynamics of two distant atoms interacting with a multi-mode field of a ring cavity is discussed. The retardation is associated with a finite time required for light to travel between the atoms located at a finite distance and between the atoms and the cavity boundaries. We explore features in the concurrence indicative of retardation and show how these features evolve depending on the initial state of the system, distance between the atoms and the number of modes to which the atoms are coupled. In particular, we consider the short-time and the long time dynamics for both the multi- and sub-wavelength distances between the atoms. It is found that the retardation effects can qualitatively modify the entanglement dynamics of the atoms not only at multi- but also at sub-wavelength distances. We follow the temporal evolution of the concurrence and find that at short times of the evolution the retardation induces periodic sudden changes of entanglement. To analyze where the entanglement lies in the space spanned by the state vectors of the system, we introduce the collective Dicke states of the atomic system that explicitly account for the sudden changes as a periodic excitation of the atomic system to the maximally entangled symmetric state. At long times, the retardation gives rise to periodic beats in the concurrence that resemble the phenomenon of collapses and revivals in the Jaynes-Cummings model. In addition, we identify parameter values and initial conditions at which the atoms remain separable or are entangled without retardation during the entire evolution time, but exhibit the phenomena of sudden birth and sudden death of entanglement when the retardation is included.

id: 1205.4941
title: Permutationally invariant state reconstruction
authors: Tobias Moroder, Philipp Hyllus, Geza Toth, Christian Schwemmer, Alexander Niggebaum, Stefanie Gaile, Otfried G¨¹hne, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 25 pages, 4 figues, 2 tables
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 105001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4941
abstract: Feasible tomography schemes for large particle numbers must possess, besides an appropriate data acquisition protocol, also an efficient way to reconstruct the density operator from the observed finite data set. Since state reconstruction typically requires the solution of a non-linear large-scale optimization problem, this is a major challenge in the design of scalable tomography schemes. Here we present an efficient state reconstruction scheme for permutationally invariant quantum state tomography. It works for all common state-of-the-art reconstruction principles, including, in particular, maximum likelihood and least squares methods, which are the preferred choices in today's experiments. This high efficiency is achieved by greatly reducing the dimensionality of the problem employing a particular representation of permutationally invariant states known from spin coupling combined with convex optimization, which has clear advantages regarding speed, control and accuracy in comparison to commonly employed numerical routines. First prototype implementations easily allow reconstruction of a state of 20 qubits in a few minutes on a standard computer.

id: 1205.4958
title: Degrees of entanglement for multipartite systems
authors: A. I. Solomon, C.-L. Ho, G. H. E. Duchamp
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 075302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4958
abstract: We propose a unified mathematical scheme, based on a classical tensor isomorphism, for characterizing entanglement that works for pure states of multipartite systems of any number of particles. The degree of entanglement is indicated by a set of absolute values of the determinants for each subspace of the multipartite systems. Unlike other schemes, our scheme provides indication of the degrees of entanglement when the qubits are measured or lost successively, and leads naturally to the necessary and sufficient conditions for multipartite pure states to be separable. For systems with a large number of particles, a rougher indication of the degree of entanglement is provided by the set of mean values of the determinantal values for each subspace of the multipartite systems.

id: 1205.5015
title: Proofs of the Kochen-Specker theorem based on a system of three qubits
authors: Mordecai Waegell, P. K. Aravind
comments: Some typos and minor errors have been corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 405301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5015
abstract: A number of new proofs of the Kochen-Specker theorem are given based on the observables of the three-qubit Pauli group. Each proof is presented in the form of a diagram from which it is obvious by inspection. Each of our observable-based proofs leads to a system of projectors and bases that generally yields a large number of "parity proofs" of the Kochen-Specker theorem. Some examples of such proofs are given and some of their applications are discussed.

id: 1205.5065
title: Unconditional Security In Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5065
abstract: It has been widely claimed and believed that many protocols in quantum key distribution, especially the single-photon BB84 protocol, have been proved unconditionally secure at least in principle, for both asymptotic and finite protocols with realistic bit lengths. In this paper it is pointed out that the only known quantitative justification for such claims is based on incorrect assertions. The precise security requirements are described in terms of the attacker's sequence and bit error probabilities in estimating the key. The extent to which such requirements can be met from a proper trace distance criterion is established. The results show that the quantitative security levels obtainable in concrete protocols with ideal devices do not rule out drastic breach of security unless privacy amplification is more properly applied.

id: 1205.5076
title: Quantum measurement of hyperfine interaction in nitrogen-vacancy center
authors: Kilhyun Bang, Wen Yang, L. J. Sham
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5076
abstract: We propose an efficient quantum measurement protocol for the hyperfine interaction between the electron spin and the $^{15}$N nuclear spin of a diamond nitrogen-vacancy center. In this protocol, a sequence of quantum operations of successively increasing duration is utilized to estimate the hyperfine interaction with successively higher precision approaching the quantum metrology limit. This protocol does not need the preparation of the nuclear spin state. In the presence of realistic operation errors and electron spin decoherence, the overall precision of our protocol still surpasses the standard quantum limit.

id: 1205.5078
title: The driven Harper model
authors: Andrey R. Kolovsky, Giorgio Mantica
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B {\bf 86}, 054306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5078
abstract: We analyze the driven Harper model, which appears in the problem of tight-binding electrons in the Hall configuration (normal to the lattice plane magnetic field plus in-plane electric field). The presence of an electric field extends the celebrated Harper model, which is parametrized by the Peierls phase, into the driven Harper model, which is additionally parametrized by two Bloch frequencies associated with the two components of the electric field. We show that the eigenstates of the driven Harper model are either extended or localized, depending on the commensurability of Bloch frequencies. This results holds for both rational and irrational values of the Peierls phase. In the case of incommensurate Bloch frequencies we provide an estimate for the wave-function localization length.

id: 1205.5113
title: Generalized Hartree Fock Theory for Dispersion Relations of Interacting Fermionic Lattice Systems
authors: Christina V. Kraus, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 195126 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5113
abstract: We study the variational solution of generic interacting fermionic lattice systems using fermionic Gaussian states and show that the process of "gaussification", leading to a nonlinear closed equation of motion for the covariance matrix, is locally optimal in time by relating it to the time-dependent variational principle. By linearising our nonlinear equation of motion around the ground-state fixed point we describe a method to study low-lying excited states leading to a variational method to determine the dispersion relations of generic interacting fermionic lattice systems. This procedure is applied to study the attractive and repulsive Hubbard model on a two-dimensional lattice.

id: 1205.5132
title: Invariant theoretic approach to uncertainty relations for quantum systems
authors: J Solomon Ivan, Krishna Kumar Sabapathy, N. Mukunda, R. Simon
comments: 35 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5132
abstract: We present a general framework and procedure to derive uncertainty relations for observables of quantum systems in a covariant manner. All such relations are consequences of the positive semidefiniteness of the density matrix of a general quantum state. Particular emphasis is given to the action of unitary symmetry operations of the system on the chosen observables, and the covariance of the uncertainty relations under these operations. The general method is applied to the case of an $n$-mode system to recover the $Sp(2n,\,R)$-covariant multi mode generalization of the single mode Schr\"{o}dinger-Robertson Uncertainty Principle; and to the set of all polynomials in canonical variables for a single mode system. In the latter situation, the case of the fourth order moments is analyzed in detail, exploiting covariance under the homogeneous Lorentz group $SO(2,\,1)$ of which the symplectic group $Sp(2,\,R)$ is the double cover.

id: 1205.5142
title: Smooth optimal control with Floquet theory
authors: Bj?rn Bartels, Florian Mintert
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5142
abstract: This paper describes an approach to construct temporally shaped control pulses that drive a quantum system towards desired properties. A parametrization in terms of periodic functions with pre-defined frequencies permits to realize a smooth, typically simple shape of the pulses; their optimization can be performed based on a variational analysis with Floquet theory. As we show with selected specific examples, this approach permits to control the dynamics of interacting spins, such that gate operations and entanglement dynamics can be implemented with very high accuracy.

id: 1205.5185
title: Fate of the cluster state on the square lattice in a magnetic field
authors: H. Kalis, D. Klagges, R. Orus, K.P. Schmidt
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022317 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5185
abstract: The cluster state represents a highly entangled state which is one central object for measurement-based quantum computing. Here we study the robustness of the cluster state on the two-dimensional square lattice at zero temperature in the presence of external magnetic fields by means of different types of high-order series expansions and variational techniques using infinite Projected Entangled Pair States (iPEPS). The phase diagram displays a first-order phase transition line ending in two critical end points. Furthermore, it contains a characteristic self-dual line in parameter space allowing many precise statements. The self-duality is shown to exist on any lattice topology.

id: 1205.5211
title: Quantum star-graph analogues of PT-symmetric square wells
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 20 pp, 1 figure
journal: Canadian Journal of Physics, 2012, 90(12): 1287-1293
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5211
abstract: We pick up a solvable ${\cal PT}-$symmetric quantum square well on an interval of $x \in := (-L,L)\mathbb{G}^{(2)}$ (with an $\alpha-$dependent non-Hermiticity given by Robin boundary conditions) and generalize it. In essence, we just replace the support interval $\mathbb{G}^{(2)}$ (reinterpreted as an equilateral two-pointed star graph with the Kirchhoff matching at the vertex $x=0$) by a $q-$pointed equilateral star graph $\mathbb{G}^{(q)}$ endowed with the simplest complex-rotation-symmetric external $\alpha-$dependent Robin boundary conditions. The remarkably compact form of the secular determinant is then deduced. Its analysis reveals that (1) at any integer $q=2,3,...$, there exists the same, $q-$independent and infinite subfamily of the real energies, and (2) at any special $q=2,6,10,...$, there exists another, additional and $q-$dependent infinite subfamily of the real energies. In the spirit of the recently proposed dynamical construction of the Hilbert space of a quantum system, the physical bound-state interpretation of these eigenvalues is finally proposed.

id: 1205.5231
title: Chain Rules for Smooth Min- and Max-Entropies
authors: Alexander Vitanov, Frederic Dupuis, Marco Tomamichel, Renato Renner
comments: 
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 59, p. 2603-2612 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5231
abstract: The chain rule for the Shannon and von Neumann entropy, which relates the total entropy of a system to the entropies of its parts, is of central importance to information theory. Here we consider the chain rule for the more general smooth min- and max-entropy, used in one-shot information theory. For these entropy measures, the chain rule no longer holds as an equality, but manifests itself as a set of inequalities that reduce to the chain rule for the von Neumann entropy in the i.i.d. case.

id: 1205.5258
title: Photonic quantum memory in two-level ensembles based on modulating the refractive index in time: equivalence to gradient echo memory
authors: James Clark, Khabat Heshami, Christoph Simon
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013833 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5258
abstract: We present a quantum memory protocol that allows to store light in ensembles of two-level atoms, e.g. rare-earth ions doped into a crystal, by modulating the refractive index of the host medium of the atoms linearly in time. We show that under certain conditions the resulting dynamics is equivalent to that underlying the gradient echo memory protocol, which relies on a spatial gradient of the atomic resonance frequencies. We discuss the prospects for an experimental implementation.

id: 1205.5296
title: Particle and anti-particle bosonic entanglement in non-inertial frames
authors: David Edward Bruschi, Andrzej Dragan, Ivette Fuentes, Jorma Louko
comments: Ivette Fuentes previously published as Ivette Fuentes-Guridi and Ivette Fuentes-Schuller
journal: Phys. Rev. D 86, 025026 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5296
abstract: We analyse the entanglement tradeoff between particle and anti-particle modes of a charged bosonic field between inertial and uniformly accelerated observers. In contrast with previous results for fermionic fields, we find that the entanglement redistribution between particle and antiparticle modes does not prevent the entanglement from vanishing in the infinite acceleration limit.

id: 1205.5298
title: Local dynamics in high-order harmonic generation using Bohmian trajectories
authors: J. Wu, B. B. Augstein, C. Figueira de Morisson Faria
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures; the manuscript has been considerably extended and modified with regard to the previous versions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023415 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5298
abstract: We investigate high-order harmonic generation from a Bohmian-mechanical perspective, and find that the innermost part of the core, represented by a single Bohmian trajectory, leads to the main contributions to the high-harmonic spectra. Using time-frequency analysis, we associate this central Bohmian trajectory to an ensemble of unbound classical trajectories leaving and returning to the core, in agreement with the three step model. In the Bohmian scenario, this physical picture builds up non-locally near the core via the quantum mechanical phase of the wavefunction. This implies that the flow of the wavefunction far from the core alters the central Bohmian trajectory. We also show how this phase degrades in time for the peripheral Bohmian trajectories as they leave the core region.

id: 1205.5334
title: Understanding quantization: a hidden variable model
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: 16 pages, based on a talk given at "Emergent Quantum Mechanics (Heinz von Foerster Conference 2011)", see this http URL
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Series 361 (2012) 012018
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5334
abstract: We argue that to solve the foundational problems of quantum theory one has to first understand what it means to quantize a classical system. We then propose a quantization method based on replacement of deterministic c-numbers by stochastically-parameterized c-numbers. Unlike canonical quantization, the method is free from operator ordering ambiguity and the resulting quantum system has a straightforward interpretation as statistical modification of ensemble of classical trajectories. We then develop measurement without wave function collapse \`a la pilot-wave theory and point out new testable predictions.

id: 1205.5401
title: Entanglement trapping in a non-stationary structured reservoir
authors: C. Lazarou, K. Luoma, S. Maniscalco, J. Piilo, B. M. Garraway
comments: 10 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012331 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5401
abstract: We study a single two-level atom interacting with a reservoir of modes defined by a reservoir structure function with a frequency gap. Using the pseudomodes technique, we derive the main features of a trapping state formed in the weak coupling regime. Utilising different entanglement measures we show that strong correlations and entanglement between the atom and the modes are in existence when this state is formed. Furthermore, an unexpected feature for the reservoir is revealed. In the long time limit and for weak coupling the reservoir spectrum is not constant in time.

id: 1205.5406
title: Geometrical view of the Mean King Problem
authors: M. Revzen
comments: 8 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1111.4628, arXiv:1111.6446, arXiv:1201.0465
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5406
abstract: Finite geometry is used to underpin finite, $d^2$, dimensional Hilbert space accommodating two particles, d dimensional each. d=prime $\ne2$. Central role is allotted to states with mutual unbiased bases (MUB) labelling underpinned with points of finite dual affine plane geometry (DAPG). The DAPG lines are shown to underpin maximally entangled states which form an orthonormal basis spanning the space and provide a novel, geometrical view to a new solution of the Mean King Problem (MKP). Brief expositions to the topics considered: MUB, DAPG and the MKP are included rendering the paper self contained.

id: 1205.5440
title: Generalized Schrieffer-Wolff Formalism for Dissipative Systems
authors: Eric M. Kessler
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012126 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5440
abstract: We present a formalized perturbation theory for Markovian open systems in the language of a generalized Schrieffer-Wolff (SW) transformation. A non-unitary rotation decouples the unper- turbed steady states from all fast degrees of freedom, in order to obtain an effective Liouvillian, that reproduces the exact low excitation spectrum of the system. The transformation is derived in a constructive way, yielding a perturbative expansion of the effective Liouville operator. The presented formalism realizes an adiabatic elimination of fast degrees of freedom to arbitrary orders in the perturbation. We exemplarily employ the SW formalism to two generic open systems and discuss general properties of the different orders of the perturbation.

id: 1205.5479
title: Beating noise with abstention in state estimation
authors: Bernat Gendra, Elio Ronco-Bonvehi, John Calsamiglia, Ramon Munoz-Tapia, Emilio Bagan
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14 105015 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5479
abstract: We address the problem of estimating pure qubit states with non-ideal (noisy) measurements in the multiple-copy scenario, where the data consists of a number N of identically prepared qubits. We show that the average fidelity of the estimates can increase significantly if the estimation protocol allows for inconclusive answers, or abstentions. We present the optimal such protocol and compute its fidelity for a given probability of abstention. The improvement over standard estimation, without abstention, can be viewed as an effective noise reduction. These and other results are exemplified for small values of N. For asymptotically large N, we derive analytical expressions of the fidelity and the probability of abstention, and show that for a fixed fidelity gain the latter decreases with N at an exponential rate given by a Kulback-Leibler (relative) entropy. As a byproduct, we obtain an asymptotic expression in terms of this very entropy of the probability that a system of N qubits, all prepared in the same state, has a given total angular momentum. We also discuss an extreme situation where noise increases with N and where estimation with abstention provides a most significant improvement as compared to the standard approach.

id: 1205.5635
title: Harmonic oscillator model for the atom-surface Casimir-Polder interaction energy
authors: Roberto Passante, Lucia Rizzuto, Salvatore Spagnolo, Satoshi Tanaka, Tomio Y. Petrosky
comments: 6 pages
journal: Physical Review A 85, 062109 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5635
abstract: In this paper we consider a quantum harmonic oscillator interacting with the electromagnetic radiation field in the presence of a boundary condition preserving the continuous spectrum of the field, such as an infinite perfectly conducting plate. Using an appropriate Bogoliubov-type transformation we can diagonalize exactly the Hamiltonian of our system in the continuum limit and obtain non-perturbative expressions for its ground-state energy. From the expressions found, the atom-wall Casimir-Polder interaction energy can be obtained, and well-know lowest-order results are recovered as a limiting case. Use and advantage of this method for dealing with other systems where perturbation theory cannot be used is also discussed.

id: 1205.5659
title: Electron spin resonance detected by a superconducting qubit
authors: Y. Kubo, I. Diniz, C. Grezes, T. Umeda, J. Isoya, H. Sumiya, T. Yamamoto, H. Abe, S. Onoda, T. Ohshima, V. Jacques, A. Dr¨¦au, J.-F. Roch, A. Auffeves, D. Vion, D. Esteve, P. Bertet
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, submitted to PRX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5659
abstract: A new method for detecting the magnetic resonance of electronic spins at low temperature is demonstrated. It consists in measuring the signal emitted by the spins with a superconducting qubit that acts as a single-microwave-photon detector, resulting in an enhanced sensitivity. We implement this new type of electron-spin resonance spectroscopy using a hybrid quantum circuit in which a transmon qubit is coupled to a spin ensemble consisting of NV centers in diamond. With this setup we measure the NV center absorption spectrum at 30mK at an excitation level of \thicksim15\,\mu_{B} out of an ensemble of 10^{11} spins.

id: 1205.5665
title: Controllable quantum correlations of two-photon states generated using classically driven three-level atoms
authors: Himadri Shekhar Dhar, Subhashish Banerjee, Arpita Chatterjee, Rupamanjari Ghosh
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, elsarticle, final accepted version
journal: Annals of Physics 331, 97 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5665
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of two-photon correlations generated by the interaction of a three-level atom in the $\Xi$, $\Lambda$ or V configuration, with two classical external driving fields, under the rotating-wave approximation, in the presence of level decays. Using the example of a rubidium atom in each configuration, with field strengths validating the single-photon approximation, we compute measurement based correlations, such as measurement induced disturbance (MID), quantum discord (QD), and quantum work deficit (WD), and compare the results with that of quantum entanglement (concurrence). Certain correlation properties observed are generic, model independent and consistent with known results, e.g., MID is an upper bound on QD, QD and WD are monotonic, and the generic correlation behavior is strongly affected by the purity of the photon states. We observe that the qualitative hierarchy, monotonicity and steady-state behavior of the correlations can be controlled by the choice of parameters such as atomic decay constants and external driving field strengths. We point out how particular configurations are better suited at generating monotonic correlations in specific regimes and how the steady-state correlation behavior and hierarchy are affected by the population dynamics of the density matrix for different parameters. The possibility of using well studied quantum optical systems such as the three-level atom to generate, characterize and parametrically control mixed state quantum correlations establishes an important step in the direction of their implementation in quantum information tasks.

id: 1205.5667
title: Study of two-spin entanglement in singlet states
authors: M. Q. Lone, A. Dey, S. Yarlagadda
comments: 15 pages main text; 11 pages of supplemental material
journal: Solid State Communications vol. 202, 73 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5667
abstract: We study the entanglement properties of two-spin subsystems in spin-singlet states. The average entanglement between two spins is maximized in a single valence-bond (VB) state. On the other hand, $E_v^2$ (the average entanglement between a subsystem of two spins and the rest of the system) can be maximized through a homogenized superposition of the VB states. The maximal $E_v^2$ rapidly increases with system size and saturates at its maximum allowed value. We adopt two ways of obtaining maximal $E_v^2$ states: (1) imposing homogeneity on singlet states; and (2) generating isotropy in a general homogeneous state. By using these two approaches, we construct explicitly four-spin and six-spin highly entangled states that are both isotropic and homogeneous. Our maximal $E^2_v$ states represent a new class of resonating-valence-bond states which we show to be the ground states of the infinite-range Heisenberg model.

id: 1205.5729
title: Blind Reconciliation
authors: Jesus Martinez-Mateo, David Elkouss, Vicente Martin
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 12, No. 9&10 (2012) 0791-0812
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5729
abstract: Information reconciliation is a crucial procedure in the classical post-processing of quantum key distribution (QKD). Poor reconciliation efficiency, revealing more information than strictly needed, may compromise the maximum attainable distance, while poor performance of the algorithm limits the practical throughput in a QKD device. Historically, reconciliation has been mainly done using close to minimal information disclosure but heavily interactive procedures, like Cascade, or using less efficient but also less interactive -just one message is exchanged- procedures, like the ones based in low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes. The price to pay in the LDPC case is that good efficiency is only attained for very long codes and in a very narrow range centered around the quantum bit error rate (QBER) that the code was designed to reconcile, thus forcing to have several codes if a broad range of QBER needs to be catered for. Real world implementations of these methods are thus very demanding, either on computational or communication resources or both, to the extent that the last generation of GHz clocked QKD systems are finding a bottleneck in the classical part. In order to produce compact, high performance and reliable QKD systems it would be highly desirable to remove these problems. Here we analyse the use of short-length LDPC codes in the information reconciliation context using a low interactivity, blind, protocol that avoids an a priori error rate estimation. We demonstrate that 2x10^3 bits length LDPC codes are suitable for blind reconciliation. Such codes are of high interest in practice, since they can be used for hardware implementations with very high throughput.

id: 1205.5744
title: Thermodynamic formalism for dissipative quantum walks
authors: Silvano Garnerone
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032342 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5744
abstract: We consider the dynamical properties of dissipative continuous-time quantum walks on directed graphs. Using a large-deviation approach we construct a thermodynamic formalism allowing us to define a dynamical order parameter, and to identify transitions between dynamical regimes. For a particular class of dissipative quantum walks we propose a quantum generalization of the the classical PageRank vector, used to rank the importance of nodes in a directed graph. We also provide an example where one can characterize the dynamical transition from an effective classical random walk to a dissipative quantum walk as a thermodynamic crossover between distinct dynamical regimes.

id: 1205.5851
title: Zero-error classical capacity of qubit channels cannot be superactivated
authors: Jeonghoon Park, Soojoon Lee
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052321 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5851
abstract: It was shown [T.S. Cubitt et al., IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory 57, 8114 (2011)] that there exist quantum channels where a single use cannot transmit classical information perfectly yet two uses can. This phenomenon is called the superactivation of the zero-error classical capacity which does not occur in classical channels. In this paper, it is shown that qubit channels cannot generate the superactivation.

id: 1205.5942
title: Time operator in QFT with Virasoro constraints
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Qi Qiu, Cai-Dong Xiong
comments: 13 pages, No figure, to be published in Physics Letters B
journal: Physics Letters B 718 (2013) 1515-1518
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5942
abstract: Time operator is studied on the basis of field quantization, where the difficulty stemming from Pauli's theorem is circumvented by borrowing ideas from the covariant quantization of the bosonic string, i.e., one can remove the negative energy states by imposing Virasoro constraints. Applying the index theorem, one can show that in a different subspace of a Fock space, there is a different self-adjoint time operator. However, the self-adjoint time operator in the maximal subspace of the Fock space can also represent the self-adjoint time operator in the other subspaces, such that it can be taken as the single, universal time operator. Furthermore, a new insight on Pauli's theorem is presented.

id: 1205.5969
title: Dynamics of genuine multipartite correlations in open quantum systems
authors: Arne L. Grimsmo, Scott Parkins, Bo-Sture K. Skagerstam
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5969
abstract: We propose a measure for genuine multipartite correlations suited for the study of dynamics in open quantum systems. This measure is contextual in the sense that it depends on how information is read from the environment. It is used to study an interacting collective system of atoms undergoing phase transitions as external parameters are varied. We show that the steady state of the system can have a significant degree of genuine multipartite quantum and classical correlations, and that the proposed measure can serve as a witness of critical behavior in quantum systems.

id: 1205.5980
title: Performance of polar codes for quantum and private classical communication
authors: Zachary Dutton, Saikat Guha, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, submission to the 50th Annual Allerton Conference on Communication, Control, and Computing 2012
journal: Proceedings of the 50th Annual Allerton Conference on Communication, Control, and Computing, pages 572-579, October 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5980
abstract: We analyze the practical performance of quantum polar codes, by computing rigorous bounds on block error probability and by numerically simulating them. We evaluate our bounds for quantum erasure channels with coding block lengths between 2^10 and 2^20, and we report the results of simulations for quantum erasure channels, quantum depolarizing channels, and "BB84" channels with coding block lengths up to N = 1024. For quantum erasure channels, we observe that high quantum data rates can be achieved for block error rates less than 10^(-4) and that somewhat lower quantum data rates can be achieved for quantum depolarizing and BB84 channels. Our results here also serve as bounds for and simulations of private classical data transmission over these channels, essentially due to Renes' duality bounds for privacy amplification and classical data transmission of complementary observables. Future work might be able to improve upon our numerical results for quantum depolarizing and BB84 channels by employing a polar coding rule other than the heuristic used here.

id: 1205.6004
title: Input-output Gaussian channels: theory and application
authors: Tommaso Tufarelli, Alex Retzker, Martin B. Plenio, Alessio Serafini
comments: 13+7 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 093046
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6004
abstract: Setting off from the classic input-output formalism, we develop a theoretical framework to characterise the Gaussian quantum channels relating the initial correlations of an open bosonic system to those of properly identified output modes. We then proceed to apply our formalism to the case of quantum harmonic oscillators, such as the motional degrees of freedom of trapped ions or nanomechanical oscillators, interacting with travelling electromagnetic modes through cavity fields and subject to external white noise. Thus, we determine the degree of squeezing that can be transferred from an intra-cavity oscillator to light, and also show that the intra-cavity squeezing can be transformed into distributed optical entanglement if one can access both output fields of a two-sided cavity.

id: 1205.6016
title: Detecting genuine multipartite correlations in terms of the rank of coefficient matrix
authors: Bo Li, Leong Chuan Kwek, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Comments are welcome
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. V45 505301(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6016
abstract: We propose a method to detect genuine quantum correlation for arbitrary quantum state in terms of the rank of coefficient matrices associated with the pure state. We then derive a necessary and sufficient condition for a quantum state to possess genuine correlation, namely that all corresponding coefficient matrices have rank larger than one. We demonstrate an approach to decompose the genuine quantum correlated state with high rank coefficient matrix into the form of product states with no genuine quantum correlation for pure state.

id: 1205.6020
title: Non-Markovian dynamics for an open two-level system without rotating wave approximation: Indivisibility versus backflow of information
authors: Hao-Sheng Zeng, Ning Tang, Yan-Ping Zheng, Tian-Tian Xu
comments: 
journal: Eur.Phys.J. D (2012) 66, 255
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6020
abstract: By use of the two measures presented recently, the indivisibility and the backflow of information, we study the non-Markovianity of the dynamics for a two-level system interacting with a zero-temperature structured environment without using rotating wave approximation (RWA). In the limit of weak coupling between the system and the reservoir, and by expanding the time-convolutionless (TCL) generator to the forth order with respect to the coupling strength, the time-local non-Markovian master equation for the reduced state of the system is derived. Under the secular approximation, the exact analytic solution is obtained and the sufficient and necessary conditions for the indivisibility and the backflow of information for the system dynamics are presented. In the more general case, we investigate numerically the properties of the two measures for the case of Lorentzian reservoir. Our results show the importance of the counter-rotating terms to the short-time-scale non-Markovian behavior of the system dynamics, further expose the relations between the two measures and their rationality as non-Markovian measures. Finally, the complete positivity of the dynamics of the considered system is discussed.

id: 1205.6029
title: Hysteretic method for measuring the flux trapped within the core of a superconducting lead-coated ferromagnetic torus by a linked superconducting tin ring, in a novel Aharonov-Bohm-like effect based on the Feynman path-integral principle
authors: Raymond Chiao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6029
abstract: A novel kind of nonlocal, macroscopic Aharonov-Bohm effect involving two topologically linked superconducting rings made out of two different materials, namely, lead and tin, is suggested for experimental observation, in which the lead ring is a torus containing a core composed of permanently magnetized ferromagnetic material. It is predicted that the remnant fields in a hysteresis loop induced by the application of a magnetic field imposed by a large external pair of Helmholtz coils upon the tin ring, will be asymmetric with respect to the origin of the loop. An appendix based on Feynman's path-integral principle is the basis for these predictions.

id: 1205.6089
title: Quantum systems in a stationary environment out of thermal equilibrium
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Riccardo Messina, Didier Felbacq, Mauro Antezza
comments: 20 pages, 15 figures, published version
journal: Physical Review A 87, 012101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6089
abstract: We discuss how the thermalization of an elementary quantum system is modified when the system is placed in an environment out of thermal equilibrium. To this aim we provide a detailed investigation of the dynamics of an atomic system placed close to a body of arbitrary geometry and dielectric permittivity, whose temperature $T_M$ is different from that of the surrounding walls $T_W$. A suitable master equation for the general case of an $N$-level atom is first derived and then specialized to the cases of a two- and three-level atom. Transition rates and steady states are explicitly expressed as a function of the scattering matrices of the body and become both qualitatively and quantitatively different from the case of radiation at thermal equilibrium. Out of equilibrium, the system steady state depends on the system-body distance, on the geometry of the body and on the interplay of all such parameters with the body optical resonances. While a two-level atom tends toward a thermal state, this is not the case already in the presence of three atomic levels. This peculiar behavior can be exploited, for example, to invert the populations ordering and to provide an efficient cooling mechanism for the internal state of the quantum system. We finally provide numerical studies and asymptotic expressions when the body is a slab of finite thickness. Our predictions can be relevant for a wide class of experimental configurations out of thermal equilibrium involving different physical realizations of two or three-level systems.

id: 1205.6131
title: Is the quantum hydrodynamic analogy more general than the Schroedinger approach?
authors: Piero Chiarelli
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1107.4198
journal: Int. Arch. 1(2) (2012) 21-29
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6131
abstract: The quantum hydrodynamic analogy (QHA), equivalent to the Schr\"odinger equation, is investigated and extended to the stochastic case. The investigation shows that in addition to reproducing the standard quantum mechanics the QHA model is able to generally describe the quantum stochastic dynamics leading to the dissipative Schr\"odinger equation given by Kostin [55] as a particular case. The inspection shows that the QHA is well suited for the treatment of problems where local noise (spatially distributed one) is introduced. In this case the analysis shows that the bi-univocal correspondence between the QHA and the Schr\"odinger approach breaks down and that the states described by the QHA do not have their corresponding ones into the Schr\"odinger description.

id: 1205.6135
title: Irreversibility, Information and Randomness in Quantum Measurements
authors: S. N. Mayburov
comments: 13 pages, Talk given at 'Irreversibility in Classical and Quantum Systems' conference, Moscow, december 2011, to appear in proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6135
abstract: Irreversibility in quantum measurements is considered from the point of quantum information theory. For that purpose the information transfer between the measured object S and measuring system O is analyzed. It's found that due to the principal constraints of quantum-mechanical origin, the information about the purity of S state isn't transferred to O during the measurement of arbitraryS observable V. Consequently O can't discriminate the pure and mixed S ensembles with the same <V>. As the result, the random outcomes should be detected by O in V measurement for S pure ensemble of V eigenstate superposition. It's shown that the outcome probabilties obey to Born rule. The influence of O decoherence by its environment is studied, however the account of its effects doesn't change these results principally.

id: 1205.6188
title: Consistent histories for tunneling molecules subject to collisional decoherence
authors: Patrick J. Coles, Vlad Gheorghiu, Robert B. Griffiths
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 042111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6188
abstract: The decoherence of a two-state tunneling molecule, such as a chiral molecule or ammonia, due to collisions with a buffer gas is analyzed in terms of a succession of quantum states of the molecule satisfying the conditions for a consistent family of histories. With $\hbar \omega$ the separation in energy of the levels in the isolated molecule and $\gamma$ a decoherence rate proportional to the rate of collisions, we find for $\gamma \gg \omega$ (strong decoherence) a consistent family in which the molecule flips randomly back and forth between the left- and right-handed chiral states in a stationary Markov process. For $\gamma < \omega$ there is a family in which the molecule oscillates continuously between the different chiral states, but with occasional random changes of phase, at a frequency that goes to zero at a phase transition $\gamma = \omega$. This transition is similar to the behavior of the inversion frequency of ammonia with increasing pressure, but will be difficult to observe in chiral molecules such as D$_2$S$_2$. There are additional consistent families both for $\gamma > \omega$ and for $\gamma < \omega$. In addition we relate the speed with which chiral information is transferred to the environment to the rate of decrease of complementary types of information (e.g., parity information) remaining in the molecule itself.

id: 1205.6195
title: Heralded processes on continuous-variable spaces as quantum maps
authors: Franck Ferreyrol, Nicol¨° Spagnolo, R¨¦mi Blandino, Marco Barbieri, Rosa Tualle-Brouri
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures. Minor changes
journal: Physical Review A 86, 6 (2012) 062327
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6195
abstract: Conditional evolution is crucial for generating non-Gaussian resources for quantum information tasks in the continuous variable scenario. However, tools are lacking for a convenient representation of heralded process in terms of quantum maps for continuous variable states, in the same way as Wigner functions are able to give a compact description of the quantum state. Here we propose and study such a representation, based on the introduction of a suitable transfer function to describe the action of a quantum operation on the Wigner function. We also reconstruct the maps of two relevant examples of conditional process, that is, noiseless amplification and photon addition, by combining experimental data and a detailed physical model. This analysis allows to fully characterize the effect of experimental imperfections in their implementations.

id: 1205.6220
title: Open quantum system identification
authors: Sophie G. Schirmer, Daniel K. L. Oi, Weiwei Zhou, Erling Gong, Ming Zhang
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, IoP LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6220
abstract: Engineering quantum systems offers great opportunities both technologically and scientifically for communication, computation, and simulation. The construction and operation of large scale quantum information devices presents a grand challenge and a major issue is the effective control of coherent dynamics. This is often in the presence of decoherence which further complicates the task of determining the behaviour of the system. Here, we show how to determine open system Markovian dynamics of a quantum system with restricted initialisation and partial output state information.

id: 1205.6239
title: Harmonic Oscillator SUSY Partners and Evolution Loops
authors: David J. Fern¨¢ndez C
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 041, 12 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6239
abstract: Supersymmetric quantum mechanics is a powerful tool for generating exactly solvable potentials departing from a given initial one. If applied to the harmonic oscillator, a family of Hamiltonians ruled by polynomial Heisenberg algebras is obtained. In this paper it will be shown that the SUSY partner Hamiltonians of the harmonic oscillator can produce evolution loops. The corresponding geometric phases will be as well studied.

id: 1205.6253
title: Teleportation of Nonclassical Wave Packets of light
authors: Noriyuki Lee, Hugo Benichi, Yuishi Takeno, Shuntaro Takeda, James Webb, Elanor Huntington, Akira Furusawa
comments: 
journal: Science 332, 330 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6253
abstract: We report on the experimental quantum teleportation of strongly nonclassical wave packets of light. To perform this full quantum operation while preserving and retrieving the fragile non-classicality of the input state, we have developed a broadband, zero-dispersion teleportation apparatus that works in conjunction with time-resolved state preparation equipment. Our approach brings within experimental reach a whole new set of hybrid protocols involving discrete- and continuous-variable techniques in quantum information processing for optical sciences.

id: 1205.6279
title: Dynamical preparation of EPR entanglement in two-well Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: B. Opanchuk, Q. Y. He, M. D. Reid, P. D. Drummond
comments: 15 pages, 19 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86 (2), 023625 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6279
abstract: We propose to generate Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entanglement between groups of atoms in a two-well Bose-Einstein condensate using a dynamical process similar to that employed in quantum optics. The local nonlinear S-wave scattering interaction has the effect of creating a spin squeezing at each well, while the tunneling, analogous to a beam splitter in optics, introduces an interference between these fields that results in an inter-well entanglement. We consider two internal modes at each well, so that the entanglement can be detected by measuring a reduction in the variances of the sums of local Schwinger spin observables. As is typical of continuous variable (CV) entanglement, the entanglement is predicted to increase with atom number, and becomes sufficiently strong at higher numbers of atoms that the EPR paradox and steering non-locality can be realized. The entanglement is predicted using an analytical approach and, for larger atom numbers, stochastic simulations based on truncated Wigner function. We find generally that strong tunnelling is favourable, and that entanglement persists and is even enhanced in the presence of realistic nonlinear losses.

id: 1205.6329
title: Two-qubit parametric amplifier: large amplification of weak signals
authors: S. Savel'ev, A. M. Zagoskin, A. L. Rakhmanov, A. N. Omelyanchouk, Z. Washington, Franco Nori
comments: 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013811 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6329
abstract: Using numerical simulations, we show that two coupled qubits can amplify a weak signal about hundredfold. This can be achieved if the two qubits are biased simultaneously by this weak signal and a strong pump signal, both of which having frequencies close to the inter-level transitions in the system. The weak signal strongly affects the spectrum generated by the strong pumping drive by producing and controlling mixed harmonics with amplitudes of the order of the main harmonic of the strong drive. We show that the amplification is robust with respect to noise, with an intensity of the order of the weak signal. When deviating from the optimal regime (corresponding to strong qubit coupling and a weak-signal frequency equal to the inter-level transition frequency) the proposed amplifier becomes less efficient, but it can still considerably enhance a weak signal (by several tens). We therefore propose to use coupled qubits as a combined parametric amplifier and frequency shifter.

id: 1205.6337
title: Noise-spectroscopy of multiqubit systems: Determining all their parameters by applying an external classical noise
authors: S. Savel'ev, A. M. Zagoskin, A. N. Omelyanchouk, F. Nori
comments: 3 figures
journal: Chemical Physics 375, 180 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6337
abstract: Imagine that you have several sets of two coupled qubits, but you do not know the parameters of their Hamitonians. How to determine these without resorting to the usual spectroscopy approach to the problem? Based on numerical modeling, we show that all the parameters of a system of two coupled qubits can be determined by applying to it an external classical noise and analysing the Fourier spectrum of the elements of the system's density matrix. In particular, the interlevel spacings as well as the strength and sign of qubit-qubit coupling can be determined this way.

id: 1205.6364
title: Standing wave vs Green's function approach to the Casimir force problem
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Schuller, Renaud Savalle, Michael Neumann-Spallart
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6364
abstract: After a short recall of our previous standing wave approach to the Casimir force problem, we consider Lifshitz's temperature Green's function method and its virtues from a physical point of view. Using his formula, specialized for perfectly reflecting mirrors, we present a quantitative discussion of the temperature effect on the attractive force.

id: 1205.6375
title: Frequency Division Multiplexing Readout and Simultaneous Manipulation of an Array of Flux Qubits
authors: Markus Jerger, Stefano Poletto, Pascal Macha, Uwe H¨¹bner, Evgeni Il'ichev, Alexey V. Ustinov
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6375
abstract: An important desired ingredient of superconducting quantum circuits is a readout scheme whose complexity does not increase with the number of qubits involved in the measurement. Here, we present a readout scheme employing a single microwave line, which enables simultaneous readout of multiple qubits. Consequently, scaling up superconducting qubit circuits is no longer limited by the readout apparatus. Parallel readout of 6 flux qubits using a frequency division multiplexing technique is demonstrated, as well as simultaneous manipulation and time resolved measurement of 3 qubits. We discuss how this technique can be scaled up to read out hundreds of qubits on a chip.

id: 1205.6390
title: Predecoherence: before Decoherence and Collapse
authors: Roland Omn¨¨s
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6390
abstract: Predecoherence, as its name indicates, is the same physical effect as decoherence, originating in the same interactions with an environment, injecting also incoherence and breaking unitarity. But whereas decoherence acts immediately after a measurement, predecoherence is acting long before. It is also a very strong effect and its main properties are established in this paper, including generation, transport, damping, and stationary level. A mechanism for objectification, or wave function collapse, is also proposed as consisting in a perturbation by predecoherence of the intricacy between a measuring system and a measured one. The theory is made explicit on a special example and the quantitative results are found sensible.

id: 1205.6419
title: Dynamics of quantum correlations in two-qubit systems within non-Markovian environments
authors: Rosario Lo Franco, Bruno Bellomo, Sabrina Maniscalco, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures. Review article, in press in Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems", edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1245053 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6419
abstract: Knowledge of the dynamical behavior of correlations with no classical counterpart, like entanglement, nonlocal correlations and quantum discord, in open quantum systems is of primary interest because of the possibility to exploit these correlations for quantum information tasks. Here we review some of the most recent results on the dynamics of correlations in bipartite systems embedded in non-Markovian environments that, with their memory effects, influence in a relevant way the system dynamics and appear to be more fundamental than the Markovian ones for practical purposes. Firstly, we review the phenomenon of entanglement revivals in a two-qubit system for both independent environments and a common environment. We then consider the dynamics of quantum discord in non-Markovian dephasing channel and briefly discuss the occurrence of revivals of quantum correlations in classical environments.

id: 1205.6449
title: Modular magnetic field on the z-direction on a chain of nuclear spin system and quantum Not and Controlled-Not gates
authors: G.V. Lopez, M. Avila
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Revista Mexicana de Fisica 57 (3) 215-219 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6449
abstract: We study the simulation of a single qubit rotation and Controlled-Not gate in a solid state one-dimensional chain of nuclear spins system interacting weakly through an Ising type of interaction with a modular component of the magnetic field in the z-direction, characterized by $B_z(z,t)=Bo(z)\cos\delta t$. These qubits are subjected to electromagnetic pulses which determine the transition in the one or two qubits system. We use the fidelity parameter to determine the performance of the Not (N) gate and Controlled-Not (CNOT) gate as a function of the frequency parameter $\delta$. We found that for $|\delta|\le 10^{-3} MHz$, these gates still have good fidelity.

id: 1205.6461
title: Optical Single Photons on Demand Teleported from Microwave Cavities
authors: Sh. Barzanjeh, G. J. Milburn, D. Vitali, P. Tombesi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6461
abstract: We propose a scheme for entangling the optical and microwave output modes of the respective cavities by using a micro mechanical resonator. The micro-mechanical resonator on one side is capacitively coupled to the microwave cavity and on the other side is coupled to a high finesses optical cavity. We then show how this continuous variable entanglement can be profitably used to teleport the non-Gaussian number state |1> and the superposition (|0>+|1>)/\surd2 from the microwave cavity output mode onto an output of optical cavity mode with fidelity much larger than the no-cloning limit.

id: 1205.6528
title: Coherent transfer of optical orbital angular momentum in multi-order Raman sideband generation
authors: J. Strohaber, M. Zhi, A. V. Sokolov, A. A. Kolomenskii, G. G. Paulus, H. A. Schuessler
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6528
abstract: Experimental results from the generation of Raman sidebands using optical vortices are presented. By generating two sets of sidebands originating from different locations in a Raman active crystal, one set containing optical orbital angular momentum and the other serving as a reference, a Young's double slit experiment was simultaneously realized for each sideband. The interference between the two sets of sidebands was used to determine the helicity and topological charge in each order. Topological charges in all orders were found to be discrete and follow selection rules predicted by a cascaded Raman process.

id: 1205.6585
title: Flexible generation of correlated photon pairs in different frequency ranges
authors: Fernando Oster, Christoph H Keitel, Mihai Macovei
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063814 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6585
abstract: The feasibility to generate correlated photon pairs at variable frequencies is investigated. For this purpose, we consider the interaction of an off-resonant laser field with a two-level system possessing broken inversion symmetry. We show that the system generates non-classical photon pairs exhibiting strong intensity-intensity correlations. The intensity of the applied laser tunes the degree of correlation while the detuning controls the frequency of one of the photons which can be in the THz-domain. Furthermore, we observe the violation of a Cauchy-Schwarz inequality characterizing these photons.

id: 1205.6596
title: Quantum-correlated motion and heralded entanglement of distant optomechanically coupled objects
authors: Wolfgang Niedenzu, Raimar M. Sandner, Claudiu Genes, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 45, 245501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6596
abstract: The motion of two distant trapped particles or mechanical oscillators can be strongly coupled by light modes in a high finesse optical resonator. In a two mode ring cavity geometry, trapping, cooling and coupling is implemented by the same modes. While the cosine mode provides for trapping, the sine mode facilitates ground state cooling and mediates non-local interactions. For classical point particles the centre-of-mass mode is strongly damped and the individual momenta get anti-correlated. Surprisingly, quantum fluctuations induce the opposite effect of positively-correlated particle motion, which close to zero temperature generates entanglement. The non-classical correlations and entanglement are dissipation-induced and particularly strong after detection of a scattered photon in the sine mode. This allows for heralded entanglement by post-selection. Entanglement is concurrent with squeezing of the particle distance and relative momenta, while the centre-of-mass observables acquire larger uncertainties.

id: 1205.6601
title: Defeating entanglement sudden death by a single local filtering
authors: Michael Siomau, Ali A. Kamli
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6601
abstract: Genuine multipartite entanglement of a quantum system can be partially destroyed by local decoherence. Is it possible to retrieve the entanglement to some extent by a single local operation? The answer to this question depends very much on the type of initial genuine entanglement. For initially pure W and cluster states and if the decoherence is given by generalized amplitude damping, the answer is shown to be positive. In this case, the entanglement retrieving is achieved just by redistributing the remained entanglement of the system.

id: 1205.6604
title: Superparabolic Level Glancing Models for Two-State Quantum Systems
authors: J. Lehto, K.-A. Suominen
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6604
abstract: Level crossing models for two-state quantum systems are applicable to a wide variety of physical problems. We address the special case of level glancing, i.e., when energy levels reach a degeneracy at a specific point of time, but never actually cross. The simplest model with such behaviour is the parabolic model, and its generalizations, which we call superparabolic models. We discuss their basic characteristics, complementing the previous work on the related nonlinear crossing models [Phys. Rev. A 59, 4580 (1999)].

id: 1205.6672
title: Reply to "Comment on 'Security proof for cryptographic protocols based only on the monogamy of Bell's inequality violations' "
authors: M. Pawlowski
comments: for the comment see arXiv:1204.4235
journal: PRA 85, 046302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6672
abstract: In this reply I address the comment by W-Y. Hwang and O. Gittsovich on my paper [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 82}, 032313 (2010)]. The authors of the comment point out that I use implicit assumption that the alphabet of the eavesdropper is binary. They claim that such assumption is unrealistic. Here I show that even without this assumption the main result of my paper still holds.

id: 1205.6715
title: The robustness of magic state distillation against errors in Clifford gates
authors: Tomas Jochym-O'Connor, Yafei Yu, Bassam Helou, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 13:361-378, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6715
abstract: Quantum error correction and fault-tolerance have provided the possibility for large scale quantum computations without a detrimental loss of quantum information. A very natural class of gates for fault-tolerant quantum computation is the Clifford gate set and as such their usefulness for universal quantum computation is of great interest. Clifford group gates augmented by magic state preparation give the possibility of simulating universal quantum computation. However, experimentally one cannot expect to perfectly prepare magic states. Nonetheless, it has been shown that by repeatedly applying operations from the Clifford group and measurements in the Pauli basis, the fidelity of noisy prepared magic states can be increased arbitrarily close to a pure magic state [1]. We investigate the robustness of magic state distillation to perturbations of the initial states to arbitrary locations in the Bloch sphere due to noise. Additionally, we consider a depolarizing noise model on the quantum gates in the decoding section of the distillation protocol and demonstrate its effect on the convergence rate and threshold value. Finally, we establish that faulty magic state distillation is more efficient than fault-tolerance-assisted magic state distillation at low error rates due to the large overhead in the number of quantum gates and qubits required in a fault-tolerance architecture. The ability to perform magic state distillation with noisy gates leads us to conclude that this could be a realistic scheme for future small-scale quantum computing devices as fault-tolerance need only be used in the final steps of the protocol.

id: 1205.6720
title: Schroedinger equation and classical physics
authors: Milos V. Lokajicek
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6720
abstract: Any time-dependent solution of Schr\"{o}dinger equation may be always correlated to a solution of Hamilton equations or to a statistical combination of their solutions; only the set of corresponding solutions is somewhat smaller (due to existence of quantization). There is not any reason to the physical interpretation according to Copenhagen alternative as Bell's inequalities are valid in the classical physics only (and not in any alternative based on Schr\"{o}dinger equation). The advantage of Schr\"{o}dinger equation consists then in that it enables to represent directly the time evolution of a statistical distribution of classical initial states (which is usual in collision experiments). The Schr\"{o}dinger equation (without assumptions added by Bohr) may then represent the common physical theory for microscopic as well as macroscopic physical systems. However, together with the last possibility the solutions of Schr\"{o}dinger equation may be helpful also in analyzing the influence of other statistically distributed properties (e.g., spin orientations or space structures) of individual matter objects forming a corresponding physical system, which goes in principle beyond the classical physics. In any case, the contemporary quantum theory represents the phenomenological approximative description of some matter characteristics only, without providing any insight into quantum mechanism emergence. In such a case it is necessary to take into account more detailed properties at least of some involved objects.

id: 1205.6726
title: Exciton-mediated photothermal cooling in GaAs membranes
authors: Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Koji Usami, Andreas Naesby, Eugene S. Polzik, Klemens Hammerer
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 085024 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6726
abstract: Cooling of the mechanical motion of a GaAs nano-membrane using the photothermal effect mediated by excitons was recently demonstrated by some of us [K. Usami, et al., Nature Phys. 8, 168 (2012)] and provides a clear example of the use of thermal forces to cool down mechanical motion. Here, we report on a single-free-parameter theoretical model to explain the results of this experiment which matches the experimental data remarkably well.

id: 1205.6750
title: Decoherence without Dissipation
authors: W. G. Unruh
comments: 4 pages-- To appear in Phil Trans Roy Soc in special issue on Decoherence, ed. A. Hagar
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6750
abstract: That decoherence can take place in the presence of energy conservation seems to be a poorly known fact. That lack of knowledge has for example bedevilled the discussion of the "black hole information" problem. I present a simple model which illustrates such energy free decoherence.

id: 1205.6771
title: Regularization of Tunneling Rates with Quantum Chaos
authors: Louis M. Pecora, Hoshik Lee, Dong-Ho Wu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6771
abstract: We study tunneling in various shaped, closed, two-dimensional, flat potential, double wells by calculating the energy splitting between symmetric and anti-symmetric state pairs. For shapes that have regular or nearly regular classical behavior (e.g. rectangular or circular) the tunneling rates vary greatly over wide ranges often by several orders of magnitude. However, for well shapes that admit more classically chaotic behavior (e.g. the stadium, the Sinai billiard) the range of tunneling rates narrows, often by orders of magnitude. This dramatic narrowing appears to come from destabilization of periodic orbits in the regular wells that produce the largest and smallest tunneling rates and causes the splitting vs. energy relation to take on a possibly universal shape. It is in this sense that we say the quantum chaos regularizes the tunneling rates.

id: 1205.6784
title: Dynamics of an elementary quantum system in environments out of thermal equilibrium
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Riccardo Messina, Mauro Antezza
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures (extended version corresponding to the published one)
journal: Europhys. Lett. 100, 20006 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6784
abstract: We study the internal dynamics of an elementary quantum system placed close to a body held at a temperature different from that of the surrounding radiation. We derive general expressions for lifetime and density matrix valid for bodies of arbitrary geometry and dielectric permittivity. Out of equilibrium, the thermalization process and steady states become both qualitatively and quantitatively significantly different from the case of radiation at thermal equilibrium. For the case of a three-level atom close to a slab of finite thickness, we predict the occurrence of population inversion and an efficient cooling mechanism for the quantum system, whose effective internal temperature can be driven to values much lower than both involved temperatures. Our results show that non-equilibrium configurations provide new promising ways to control the state of an atomic system.

id: 1205.6872
title: An open source MATLAB program for fast numerical Feynman integral calculations for open quantum system dynamics on GPUs
authors: Nikesh S. Dattani
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, 1 table, 22 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6872
abstract: This MATLAB program calculates the dynamics of the reduced density matrix of an open quantum system modeled by the Feynman-Vernon model. The user gives the program a vector describing the coordinate of an open quantum system, a hamiltonian matrix describing its energy, and a spectral distribution function and temperature describing the environment's influence on it, in addition to the open quantum system's intial density matrix and a grid of times. With this, the program returns the reduced density matrix of the open quantum system at all (or some) moments specified by that grid of times. This overall calculation can be divided into two stages: the setup of the Feynman integral, and the actual calculation of the Feynman integral for time-propagation of the density matrix. When this program calculates this propagation on a multi-core CPU, it is this propagation that is usually the rate limiting step of the calculation, but when it is calculated on a GPU, the propagation is calculated so quickly that the setup of the Feynman integal actually becomes the rate limiting step for most cases tested so far. The overhead of transfrring information from the CPU to the GPU and back seems to have negligible effect on the overall runtime of the program. When the required information cannot fit on the GPU, the user can choose to run the entire program on a CPU.

id: 1205.6878
title: Photonic families of non-Gaussian entangled states and entanglement criteria for continuous-variable systems
authors: Ryo Namiki
comments: RevTeX 7 pages, 3 figures, Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062307 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6878
abstract: We consider two classes of non-Gaussian entangled states generated from the product of number states with the action of the beamsplitter or the two-mode squeezer. It is shown that, for many of these states, the covariance matrix is compatible with the covariance matrix of separable Gaussian states and their separability cannot be verified by the measurements of the first and second moments of canonical variables. We identify a couple of continuous-variable entanglement criteria with higher order moments to verify these non-Gaussian entanglement.

id: 1205.6894
title: A violation of the uncertainty principle implies a violation of the second law of thermodynamics
authors: Esther H?nggi, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 8 pages, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6894
abstract: Uncertainty relations state that there exist certain incompatible measurements, to which the outcomes cannot be simultaneously predicted. While the exact incompatibility of quantum measurements dictated by such uncertainty relations can be inferred from the mathematical formalism of quantum theory, the question remains whether there is any more fundamental reason for the uncertainty relations to have this exact form. What, if any, would be the operational consequences if we were able to go beyond any of these uncertainty relations? We give a strong argument that justifies uncertainty relations in quantum theory by showing that violating them implies that it is also possible to violate the second law of thermodynamics. More precisely, we show that violating the uncertainty relations in quantum mechanics leads to a thermodynamic cycle with positive net work gain, which is very unlikely to exist in nature.

id: 1205.6898
title: Quantum theory as a relevant framework for the statement of probabilistic and many-valued logic
authors: E. D. Vol
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6898
abstract: Based on ideas of quantum theory of open systems we propose the consistent approach to the formulation of logic of plausible propositions. To this end we associate with every plausible proposition diagonal matrix of its likelihood and examine it as density matrix of relevant quantum system. We are showing that all logical connectives between plausible propositions can be represented as special positive valued transformations of these matrices. We demonstrate also the above transformations can be realized in relevant composite quantum systems by quantum engineering methods. The approach proposed allows one not only to reproduce and generalize results of well-known logical systems (Boolean, Lukasiewicz and so on) but also to classify and analyze from unified point of view various actual problems in psychophysics and social sciences.

id: 1205.6901
title: Sign of the Casimir-Polder interaction between atoms and oil-water interfaces: Subtle dependence on dielectric properties
authors: Mathias Bostr?m, Simen ?. Ellingsen, Iver Brevik, Drew F. Parsons, Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 064501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6901
abstract: We demonstrate that Casimir-Polder energies between noble gas atoms (dissolved in water) and oil-water interfaces are highly surface specific. Both repulsion (e.g. hexane) and attraction (e.g. glycerine and cyclodecane) is found with different oils. For several intermediate oils (e.g. hexadecane, decane, and cyclohexane) both attraction and repulsion can be found in the same system. Near these oil-water interfaces the interaction is repulsive in the non-retarded limit and turns attractive at larger distances as retardation becomes important. These highly surface specific interactions may have a role to play in biological systems where the surface may be more or less accessible to dissolved atoms.

id: 1205.6933
title: Virtual noiseless amplification and Gaussian post-selection in continuous-variable quantum key distribution
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 060302(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6933
abstract: The noiseless amplification or attenuation are two heralded filtering operations that enable respectively to increase or decrease the mean field of any quantum state of light with no added noise, at the cost of a small success probability. We show that inserting such noiseless operations in a transmission line improves the performance of continuous-variable quantum key distribution over this line. Remarkably, these noiseless operations do not need to be physically implemented but can simply be simulated in the data post-processing stage. Hence, virtual noiseless amplification or attenuation amounts to perform a Gaussian post-selection, which enhances the secure range or tolerable excess noise while keeping the benefits of Gaussian security proofs.

id: 1205.6938
title: Robust Dynamical Decoupling for Arbitrary Quantum States of a Single NV Center in Diamond
authors: J. H. Shim, I. Niemeyer, J. Zhang, D. Suter
comments: EPL Accepted
journal: Europhys. Lett. 99, 40004 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6938
abstract: Dynamical decoupling is a powerful technique for extending the coherence time (T$_2$) of qubits. We apply this technique to the electron spin qubit of a single nitrogen-vacancy center in type IIa diamond. In a crystal with natural abundance of $^{13}$C nuclear spins, we extend the decoherence time up to 2.2 ms. This is close to the T$_1$ value of this NV center (4 ms). Since dynamical decoupling must perform well for arbitrary initial conditions, we measured the dependence on the initial state and compared the performance of different sequences with respect to initial state dependence and robustness to experimental imperfections.

id: 1205.6952
title: Non-Markovian waiting time distribution
authors: Kimmo Luoma, Kari H?rk?nen, Sabrina Maniscalco, Kalle-Antti Suominen, Jyrki Piilo
comments: journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022102 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6952
abstract: Simulation methods based on stochastic realizations of state vector evolutions are commonly used tools to solve open quantum system dynamics, both in the Markovian and non-Markovian regime. Here, we address the question of waiting time distribution (WTD) of quantum jumps for non-Markovian systems. We generalize Markovian quantum trajectory methods in the sense of deriving an exact analytical WTD for non-Markovian quantum dynamics and show explicitly how to construct this distribution for certain commonly used quantum optical systems.

id: 1205.6972
title: Temperature gradient driven lasing and stimulated cooling
authors: K. Sandner, H. Ritsch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6972
abstract: A laser can be understood as thermodynamic engine converting heat to a coherent single mode field close to Carnot efficiency. From this perspective spectral shaping of the excitation light generates a higher effective temperature on the pump than on the gain transition. Here, using a toy model of a quantum well structure with two suitably designed tunnel-coupled wells kept at different temperature, we study a laser operated on an actual spatial temperature gradient between pump and gain region. We predict gain and narrow band laser emission for a sufficient temperature gradient and resonator quality. Lasing appears concurrent with amplified heat flow and points to a new form of stimulated solid state cooling. Such a mechanism could raise the operating temperature limit of quantum cascade lasers by substituting phonon emission driven injection, which generates intrinsic heat, by an extended model with phonon absorption steps.

id: 1205.6985
title: Spin squeezing and Schr?dinger cat generation in atomic samples with Rydberg blockade
authors: Tom¨¢? Opatrn?, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6985
abstract: A scheme is proposed to prepare squeezed states and Schr\"{o}dinger cat-like states of the collective spin degrees of freedom associated with a pair of ground states in an atomic ensemble. The scheme uses an effective Jaynes-Cummings interaction which can be provided by excitation of the atoms to Rydberg states and an effective J_x interaction implemented by a resonant Raman coupling between the atomic ground states. Both dynamical evolution with a constant Hamiltonian and with adiabatic variation of the two interaction terms are studied. We show that by the application of further resonant laser fields, we can suppress non-adiabatic transfer under the time varying Hamiltonian and significantly speed up the evolution towards a maximally squeezed, J_z=0, collective spin state.

id: 1205.6999
title: Dynamics of one-dimensional tight-binding models with arbitrary time-dependent external homogeneous fields
authors: W. H. Hu, L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Quant. Inf. Proc. 12, 3569 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6999
abstract: The exact propagators of two one-dimensional systems with time-dependent external fields are presented by following the path-integral method. It is shown that the Bloch acceleration theorem can be generalized to the impulse-momentum theorem in quantum version. We demonstrate that an evolved Gaussian wave packet always keeps its shape in an arbitrary time-dependent homogeneous driven field. Moreover, that stopping and accelerating of a wave packet can be achieved by the pulsed field in a diabatic way.

id: 1205.7008
title: Continuous mode cooling and phonon routers for phononic quantum networks
authors: S. J. M. Habraken, K. Stannigel, M. D. Lukin, P. Zoller, P. Rabl
comments: 33 pages, 8 figures. Final version, a few minor changes and updated references
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 115004 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.7008
abstract: We study the implementation of quantum state transfer protocols in phonon networks, where in analogy to optical networks, quantum information is transmitted through propagating phonons in extended mechanical resonator arrays or phonon waveguides. We describe how the problem of a non-vanishing thermal occupation of the phononic quantum channel can be overcome by implementing optomechanical multi- and continuous mode cooling schemes to create a 'cold' frequency window for transmitting quantum states. In addition, we discuss the implementation of phonon circulators and switchable phonon routers, which rely on strong coherent optomechanical interactions only, and do not require strong magnetic fields or specific materials. Both techniques can be applied and adapted to various physical implementations, where phonons coupled to spin or charge based qubits are used for on-chip networking applications.

id: 1205.7035
title: Position Estimation of a Parametrically Driven Optomechanical System
authors: Alex Szorkovszky, Andrew C. Doherty, Glen I. Harris, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 095026 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.7035
abstract: We study the position estimation of a mechanical oscillator undergoing both detuned parametric amplification and continuous quantum measurement. This model, which can be utilised to produce squeezed states, is applied to a general optoelectromechanical system. Using a stochastic master equation formalism, we derive general formulae for the reduction in position uncertainty of one quadrature of motion. The filter for extracting the optimal position estimate from the measurement record is derived. We also find that since this scheme does not work far into the back-action dominated regime, implementing resolved-sideband cooling improves the squeezing only marginally.

id: 1205.7036
title: Upper Bounds on the Rate of Low Density Stabilizer Codes for the Quantum Erasure Channel
authors: Nicolas Delfosse, Gilles Z¨¦mor
comments: 32 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.7036
abstract: Using combinatorial arguments, we determine an upper bound on achievable rates of stabilizer codes used over the quantum erasure channel. This allows us to recover the no-cloning bound on the capacity of the quantum erasure channel, R is below 1-2p, for stabilizer codes: we also derive an improved upper bound of the form : R is below 1-2p-D(p) with a function D(p) that stays positive for 0 < p < 1/2 and for any family of stabilizer codes whose generators have weights bounded from above by a constant - low density stabilizer codes. We obtain an application to percolation theory for a family of self-dual tilings of the hyperbolic plane. We associate a family of low density stabilizer codes with appropriate finite quotients of these tilings. We then relate the probability of percolation to the probability of a decoding error for these codes on the quantum erasure channel. The application of our upper bound on achievable rates of low density stabilizer codes gives rise to an upper bound on the critical probability for these tilings.

id: 1205.0081
title: Optical dipole force on ladder-like three-level atomic systems driven by chirped few-cycle-pulse laser fields
authors: Parvendra Kumar, Amarendra K. Sarma
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 86, 053414 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0081
abstract: We report a study on the optical dipole force in a ladder like three level atomic systems in the context of coherent population transfer with the chirped few-cycle-pulse laser fields. The phenomenon of coherent population transfer is investigated by numerically solving the appropriate density matrix equations beyond the rotating wave approximation. On the other hand, optical dipole force is calculated by numerically solving the force equation and density matrix equations self-consistently. By analysing the centre-of-mass motion, it is shown that the optical dipole force with chirped pulses may be used for focusing and defocusing of atoms in an atomic beam similar to the near or non-resonant optical dipole force. Moreover, the robustness of the population transfer against the variation of the pulse parameters and the effect of the variation of the Rabi frequencies and the chirp rates on the optical dipole force are also investigated. The proposed scheme may open new perspectives in the focusing and de-focusing of atoms and molecules in an atomic beam, since this scheme mitigates the demand for the generation of transform-limited pulse laser fields at arbitrary frequencies.

id: 1205.0099
title: Bayesian approach to electron correlation in density functional theory
authors: R. Tsekov, G.N. Vayssilov
comments: The paper is dedicated to the 70th anniversary of Werner Freyland
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 524 (2012) 822-825
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0099
abstract: In the present communication the Bayesian conditional probability approach is applied to the wave function of a many-electron system that results in appearance of a quantum vector potential in the DFT Schrodinger equation due to electron correlation, apart from the correlation energy term. Mathematically, the effect of this vector potential is equivalent to a magnetic field that corresponds in particular to a conservative irrotational one if it is considered in connection with the correlation potential. An analysis of the effect of the correlation momentum on the electronic transitions suggested that the electron correlation increases the transition probability.

id: 1205.0109
title: Entanglement Spectra of Heisenberg Ladders of higher Spin
authors: John Schliemann, Andreas M. L?uchli
comments: 14 pages, figure 2 and references added, pertaining adjustments. Version as published
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2012) P11021
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0109
abstract: We study the entanglement spectrum of Heisenberg spin ladders of arbitrary spin length S in the perturbative regime of strong rung coupling. For isotropic spin coupling the the entanglement spectrum is, within first order perturbation theory, always proportional to the energy spectrum of the single chain with a proportionality factor being also independent of S. A more complicated situation arises for anisotropic ladders of higher spin S>=1 since here even the unperturbed ground state has a nontrivial entanglement spectrum. Finally we discuss related issues in dimerized spin chains.

id: 1205.0118
title: Hawking radiation from a collapsing dust sphere and its back reaction at the event horizon -Weak value approach-
authors: Yuki Kanai, Akio Hosoya
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0118
abstract: To see the back reaction of the Hawking radiation in a dynamical spacetime of the spherical gravitational collapse, we explicitly calculate the weak value of the energy-momentum tensor of the massless scalar field. The background geometry of a collapsing dust sphere is specified by using the Painleve-Gullstrand coordinates, in which the time coordinate coincides with the proper time of a free-falling observer and the metric tensor is regular at the event horizon. The result is that in the remote future the weak value diverges at the event horizon. We argue that since the semi-classical approximation of the Einstein equation in the sense of the weak value breaks down there, the future geometry of the spacetime cannot be the Schwarzschild geometry.

id: 1205.0291
title: Quantum Flux and Reverse Engineering of Quantum Wavefunctions
authors: Douglas J. Mason, Mario F. Borunda, Eric J. Heller
comments: Accepted to EPL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0291
abstract: An interpretation of the probability flux is given, based on a derivation of its eigenstates and relating them to coherent state projections on a quantum wavefunction. An extended definition of the flux operator is obtained using coherent states. We present a "processed Husimi" representation, which makes decisions using many Husimi projections at each location. The processed Husimi representation reverse engineers or deconstructs the wavefunction, yielding the underlying classical ray structure. Our approach makes possible interpreting the dynamics of systems where the probability flux is uniformly zero or strongly misleading. The new technique is demonstrated by the calculation of particle flow maps of the classical dynamics underlying a quantum wavefunction.

id: 1205.0296
title: Dephasing by a Continuous-Time Random Walk Process
authors: Daniel M Packwood, Yoshitaka Tanimura
comments: 25 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0296
abstract: Stochastic treatments of magnetic resonance spectroscopy and optical spectroscopy require evaluations of functions like <exp(i int_0^t Q(s)ds)>, where t is time, Q(s) is the value of a stochastic process at time s, and the angular brackets denote ensemble averaging. This paper gives an exact evaluation of these functions for the case where Q is a continuous-time random walk process. The continuous time random walk describes an environment that undergoes slow, step-like changes in time. It also has a well-defined Gaussian limit, and so allows for non-Gaussian and Gaussian stochastic dynamics to be studied within a single framework. We apply the results to extract qubit-lattice interaction parameters from dephasing data of P-doped Si semiconductors (data collected elsewhere), and to calculate the two-dimensional spectrum of a three level harmonic oscillator undergoing random frequency modulations.

id: 1205.0316
title: Enhancement of Blackbody Friction due to the Finite Lifetime of Atomic Levels
authors: G. Lach, M. DeKieviet, U. D. Jentschura
comments: 4 pages; RevTeX
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 108 (2012) 043005
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0316
abstract: The thermal friction force acting on an atom moving relative to a thermal photon bath is known to be proportional to an integral over the imaginary part of the frequency-dependent atomic (dipole) polarizability. Using a numerical approach, we find that blackbody friction on atoms either in dilute environments or in hot ovens is larger than previously thought by orders of magnitude. This enhancement is due to far off-resonant driving of transitions by low-frequency thermal radiation. At typical temperatures, the blackbody radiation maximum lies far below the atomic transition wavelengths. Surprisingly, due to the finite lifetime of atomic levels, which gives rise to Lorentzian line profiles, far off-resonant excitation leads to the dominant contribution to the blackbody friction.

id: 1205.0322
title: Probing the existence and dynamics of Majorana fermion via transport through a quantum dot
authors: Yunshan Cao, Peiyue Wang, Gang Xiong, Xin-Qi Li
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 115311 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0322
abstract: We consider an experimentally feasible setup to demonstrate the existence and coherent dynamics of Majorana fermion. The transport setup consists of a quantum dot and a tunnel-coupled semiconductor nanowire which is anticipated to generate Majorana excitations under some conditions. For transport under finite bias voltage, we find that a subtraction of the source and drain currents can expose the essential feature of the Majorana fermion, including the zero-energy nature by gate-voltage modulating the dot level. Moreover, coherent oscillating dynamics of the Majorana fermion between the nanowire and the quantum dot is reflected in the shot noise via a spectral dip together with a pronounced zero-frequency noise enhancement effect. Important parameters, e.g. for the Majorana's mutual interaction and its coupling to the quantum dot, can be extracted out in experiment using the derived analytic results.

id: 1205.0365
title: Switching off the magnetic exchange coupling by quantum resonances
authors: Ching-Hao Chang, Tzay-Ming Hong
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0365
abstract: We clarify the role of quantum-well states in magnetic trilayer systems from majority carrier in the ferromagnetic and all carriers in the antiferromagnetic configurations. In addition to numerical and analytic calculations, heuristic pictures are provided to explain effects of a capping layer and side-layer modulation in recent experiments. This immediately offers answers to two unexplained subtle findings in experiments and band-structure calculations, individually. Furthermore, it allows a more flexible tuning of or even turning off the interlayer exchange coupling.

id: 1205.0367
title: Imaging fractional incompressible stripes in integer quantum Hall systems
authors: Nicola Paradiso, Stefan Heun, Stefano Roddaro, Lucia Sorba, Fabio Beltram, Giorgio Biasiol, L. N. Pfeiffer, K. W. West
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 108, 246801 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0367
abstract: Transport experiments provide conflicting evidence on the possible existence of fractional order within integer quantum Hall systems. In fact integer edge states sometimes behave as monolithic objects with no inner structure, while other experiments clearly highlight the role of fractional substructures. Recently developed low-temperature scanning probe techniques offer today an opportunity for a deeper-than-ever investigation of spatial features of such edge systems. Here we use scanning gate microscopy and demonstrate that fractional features were unambiguously observed in every integer quantum Hall constriction studied. We present also an experimental estimate of the width of the fractional incompressible stripes corresponding to filling factors 1/3, 2/5, 3/5, and 2/3. Our results compare well with predictions of the edge-reconstruction theory.

id: 1205.0368
title: A time-splitting spectral scheme for the Maxwell-Dirac system
authors: Zhongyi Huang, Shi Jin, Peter Markowich, Christof Sparber, Chunxiong Zheng
comments: 29 pages, 119 figures
journal: J. Comput. Phys, 208 (2): 761-789, 2005
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0368
abstract: We present a time-splitting spectral scheme for the Maxwell-Dirac system and similar time-splitting methods for the corresponding asymptotic problems in the semi-classical and the non-relativistic regimes. The scheme for the Maxwell-Dirac system conserves the Lorentz gauge condition, is unconditionally stable and highly efficient as our numerical examples show. In particular we focus in our examples on the creation of positronic modes in the semi-classical regime and on the electron-positron interaction in the non-relativistic regime. Furthermore, in the non-relativistic regime, our numerical method exhibits uniform convergence in the small parameter $\dt$, which is the ratio of the characteristic speed and the speed of light.

id: 1205.0393
title: A Bloch decomposition based split-step pseudo spectral method for quantum dynamics with periodic potentials
authors: Zhongyi Huang, Shi Jin, Peter Markowich, Christof Sparber
comments: 26 pages, 50 figures
journal: SIAM J Sci. Comput., 29 (2): 515-538, 2007
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0393
abstract: We present a new numerical method for accurate computations of solutions to (linear) one dimensional Schr\"odinger equations with periodic potentials. This is a prominent model in solid state physics where we also allow for perturbations by non-periodic potentials describing external electric fields. Our approach is based on the classical Bloch decomposition method which allows to diagonalize the periodic part of the Hamiltonian operator. Hence, the dominant effects from dispersion and periodic lattice potential are computed together, while the non-periodic potential acts only as a perturbation. Because the split-step communicator error between the periodic and non-periodic parts is relatively small, the step size can be chosen substantially larger than for the traditional splitting of the dispersion and potential operators. Indeed it is shown by the given examples, that our method is unconditionally stable and more efficient than the traditional split-step pseudo spectral schemes. To this end a particular focus is on the semiclassical regime, where the new algorithm naturally incorporates the adiabatic splitting of slow and fast degrees of freedom.

id: 1205.0457
title: Bloch-sphere approach to correlated noise in coupled qubits
authors: H?kon Brox, Joakim Bergli, Yuri Galperin
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0457
abstract: By use of a generalized Bloch vector construction, we study the decoherence of a system composed of two interacting qubits in a general noisy environment. In particular, we investigate the effects of correlations in the noise acting on distinct qubits. Our treatment of the two-qubit system by use of the generalized Bloch vector leads to tractable analytic equations for the dynamics of the 4-level Bloch vector and allows for the application of geometrical concepts from the well known 2-level Bloch sphere. We find that in the presence of correlated or anticorrelated noise, the rate of decoherence is very sensitive to the initial two-qubit state, as well as to the symmetry of the Hamiltonian. In the absence of symmetry in the Hamiltonian, correlations only weakly impact the decoherence rate.

id: 1205.0460
title: The inverse scattering problem at fixed energy based on the Marchenko equation for an auxiliary Sturm-Liouville operator
authors: Tamas Palmai, Barnabas Apagyi
comments: 6 pages, 8 eps figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 045303
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0460
abstract: A new approach is proposed to the solution of the quantum mechanical inverse scattering problem at fixed energy. The method relates the fixed energy phase shifts to those arising in an auxiliary Sturm-Liouville problem via the interpolation theory of the Weyl-Titchmarsh m-function. Then a Marchenko equation is solved to obtain the potential.

id: 1205.0496
title: Optical Abelian Lattice Gauge Theories
authors: L. Tagliacozzo, A. Celi, A. Zamora, M. Lewenstein
comments: v2 27 pages, 11 figures, extended discussion of the experimental set-up and of observables' measurement, similar to published version
journal: Annals of Physics (2013), pp. 160-191
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0496
abstract: We discuss a general framework for the realization of a family of abelian lattice gauge theories, i.e., link models or gauge magnets, in optical lattices. We analyze the properties of these models that make them suitable to quantum simulations. Within this class, we study in detail the phases of a U(1)-invariant lattice gauge theory in 2+1 dimensions originally proposed by Orland. By using exact diagonalization, we extract the low-energy states for small lattices, up to 4x4. We confirm that the model has two phases, with the confined entangled one characterized by strings wrapping around the whole lattice. We explain how to study larger lattices by using either tensor network techniques or digital quantum simulations with Rydberg atoms loaded in optical lattices where we discuss in detail a protocol for the preparation of the ground state. We also comment on the relation between standard compact U(1) LGT and the model considered.

id: 1205.0512
title: Solvable models of resonances and decays
authors: Pavel Exner
comments: Written for proceedings of the conference "Mathematical Physics, Spectral Theory and Stochastic Analysis" (Goslar 2011)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0512
abstract: Resonance and decay phenomena are ubiquitous in the quantum world. To understand them in their complexity it is useful to study solvable models in a wide sense, that is, systems which can be treated by analytical means. The present review offers a survey of such models starting the classical Friedrichs result and carrying further to recent developments in the theory of quantum graphs. Our attention concentrates on dynamical mechanism underlying resonance effects and at time evolution of the related unstable systems.

id: 1205.0519
title: Quantum Interferometry and Correlated Two-Electron Wave-Packet Observation in Helium
authors: Christian Ott, Andreas Kaldun, Philipp Raith, Kristina Meyer, Martin Laux, Yizhu Zhang, Steffen Hagstotz, Thomas Ding, Robert Heck, Thomas Pfeifer
comments: in peer review (first reports obtained, result: scientifically sound, high quality, conclusions are robust and reliable)
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0519
abstract: The concerted motion of two or more bound electrons governs atomic and molecular non-equilibrium processes and chemical reactions. It is thus a long-standing scientific dream to measure the dynamics of two bound correlated electrons in the quantum regime. Quantum wave packets were previously observed for single-active electrons on their natural attosecond timescales. However, at least two active electrons and a nucleus are required to address the quantum three-body problem. This situation is realized in the helium atom, but direct time-resolved observation of two-electron wave-packet motion remained an unaccomplished challenge. Here, we measure a 1.2-femtosecond quantum beating among low-lying doubly-excited states in helium to evidence a correlated two-electron wave packet. Our experimental method combines attosecond transient-absorption spectroscopy at unprecedented high spectral resolution (20 meV near 60 eV) with an intensity-tuneable visible laser field to couple the quantum states from the perturbative to the strong-coupling regime. This multi-dimensional transient-coupling scheme reveals an inversion of the characteristic Fano line shapes for a range of doubly-excited states. Employing Fano-type autoionization as a natural quantum interferometer, a dynamical phase shift by laser coupling to the N=2 continuum is postulated and experimentally quantified. This phase maps a transition from effectively single-active-electron to two-electron dynamics as the electron-electron interaction increases in lower-lying quantum states. In the future, such experiments will provide benchmark data for testing dynamical few-body quantum theory. They will boost our understanding of chemically and biologically important metastable electronic transition states and their dynamics on attosecond time scales.

id: 1205.0543
title: Gaussian Beam Methods for the Dirac Equation in the Semi-classical Regime
authors: Hao Wu, Zhongyi Huang, Shi Jin, Dongsheng Yin
comments: 15 pages, 27 figures
journal: 
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0543
abstract: The Dirac equation is an important model in relativistic quantum mechanics. In the semi-classical regime $\epsilon\ll1$, even a spatially spectrally accurate time splitting method \cite{HuJi:05} requires the mesh size to be $O(\epsilon)$, which makes the direct simulation extremely expensive. In this paper, we present the Gaussian beam method for the Dirac equation. With the help of an eigenvalue decomposition, the Gaussian beams can be independently evolved along each eigenspace and summed to construct an approximate solution of the Dirac equation. Moreover, the proposed Eulerian Gaussian beam keeps the advantages of constructing the Hessian matrices by simply using level set functions' derivatives. Finally, several numerical examples show the efficiency and accuracy of the method.

id: 1205.0641
title: Extending quantum operations
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Maria A. Jivulescu, David Reeb, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 26 pages; v2: minor changes, published version; v3: one reference and note added beyond published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 102208 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0641
abstract: For a given set of input-output pairs of quantum states or observables, we ask the question whether there exists a physically implementable transformation that maps each of the inputs to the corresponding output. The physical maps on quantum states are trace-preserving completely positive maps, but we also consider variants of these requirements. We generalize the definition of complete positivity to linear maps defined on arbitrary subspaces, then formulate this notion as a semidefinite program, and relate it by duality to approximative extensions of this map. This gives a characterization of the maps which can be approximated arbitrarily well as the restriction of a map that is completely positive on the whole algebra, also yielding the familiar extension theorems on operator spaces. For quantum channel extensions and extensions by probabilistic operations we obtain semidefinite characterizations, and we also elucidate the special case of Abelian in- or outputs. Finally, revisiting a theorem by Alberti and Uhlmann, we provide simpler and more widely applicable conditions for certain extension problems on qubits, and by using a semidefinite programming formulation we exhibit counterexamples to seemingly reasonable but false generalizations of the Alberti-Uhlmann theorem.

id: 1205.0642
title: Breaking the n^(log n) Barrier for Solvable-Group Isomorphism
authors: David Rosenbaum
comments: 24 pages for the main body, 29 pages of appendices and references, 2 figures. v1 shows the algorithm for nilpotent groups. v2 makes a minor improvement. v3 generalizes to solvable groups. v4 contains additional discussions, clarifications and new side results. v5 makes the construction of the canonical forms explicit (expanding on a remark in v4). v6 makes various minor corrections. The portion of this paper on p-groups has been replaced by arXiv:1312.1755
journal: 
subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0642
abstract: We consider the group isomorphism problem: given two finite groups G and H specified by their multiplication tables, decide if G and H are isomorphic. The n^(log n) barrier for group isomorphism has withstood all attacks --- even for the special cases of p-groups and solvable groups --- ever since the n^(log n + O(1)) generator-enumeration algorithm. In this work, we present the first significant improvement over n^(log n) by showing that group isomorphism is n^((1 / 2) log_p n + O(1)) Turing reducible to composition-series isomorphism where p is the smallest prime dividing the order of the group. Combining our reduction with an n^(O(p / log p)) algorithm for p-group composition-series isomorphism, we obtain an n^((1 / 2) log n + O(1)) algorithm for p-group isomorphism. We then generalize our techniques from p-groups using Sylow bases to derive an n^((1 / 2) log n + O(log n / log log n)) algorithm for solvable-group isomorphism. Finally, we relate group isomorphism to the collision problem which allows us replace the 1 / 2 in the exponents with 1 / 4 using randomized algorithms and 1 / 6 using quantum algorithms.

id: 1205.0645
title: Step-Up and Step-Down Operators of a two-term Molecular Potential via Nikiforov-Uvarov Method
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 10 pages
journal: Few-Body Syst 55, 265 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0645
abstract: The creation and annihilation operators of a two-term diatomic molecular potential are studied and it is observed that they satisfy the commutation relations of a SU(1,1) algebra. To study the Lie algebraic realization of the present potential, the normalized eigenfunctions and eigenvalues are computed by using the Nikiforov-Uvarov method.

id: 1205.0667
title: Informative priors and the analogy between quantum and classical heat engines
authors: George Thomas, Preety Aneja, Ramandeep S. Johal
comments: Revtex 6 pages, Submitted for Proceedings of Frontiers of Quantum and Mesoscopic Thermodynamics (FQMT-2011) Conference
journal: Phys. Scr. T151 (2012) 014031, Proceedings of Frontiers of Quantum and Mesoscopic Thermodynamics-2011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0667
abstract: When incomplete information about the control parameters is quantified as a prior distribution, a subtle connection emerges between quantum heat engines and their classical analogs. We study the quantum model where the uncertain parameters are the intrinsic energy scales and compare with the classical models where the intermediate temperature is the uncertain parameter. The prior distribution quantifying the incomplete information has the form $\pi(x)\propto 1/x$ in both the quantum and the classical models. The expected efficiency calculated in near-equilibrium limit approaches the value of one third of Carnot efficiency.

id: 1205.0675
title: Motional Averaging in a Superconducting Qubit
authors: Jian Li, M. P. Silveri, K. S. Kumar, J.-M. Pirkkalainen, A. Veps?l?inen, W. C. Chien, J. Tuorila, M. A. Sillanp??, P. J. Hakonen, E. V. Thuneberg, G. S. Paraoanu
comments: Main text (5 pages and 4 figures) and Supplementary Information (11 pages and 5 figures)
journal: Nat. Commun. 4, 1420 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0675
abstract: Superconducting circuits with Josephson junctions are promising candidates for developing future quantum technologies. Of particular interest is to use these circuits to study effects that typically occur in complex condensed-matter systems. Here, we employ a superconducting quantum bit (qubit),a transmon, to carry out an analog simulation of motional averaging, a phenomenon initially observed in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. To realize this effect, the flux bias of the transmon is modulated by a controllable pseudo-random telegraph noise, resulting in stochastic jumping of the energy separation between two discrete values. When the jumping is faster than a dynamical threshold set by the frequency displacement of the levels, the two separated spectral lines merge into a single narrow-width, motional-averaged line. With sinusoidal modulation a complex pattern of additional sidebands is observed. We demonstrate experimentally that the modulated system remains quantum coherent, with modified transition frequencies, Rabi couplings, and dephasing rates. These results represent the first steps towards more advanced quantum simulations using artificial atoms.

id: 1205.0690
title: Phase shift in an atom interferometer induced by the additional laser lines of a Raman laser generated by modulation
authors: Olivier Carraz, Ren¨¦e Charri¨¨re, Malo Cadoret, Nassim Zahzam, Yannick Bidel, Alexandre Bresson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0690
abstract: The use of Raman laser generated by modulation for light-pulse atom interferometer allows to have a laser system more compact and robust. However, the additional laser frequencies generated can perturb the atom interferometer. In this article, we present a precise calculation of the phase shift induced by the additional laser frequencies. The model is validated by comparison with experimental measurements on an atom gravimeter. The uncertainty of the phase shift determination limits the accuracy of our compact gravimeter at 8.10^-8 m/s^2. We show that it is possible to reduce considerably this inaccuracy with a better control of experimental parameters or with particular interferometer configurations.

id: 1205.0696
title: Multiphoton transitions in Josephson-junction qubits (Review Article)
authors: S.N. Shevchenko, A.N. Omelyanchouk, E. Il'ichev
comments: 20 pages, 15 figures
journal: Low Temp. Phys. 38, 283 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0696
abstract: Two basic physical models, a two-level system and a harmonic oscillator, are realized on the mesoscopic scale as coupled qubit and resonator. The realistic system includes moreover the electronics for controlling the distance between the qubit energy levels and their populations and to read out the resonator's state, as well as the unavoidable dissipative environment. Such rich system is interesting both for the study of fundamental quantum phenomena on the mesoscopic scale and as a promising system for future electronic devices. We present recent results for the driven superconducting qubit-resonator system, where the resonator can be realized as an LC circuit or a nanomechanical resonator. Most of the results can be described by the semiclassical theory, where a qubit is treated as a quantum two-level system coupled to the classical driving field and the classical resonator. Application of this theory allows to describe many phenomena for the single and two coupled superconducting qubits, among which are the following: the equilibrium-state and weak-driving spectroscopy, Sisyphus damping and amplification, Landau-Zener-St\"uckelberg interferometry, the multiphoton transitions of both direct and ladder- type character, and creation of the inverse population for lasing.

id: 1205.0698
title: Record statistics in random vectors and quantum chaos
authors: Shashi C. L. Srivastava, Arul Lakshminarayan, Sudhir R. Jain
comments: figures redrawn, discussion added
journal: S. C. L. Srivastava, A. Lakshminarayan, and S. R. Jain, EPL (Europhysics Letters) 101, 10003 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0698
abstract: The record statistics of complex random states are analytically calculated, and shown that the probability of a record intensity is a Bernoulli process. The correlation due to normalization leads to a probability distribution of the records that is non-universal but tends to the Gumbel distribution asymptotically. The quantum standard map is used to study these statistics for the effect of correlations apart from normalization. It is seen that in the mixed phase space regime the number of intensity records is a power law in the dimensionality of the state as opposed to the logarithmic growth for random states.

id: 1205.0712
title: Symmetries and the compatibility condition for the new translational shape invariant potentials
authors: Arturo Ramos
comments: 15 pages, no figures, revised version to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376 (2012) 3499-3503
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0712
abstract: In this letter we study a class of symmetries of the new translational extended shape invariant potentials. It is proved that a generalization of a compatibility condition introduced in a previous article is equivalent to the usual shape invariance condition. We focus on the recent examples of Odake and Sasaki (infinitely many polynomial, continuous $l$ and multi-index rational extensions). As a byproduct, we obtain new relations, to the best of our knowledge, for Laguerre, Jacobi polynomials and (confluent) hypergeometric functions.

id: 1205.0717
title: Many-particle Systems in One Dimension in the Harmonic Approximation
authors: J. R. Armstrong, N. T. Zinner, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen
comments: 7+epsilon pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: Physica Scripta T151, 014061 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0717
abstract: We consider energetics and structural properties of a many particle system in one dimension with pairwise contact interactions confined in a parabolic external potential. To render the problem analytically solvable, we use the harmonic approximation scheme at the level of the Hamiltonian. We investigate the scaling with particle number of the ground state energies for systems consisting of identical bosons or fermions. We then proceed to focus on bosonic systems and make a detailed comparison to known exact results in the absence of the parabolic external trap for three-body systems. We also consider the thermodynamics of the harmonic model which turns out to be similar for bosons and fermions due to the lack of degeneracy in one dimension.

id: 1205.0872
title: Measurement of the gradient of the Casimir force between a nonmagnetic sphere and a magnetic plate
authors: A. A. Banishev, C.-C. Chang, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.85, 195422-(1-7) (2012)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0872
abstract: We measured the gradient of the Casimir force between an Au sphere and a plate made of ferromagnetic metal (Ni). It is demonstrated that the magnetic properties influence the force magnitude. This opens prospective opportunities for the control of the Casimir force in nanotechnology and for obtaining Casimir repulsion by using ferromagnetic dielectrics.

id: 1205.0883
title: Functional quantum biology in photosynthesis and magnetoreception
authors: Neill Lambert, Yueh-Nan Chen, Yuan-Chung Cheng, Che-Ming Li, Guang-Yin Chen, Franco Nori
comments: 31 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0883
abstract: Is there a functional role for quantum mechanics or coherent quantum effects in biological processes? While this question is as old as quantum theory, only recently have measurements on biological systems on ultra-fast time-scales shed light on a possible answer. In this review we give an overview of the two main candidates for biological systems which may harness such functional quantum effects: photosynthesis and magnetoreception. We discuss some of the latest evidence both for and against room temperature quantum coherence, and consider whether there is truly a functional role for coherence in these biological mechanisms. Finally, we give a brief overview of some more speculative examples of functional quantum biology including the sense of smell, long-range quantum tunneling in proteins, biological photoreceptors, and the flow of ions across a cell membrane.

id: 1205.0926
title: High temperature behavior of a deformed Fermi gas obeying interpolating statistics
authors: Abdullah Algin, Mustafa Senay
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review E 85, 041123 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0926
abstract: An outstanding idea originally introduced by Greenberg is to investigate whether there is equivalence between intermediate statistics, which may be different from anyonic statistics, and q-deformed particle algebra. Also, a model to be studied for addressing such an idea could possibly provide us some new consequences about the interactions of particles as well as their internal structures. Motivated mainly by this idea, in this work, we consider a q-deformed Fermi gas model whose statistical properties enable effectively us to study interpolating statistics. Starting with a generalized Fermi-Dirac distribution function, we derive several thermostatistical functions of a gas of these deformed fermions in the thermodynamical limit. We study the high temperature behavior of the system by analyzing the effects of q-deformation on the most important thermostatistical characteristics of the system such as the entropy, specific heat, and equation of state. It is shown that such a deformed fermion model in two and three spatial dimensions exhibits the interpolating statistics in a specific interval of the model deformation parameter 0 < q < 1. In particular, for two and three spatial dimensions, it is found from the behavior of the third virial coefficient of the model that the deformation parameter q interpolates completely between attractive and repulsive systems, including the free boson and fermion cases. From the results obtained in this work, we conclude that such a model could provide much physical insight into some interacting theories of fermions, and could be useful to further study the particle systems with intermediate statistics.

id: 1205.0937
title: One-dimensional hydrogen atom with minimal length uncertainty and maximal momentum
authors: Pouria Pedram
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Europhys. Lett. 101 (2013) 30005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0937
abstract: We present exact energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the one-dimensional hydrogen atom in the framework of the Generalized (Gravitational) Uncertainty Principle (GUP). This form of GUP is consistent with various theories of quantum gravity such as string theory, loop quantum gravity, black-hole physics, and doubly special relativity and implies a minimal length uncertainty and a maximal momentum. We show that the quantized energy spectrum exactly agrees with the semiclassical results.

id: 1205.0941
title: Approximate L-State Solution of the Rotating Trigonometric P?schl-Teller Potential
authors: Majid Hamzavi, Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 14 pages, 5 Figures; Accepted Molecular Physics 2012
journal: Molecular Physics 110 (24) (2012) 3031-3039
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0941
abstract: The trigonometric P\"oschl-Teller (PT) potential describes the diatomic molecular vibration. We have obtained the approximate solutions of the radial Schr\"odinger equation (SE) for the rotating trigonometric PT potential using the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method. The energy eigenvalues and their corresponding eigenfunctions are calculated for arbitrary -states in closed form. In the low screening region, when the screening parameter the potential reduces to Kratzer potential. Further, some numerical results are presented for several diatomic molecules.

id: 1205.0982
title: Soliton Molecules In Dipolar Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Kazimierz ?akomy, Rejish Nath, Luis Santos
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013610 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0982
abstract: Dipolar interactions support the formation of inter-site soliton molecules in a stack of quasi-1D traps. We show that the stability and properties of individual solitons, and soliton molecules in such a geometry crucially depend on the interplay between contact and dipolar interactions. In particular, two different quasi-1D soliton regimes are possible: a 1D soliton characterized by purely repulsive DDI and a 3D soliton for which a sufficiently large dipole moment renders the DDI attractive. Furthermore, we find that contrary to the case of dimers of polar molecules, the soliton dimers exhibit a nontrivial behavior of the elementary excitations that stems from the competition between on-site and inter-site DDI. Finally, we prove the existence of soliton trimers in a regime where molecular trimers do not occur. We demonstrate that the soliton molecules that we report are well feasible under realistic experimental conditions.

id: 1205.1167
title: Particle and Energy Transport in quantum disordered and quasi-periodic chains connected to mesoscopic Fermi reservoirs
authors: S. Ajisaka, F. Barra, C. Mejia-Monasterio, T. Prosen
comments: 11pages, 4 figures
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1468 (2012), 6
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1167
abstract: We study a model of nonequilibrium quantum transport of particles and energy in a many-body system connected to mesoscopic Fermi reservoirs (the so-called meso-reservoirs). We discuss the conservation laws of particles and energy within our setup as well as the transport properties of quasi-periodic and disordered chains.

id: 1205.1178
title: Transmission Character of General Function Photonic Crystals
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Bo-Jun Zhang, Jing-Hai Yang, Si-Qi Zhang, Xiao-Jing Liu, Jing Wang, Nuo Ba, Zhong Hua, Xin-Guo Yin
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1207.3556
journal: Physica E, 45, 166-172, 2012
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1178
abstract: In the paper, we present a new general function photonic crystals (GFPCs), which refractive index of medium is a arbitrary function of space position. Unlike conventional photonic crystals (PCs), which structure grow from two mediums $A$ and $B$, with different constant refractive indexes $n_{a}$ and $n_{b}$. Based on Fermat principle, we give the motion equations of light in one-dimensional GFPCs, and calculate its transfer matrix, which is different from the conventional PCs. We choose the linearity refractive index function for two mediums $A$ and $B$, and find the transmissivity of one-dimensional GFPCs can be much larger or smaller than 1 for different slope linearity refractive index function, which is different from the transmissivity of conventional PCs (its transmissivity is in the range of 0 and 1). Otherwise, we study the effect of different incident angles, the number of periods and optical thickness on the transmissivity, and obtain some new results different from the conventional PCs.

id: 1205.1283
title: Nonadiabatic Dynamics in Open Quantum-Classical Systems: Forward-Backward Trajectory Solution
authors: Chang-Yu Hsieh, Raymond Kapral
comments: 28 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1283
abstract: A new approximate solution to the quantum-classical Liouville equation is derived starting from the formal solution of this equation in forward-backward form. The time evolution of a mixed quantum-classical system described by this equation is obtained in a coherent state basis using the mapping representation, which expresses $N$ quantum degrees of freedom in a 2N-dimensional phase space. The solution yields a simple non-Hamiltonian dynamics in which a set of $N$ coherent state coordinates evolve in forward and backward trajectories while the bath coordinates evolve under the influence of the mean potential that depends on these forward and backward trajectories. It is shown that the solution satisfies the differential form of the quantum-classical Liouville equation exactly. Relations to other mixed quantum-classical and semi-classical schemes are discussed.

id: 1205.1311
title: Metallo-dielectric hybrid antennas for ultrastrong enhancement of spontaneous emission
authors: Xue-Wen Chen, Mario Agio, Vahid Sandoghdar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 233001 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1311
abstract: We devise new optical antennas that reduce the excited-state radiative lifetimes of emitters to the order of 100 femtoseconds while maintaining quantum efficiencies of about 80% at a broadband operation. Here, we combine metallic nanoparticles with planar dielectric structures and exploit design strategies from plasmonic nanoantennas and concepts from Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics to maximize the local density of states and minimize the nonradiative losses incurred by the metallic constituents. The proposed metallo-dielectric hybrid antennas promise important impact on various fundamental and applied research fields, including photophysics, ultrafast plasmonics, bright single photon sources and Raman spectroscopy.

id: 1205.1318
title: The transfer matrix: a geometrical perspective
authors: L. L. Sanchez-Soto, J. J. Monzon, A. G. Barriuso, J. F. Carinena
comments: 50 pages, 24 figures
journal: Physics Reports 513, 191 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1318
abstract: We present a comprehensive and self-contained discussion of the use of the transfer matrix to study propagation in one-dimensional lossless systems, including a variety of examples, such as superlattices, photonic crystals, and optical resonators. In all these cases, the transfer matrix has the same algebraic properties as the Lorentz group in a (2+1)-dimensional spacetime, as well as the group of unimodular real matrices underlying the structure of the abcd law, which explains many subtle details. We elaborate on the geometrical interpretation of the transfer-matrix action as a mapping on the unit disk and apply a simple trace criterion to classify the systems into three types with very different geometrical and physical properties. This approach is applied to some practical examples and, in particular, an alternative framework to deal with periodic (and quasiperiodic) systems is proposed.

id: 1205.1319
title: Competition between relaxation and external driving in the dissipative Landau-Zener problem
authors: P. Nalbach, M. Thorwart
comments: 9 pages, 15 figures
journal: Chem. Phys. 375, 234 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1319
abstract: We study Landau-Zener transitions in a dissipative environment by means of the quasiadiabatic propagator path-integral scheme. It allows to obtain numerically exact results for the full range of the involved parameters. We discover a nonmonotonic dependence of the Landau-Zener transition probability on the sweep velocity which is explained in terms of a simple physical picture. This feature results from a nontrivial competition between relaxation processes and the external sweep and is not captured by perturbative approaches. In addition to the Landau-Zener transition probability, we study the excitation survival probability and also provide a qualitative understanding of the involved competition of time scales.

id: 1205.1346
title: Dynamic modulation of photonic crystal nanocavities using gigahertz acoustic phonons
authors: Daniel A. Fuhrmann, Susanna M. Thon, Hyochul Kim, Dirk Bouwmeester, Pierre M. Petroff, Achim Wixforth, Hubert J. Krenner
comments: 11 pages 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 5, 605-609 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1346
abstract: Photonic crystal membranes (PCM) provide a versatile planar platform for on-chip implementations of photonic quantum circuits. One prominent quantum element is a coupled system consisting of a nanocavity and a single quantum dot (QD) which forms a fundamental building block for elaborate quantum information networks and a cavity quantum electrodynamic (cQED) system controlled by single photons. So far no fast tuning mechanism is available to achieve control within the system coherence time. Here we demonstrate dynamic tuning by monochromatic coherent acoustic phonons formed by a surface acoustic wave (SAW) with frequencies exceeding 1.7 gigahertz, one order of magnitude faster than alternative approaches. We resolve a periodic modulation of the optical mode exceeding eight times its linewidth, preserving both the spatial mode profile and a high quality factor. Since PCMs confine photonic and phononic excitations, coupling optical to acoustic frequencies, our technique opens ways towards coherent acoustic control of optomechanical crystals.

id: 1205.1364
title: Statistical Outliers and Dragon-Kings as Bose-Condensed Droplets
authors: V. I. Yukalov, D. Sornette
comments: Latex file, 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Spec. Top. 205 (2012) 53-64
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); General Finance (q-fin.GN); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1364
abstract: A theory of exceptional extreme events, characterized by their abnormal sizes compared with the rest of the distribution, is presented. Such outliers, called "dragon-kings", have been reported in the distribution of financial drawdowns, city-size distributions (e.g., Paris in France and London in the UK), in material failure, epileptic seizure intensities, and other systems. Within our theory, the large outliers are interpreted as droplets of Bose-Einstein condensate: the appearance of outliers is a natural consequence of the occurrence of Bose-Einstein condensation controlled by the relative degree of attraction, or utility, of the largest entities. For large populations, Zipf's law is recovered (except for the dragon-king outliers). The theory thus provides a parsimonious description of the possible coexistence of a power law distribution of event sizes (Zipf's law) and dragon-king outliers.

id: 1205.1370
title: Study of levitating nanoparticles using ultracold neutrons
authors: V. V. Nesvizhevsky, A. Yu. Voronin, A. Lambrecht, S. Reynaud
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 14 (2012) 093053
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1370
abstract: Physical adsorption of atoms, molecules and clusters on surface is known. It is linked to many phenomena in physics, chemistry, and biology. Usually the studies of adsorption are limited to the particle sizes of up to ~10^2-10^3 atoms. Following a general formalism, we apply it to even larger objects and discover qualitatively new phenomena. A large particle is bound to surface in a deep and broad potential well formed by van der Waals/ Casimir-Polder forces. The well depth is significantly larger than the characteristic thermal energy. Nanoparticles in high-excited bound states form two-dimensional gas of objects quasi-freely traveling along surface. A particularly interesting prediction is small-energy-transfer scattering of UCN on solid/ liquid surfaces covered by such levitating nanoparticles/ nano-droplets. The change in UCN energy is due to the Doppler shift induced by UCN collisions with nanoparticles; the energy change is about as small as the UCN initial energy. We compare theoretical estimations of our model to all relevant existing data and state that they agree quite well. As our theoretical formalism provides robust predictions and the experimental data are rather precise, we conclude that the recently discovered intriguing phenomenon of small heating of UCN in traps is due to their collisions with such levitating nanoparticles. Moreover, this new phenomenon might be relevant to the striking contradiction between results of the neutron lifetime measurements with smallest reported uncertainties as it might cause major false effects in these experiments; thus it affects fundamental conclusions concerning precision checks of unitarity of the Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix, cosmology, astrophysics. Dedicated measurements of UCN up-scattering on specially prepared surfaces and nanoparticles levitating above them might provide a unique method to study surface potentials.

id: 1205.1372
title: Mass operator and dynamical implementation of mass superselection rule
authors: Eleonora Annigoni, Valter Moretti
comments: 30 Pages, no figures, minor changes. Accepted for publication in Annales Henri Poincar\'e
journal: Ann. Henri Poincare 14 (2013) 893
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1372
abstract: We start reviewing Giulini's dynamical approach to Bargmann superselection rule proposing some improvements. We discuss some general features of the central extensions of the Galileian group used in Giulini's programme, focussing on the interplay of classical and quantum picture, without making any particular choice for the multipliers. Preserving other features of Giulini's approach, we modify the mass operator of a Galilei invariant quantum system to obtain a mass spectrum that is positive and discrete, giving rise to a standard (non-continuous) superselection rule. The model is invariant under time reversal but a further degree of freedom appears, interpreted as an internal conserved charge. (However, adopting a POVM approach a positive mass operator arises without assuming the existence of such a charge.) The effectiveness of Bargmann rule is shown to be equivalent to an averaging procedure over the unobservable degrees of freedom of the central extension of Galileo group. Moreover, viewing the Galileian invariant quantum mechanics as a non-relativistic limit, we prove that the above-mentioned averaging procedure giving rise to Bargmann superselection rule is nothing but an effective de-coherence phenomenon due to time evolution if assuming that real measurements includes a temporal averaging procedure. It happens when the added term $Mc^2$ is taken in the due account in the Hamiltonian operator since, in the dynamical approach, the mass $M$ is an operator and cannot be trivially neglected as in classical mechanics. The presented results are quite general and rely upon the only hypothesis that the mass operator has point-wise spectrum. These results explicitly show the interplay of the period of time of the averaging procedure, the energy content of the considered states, and the minimal difference of the mass operator eigenvalues.

id: 1205.1374
title: Time reversal symmetry in optics
authors: Gerd Leuchs, Markus Sondermann
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, typeset with revtex
journal: Physica Scripta 85, 058101 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1374
abstract: The utilization of time reversal symmetry in designing and implementing (quantum) optical experiments has become more and more frequent over the past years. We review the basic idea underlying time reversal methods, illustrate it with several examples and discuss a number of implications.

id: 1205.1447
title: Schroedinger models for solutions of the Bethe-Salpeter equation in Minkowski space
authors: Richard L. Hall, Wolfgang Lucha
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85, 125006 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1447
abstract: By application of the 'geometric spectral inversion' technique, which we have recently generalized to accommodate also singular interaction potentials, we construct from spectral data emerging from the solution of the Minkowski-space formulation of the homogeneous Bethe-Salpeter equation describing bound states of two spinless particles a Schroedinger approach to such states in terms of nonrelativistic potential models. This spectrally equivalent modeling of bound states yields their qualitative features (masses, form factors, etc.) without having to deal with the more involved Bethe-Salpeter formalism.

id: 1205.1521
title: Measuring entanglement growth in quench dynamics of bosons in an optical lattice
authors: A. J. Daley, H. Pichler, J. Schachenmayer, P. Zoller
comments: 4+ pages plus supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 020505 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1521
abstract: We discuss a scheme to measure the many-body entanglement growth during quench dynamics with bosonic atoms in optical lattices. By making use of a 1D or 2D setup in which two copies of the same state are prepared, we show how arbitrary order Renyi entropies can be extracted using tunnel-coupling between the copies and measurement of the parity of on-site occupation numbers, as has been performed in recent experiments. We illustrate these ideas for a Superfluid-Mott insulator quench in the Bose-Hubbard model, and also for hard-core bosons, and show that the scheme is robust against imperfections in the measurements.

id: 1205.1582
title: Relativistic effect of spin and pseudospin symmetries
authors: Shou-Wan Chen, Jian-You Guo
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, accepted by PRC
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1582
abstract: Dirac Hamiltonian is scaled in the atomic units $\hbar =m=1$, which allows us to take the non-relativistic limit by setting the Compton wavelength $% \lambda \rightarrow 0 $. The evolutions of the spin and pseudospin symmetries towards the non-relativistic limit are investigated by solving the Dirac equation with the parameter $\lambda$. With $\lambda$ transformation from the original Compton wavelength to 0, the spin splittings decrease monotonously in all spin doublets, and the pseudospin splittings increase in several pseudospin doublets, no change, or even reduce in several other pseudospin doublets. The various energy splitting behaviors of both the spin and pseudospin doublets with $\lambda$ are well explained by the perturbation calculations of Dirac Hamiltonian in the present units. It indicates that the origin of spin symmetry is entirely due to the relativistic effect, while the origin of pseudospin symmetry cannot be uniquely attributed to the relativistic effect.

id: 1205.1584
title: Everything is Entangled
authors: Roman V. Buniy, Stephen D.H. Hsu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, revtex. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0908.1265
journal: Phys.Lett. B718 (2012) 233-236
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1584
abstract: We show that big bang cosmology implies a high degree of entanglement of particles in the universe. In fact, a typical particle is entangled with many particles far outside our horizon. However, the entanglement is spread nearly uniformly so that two randomly chosen particles are unlikely to be directly entangled with each other -- the reduced density matrix describing any pair is likely to be separable.

id: 1205.1637
title: Disclosing the spatio-temporal structure of PDC entanglement through frequency up-conversion
authors: Enrico Brambilla, Ottavia Jedrkiewicz, Luigi Lugiato, Alessandra Gatti
comments: 20 pages, 19 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1637
abstract: In this work we propose and analyse a scheme where the full spatio-temporal correlation of twin photons/beams generated by parametric down-conversion is detected by using its inverse process, i.e. sum frequency generation. Our main result is that, by imposing independently a temporal delay \Delta t and a transverse spatial shift \Delta x between two twin components of PDC light, the up-converted light intensity provides information on the correlation of the PDC light in the full spatio-temporal domain, and should enable the reconstruction of the peculiar X-shaped structure of the correlation predicted in [gatti2009,caspani2010,brambilla2010]. Through both a semi-analytical and a numerical modeling of the proposed optical system, we analyse the feasibility of the experiment and identify the best conditions to implement it. In particular, the tolerance of the phase-sensitive measurement against the presence of dispersive elements, imperfect imaging conditions and possible misalignments of the two crystals is evaluated.

id: 1205.1788
title: Clockwork Quantum Universe
authors: Donatello Dolce
comments: IV Prize, FQXi Essay Contest 2011 "Is Reality Digital or Analog?". 8 pages, minor corrections. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1111.3319
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1788
abstract: Besides the purely digital or analog interpretation of reality there is a third possibility which incorporates important aspects of both. This is the cyclic formulation of elementary systems, in which elementary particles are represented as classical strings vibrating in compact space-time dimensions with periodic boundary conditions. We will address these cyclic solutions as "de Broglie internal clocks". They constitute the deterministic gears of a consistent semi-classical description of quantum relativistic physics, providing in addition an appealing formulation of the notion of time.

id: 1205.1802
title: High fidelity quantum gates via analytically solvable pulses
authors: Sophia E. Economou
comments: Typo in Eq. 1 corrected from previous version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 241401(R) (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1802
abstract: It is shown that a family of analytically solvable pulses can be used to obtain high fidelity quantum phase gates with surprising robustness against imperfections in the system or pulse parameters. Phase gates are important because they can implement the necessary operations for universal quantum computing. They are particularly suited for systems such as self-assembled quantum dots, trapped ions, and defects in solids, as these are typically manipulated by the transient excitation of a state outside the qubit subspace.

id: 1205.1818
title: Wedges, Cones, Cosmic Strings, and the Reality of Vacuum Energy
authors: S. A. Fulling, C. S. Trendafilova, P. N. Truong, J. Wagner
comments: 28 pages, 16 figures. Special volume in honor of J. S. Dowker
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 374018 (minor revisions including title)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1818
abstract: One of J. Stuart Dowker's most significant achievements has been to observe that the theory of diffraction by wedges developed a century ago by Sommerfeld and others provided the key to solving two problems of great interest in general-relativistic quantum field theory during the last quarter of the twentieth century: the vacuum energy associated with an infinitely thin, straight cosmic string, and (after an interchange of time with a space coordinate) the apparent vacuum energy of empty space as viewed by an accelerating observer. In a sense the string problem is more elementary than the wedge, since Sommerfeld's technique was to relate the wedge problem to that of a conical manifold by the method of images. Indeed, Minkowski space, as well as all cone and wedge problems, are related by images to an infinitely sheeted master manifold, which we call Dowker space. We review the research in this area and exhibit in detail the vacuum expectation values of the energy density and pressure of a scalar field in Dowker space and the cone and wedge spaces that result from it. We point out that the (vanishing) vacuum energy of Minkowski space results, from the point of view of Dowker space, from the quantization of angular modes, in precisely the way that the Casimir energy of a toroidal closed universe results from the quantization of Fourier modes; we hope that this understanding dispels any lingering doubts about the reality of cosmological vacuum energy.

id: 1205.1820
title: The non-algorithmic side of the mind
authors: Paola Zizzi
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1820
abstract: The existence of a non-algorithmic side of the mind, conjectured by Penrose on the basis of G\"odel's first incompleteness theorem, is investigated here in terms of a quantum metalanguage. We suggest that, besides human ordinary thought, which can be formalized in a computable, logical language, there is another important kind of human thought, which is Turing-non-computable. This is methatought, the process of thinking about ordinary thought. Metathought can be formalized as a metalanguage, which speaks about and controls the logical language of ordinary thought. Ordinary thought has two computational modes, the quantum mode and the classical mode, the latter deriving from decoherence of the former. In order to control the logical language of the quantum mode, one needs to introduce a quantum metalanguage, which in turn requires a quantum version of Tarski Convention T.

id: 1205.1847
title: Bypassing the bandwidth theorem with PT symmetry
authors: Hamidreza Ramezani, J. Schindler, F. M. Ellis, Uwe Guenther, Tsampikos Kottos
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: PRA 85, 062122 (2012)
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1847
abstract: The beat time {\tau}_{fpt} associated with the energy transfer between two coupled oscillators is dictated by the bandwidth theorem which sets a lower bound {\tau}_{fpt}\sim 1/{\delta}{\omega}. We show, both experimentally and theoretically, that two coupled active LRC electrical oscillators with parity-time (PT) symmetry, bypass the lower bound imposed by the bandwidth theorem, reducing the beat time to zero while retaining a real valued spectrum and fixed eigenfrequency difference {\delta}{\omega}. Our results foster new design strategies which lead to (stable) pseudo-unitary wave evolution, and may allow for ultrafast computation, telecommunication, and signal processing.

id: 1205.1876
title: Cavity-meidated collisionless sympathetic cooling of molecules with atoms
authors: Guangjiong Dong, Chang Wang, Weiping Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1876
abstract: Cooling a range of molecules to ultracold temperatures (<1 mK) is a difficult but important challenge in molecular physics and chemistry. Collective cavity cooling of molecules is a promising method that does not rely on molecular energy level and thus can be applied to all molecules in principle. However, the initial lack of cold molecules leads to the difficulty in its experimental implementation. We show that efficient collective sympathetic cooling of molecules to sub-mK temperatures using a large ensemble of atoms within a cavity is feasible. This approach is a new type of sympathetic cooling which does not rely on direct collisions between atoms and molecules, but utilizes thermalization via their mutual interaction with a cavity field. Two important mechanisms are identified. This include: (1) giant enhancement of cavity optical field from the efficient scattering of the pump light by the atoms; (2) cavity-mediated collective interaction between the atoms and the molecules. We show an optimal cavity detuning for maximizing cooling, which is dependent on the atom and molecule numbers. We determine a threshold for the molecular pump strength and show that it is independent of molecule number when the number of atoms is much greater than the molecules. This can be reduced by orders of magnitude when compared to cavity cooling of single molecular species only. Using this new sympathetic cavity cooling technique, cooling molecules to sub-mK within a high-Q cavity could be within reach of experimental demonstration.

id: 1205.1883
title: Microscopic theory of phonon-induced effects on semiconductor quantum dot decay dynamics in cavity QED
authors: P. Kaer, T. R. Nielsen, P. Lodahl, A.-P. Jauho, J. Mork
comments: published PRB version, comments are very welcome
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1883
abstract: We investigate the influence of the electron-phonon interaction on the decay dynamics of a quantum dot coupled to an optical microcavity. We show that the electron-phonon interaction has important consequences on the dynamics, especially when the quantum dot and cavity are tuned out of resonance, in which case the phonons may add or remove energy leading to an effective non-resonant coupling between quantum dot and cavity. The system is investigated using two different theoretical approaches: (i) a second-order expansion in the bare phonon coupling constant, and (ii) an expansion in a polaron-photon coupling constant, arising from the polaron transformation which allows an accurate description at high temperatures. In the low temperature regime we find excellent agreement between the two approaches. An extensive study of the quantum dot decay dynamics is performed, where important parameter dependencies are covered. We find that in general the electron-phonon interaction gives rise to a greatly increased bandwidth of the coupling between quantum dot and cavity. At low temperature an asymmetry in the quantum dot decay rate is observed, leading to a faster decay when the quantum dot has a larger energy than to the cavity. We explain this as due to the absence of phonon absorption processes. Furthermore, we derive approximate analytical expressions for the quantum dot decay rate, applicable when the cavity can be adiabatically eliminated. The expressions lead to a clear interpretation of the physics and emphasizes the important role played by the effective phonon density, describing the availability of phonons for scattering, in quantum dot decay dynamics. Based on the analytical expressions we present the parameter regimes where phonon effects are expected to be important. Also, we include all technical developments in appendices.

id: 1205.1888
title: Spinor Bose gases: Explorations of symmetries, magnetism and quantum dynamics
authors: Dan M. Stamper-Kurn, Masahito Ueda
comments: 60 page review paper, 24 figures. Revised following comments from colleagues and referees. We warmly invite further comments on the paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1888
abstract: Spinor Bose gases form a family of quantum fluids manifesting both magnetic order and superfluidity. This article reviews experimental and theoretical progress in understanding the static and dynamic properties of these fluids. The connection between system properties and the rotational symmetry properties of the atomic states and their interactions are investigated. Following a review of the experimental techniques used for characterizing spinor gases, their mean-field and many-body ground states, both in isolation and under the application of symmetry-breaking external fields, are discussed. These states serve as the starting point for understanding low-energy dynamics, spin textures and topological defects, effects of magnetic dipole interactions, and various non-equilibrium collective spin-mixing phenomena. The paper aims to form connections and establish coherence among the vast range of works on spinor Bose gases, so as to point to open questions and future research opportunities.

id: 1205.1949
title: Ground state sideband cooling of an ion in a room temperature trap with a sub-Hertz heating rate
authors: G. Poulsen, Y. Miroshnychenko, M. Drewsen
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1949
abstract: We demonstrate resolved sideband laser cooling of a single 40Ca+ ion in a macroscopic linear radio frequency trap with a radial diagonal electrode spacing of 7 mm and an rf drive frequency of just 3.7 MHz. For an oscillation frequency of 585 kHz along the rf-field-free axis, a ground state population of 99+-1% has been achieved, corresponding to a temperature of only 6 microkelvin. For several oscillation frequencies in the range 285 - 585 kHz, heating rates below one motional quantum per second have been measured at room temperature. The lowest measured heating power is about an order of magnitude lower than reported previously in room temperature, as well as cryogenically cooled traps.

id: 1205.1992
title: Relativistic Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Field Theory
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 43 pages, Chapter 8. of the book "Applied Bohmian Mechanics: From Nanoscale Systems to Cosmology", edited by X. Oriols and J. Mompart (Pan Stanford Publishing, 2012); ISBN: 978-981-4316-39-2, Copyright 2012 by Pan Stanford Publishing Pte. Ltd
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.1992
abstract: A general formulation of classical relativistic particle mechanics is presented, with an emphasis on the fact that superluminal velocities and nonlocal interactions are compatible with relativity. Then a manifestly relativistic-covariant formulation of relativistic quantum mechanics (QM) of fixed number of particles (with or without spin) is presented, based on many-time wave functions and the spacetime probabilistic interpretation. These results are used to formulate the Bohmian interpretation of relativistic QM in a manifestly relativistic-covariant form. The results are also generalized to quantum field theory (QFT), where quantum states are represented by wave functions depending on an infinite number of spacetime coordinates. The corresponding Bohmian interpretation of QFT describes an infinite number of particle trajectories. Even though the particle trajectories are continuous, the appearance of creation and destruction of a finite number of particles results from quantum theory of measurements describing entanglement with particle detectors.

id: 1205.2004
title: Under-the-barrier dynamics in laser-induced relativistic tunneling
authors: Michael Klaiber, Enderalp Yakaboylu, Heiko Bauke, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 153004 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2004
abstract: The tunneling dynamics in relativistic strong-field ionization is investigated with the aim to develop an intuitive picture for the relativistic tunneling regime. We demonstrate that the tunneling picture applies also in the relativistic regime by introducing position dependent energy levels. The quantum dynamics in the classically forbidden region features two time scales, the typical time that characterizes the probability density's decay of the ionizing electron under the barrier (Keldysh time) and the time interval which the electron spends inside the barrier (Eisenbud-Wigner-Smith tunneling time). In the relativistic regime, an electron momentum shift as well as a spatial shift along the laser propagation direction arise during the under-the-barrier motion which are caused by the laser magnetic field induced Lorentz force. The momentum shift is proportional to the Keldysh time, while the wave-packet's spatial drift is proportional to the Eisenbud-Wigner-Smith time. The signature of the momentum shift is shown to be present in the ionization spectrum at the detector and, therefore, observable experimentally. In contrast, the signature of the Eisenbud-Wigner-Smith time delay disappears at far distances for pure quasistatic tunneling dynamics.

id: 1205.2058
title: Specific heats of quantum double-well systems
authors: Hideo Hasegawa
comments: 27 pages, 12 figures; Correted figure numbers (accepted in Phys. Rev. E)
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86 (2012) 061104
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2058
abstract: Specific heats of quantum systems with symmetric and asymmetric double-well potentials have been calculated. In numerical calculations of their specific heats, we have adopted the combined method which takes into account not only eigenvalues of $\epsilon_n$ for $0 \leq n \leq N_m$ obtained by the energy-matrix diagonalization but also their extrapolated ones for $N_m+1 \leq n < \infty$ ($N_m=20$ or 30). Calculated specific heats are shown to be rather different from counterparts of a harmonic oscillator. In particular, specific heats of symmetric double-well systems at very low temperatures have the Schottky-type anomaly, which is rooted to a small energy gap in low-lying two-level eigenstates induced by a tunneling through the potential barrier. The Schottky-type anomaly is removed when an asymmetry is introduced into the double-well potential. It has been pointed out that the specific-heat calculation of a double-well system reported by Feranchuk, Ulyanenkov and Kuz'min [Chem. Phys. 157, 61 (1991)] is misleading because the zeroth-order operator method they adopted neglects crucially important off-diagonal contributions.

id: 1205.2121
title: Non-equilibrium dynamics of an unstable quantum pendulum
authors: C.S. Gerving, T.M. Hoang, B.J. Land, M. Anquez, C.D. Hamley, M.S. Chapman
comments: Main text 6 pages, 5 figures; Supplement 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2121
abstract: A pendulum prepared perfectly inverted and motionless is a prototype of unstable equilibria and corresponds to an unstable hyperbolic fixed point in the dynamical phase space. Unstable fixed points are central to understanding Hamiltonian chaos in classical systems. In many-body quantum systems, mean-field approximations fail in the vicinity of unstable fixed points and lead to dynamics driven by quantum fluctuations. Here, we measure the non-equilibrium dynamics of a many-body quantum pendulum initialized to a hyperbolic fixed point of the phase space. The experiment uses a spin-1 Bose condensate, which exhibits Josephson dynamics in the spin populations that correspond in the mean-field limit to motion of a non-rigid mechanical pendulum. The condensate is initialized to a minimum uncertainty spin state, and quantum fluctuations lead to non-linear spin evolution along a separatrix and non-Gaussian probability distributions that are measured to be in good agreement with exact quantum calculations up to 0.25 s. At longer times, atomic loss due to the finite lifetime of the condensate leads to larger spin oscillation amplitudes compared to no loss case as orbits depart from the separatrix. This demonstrates how decoherence of a many-body system can result in more apparent coherent behaviour. This experiment provides new avenues for studying macroscopic spin systems in the quantum limit and for investigations of important topics in non-equilibrium quantum dynamics.

id: 1205.2160
title: Readout of superconducting flux qubit state with a Cooper pair box
authors: Mun Dae Kim, K. Moon
comments: to appear in J. Phys.:Condensed Matter
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2160
abstract: We study a readout scheme of superconducting flux qubit state with a Cooper pair box as a transmon. The qubit states consist of the superpositions of two degenerate states where the charge and phase degrees of freedom are entangled. Owing to the robustness of transmon against external fluctuations, our readout scheme enables the quantum non-demolition and single-shot measurement of flux qubit states. The qubit state readout can be performed by using the non-linear Josephson amplifiers after a $\pi/2$-rotation driven by an ac-electric field.

id: 1205.2191
title: Relativistic study of the energy-dependent Coulomb potential including Coulomb-like tensor interaction
authors: Majid Hamzavi, Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 13 pages, to appear in Canadian Journal of Physics (2012)
journal: Canadian Journal of Physics 90 (7), 655-660 (2012)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2191
abstract: The exact Dirac equation for the energy-dependent Coulomb (EDC) potential including a Coulomb-like tensor (CLT) potential has been studied in the presence of spin and pseudospin (p-spin) symmetries with arbitrary spin-orbit quantum number The energy eigenvalues and corresponding eigenfunctions are obtained in the framework of asymptotic iteration method (AIM). Some numerical results are obtained in the presence and absence of EDC and CLT potentials.

id: 1205.2211
title: Quantum Quench in the Transverse Field Ising Chain II: Stationary State Properties
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, Fabian H.L. Essler, Maurizio Fagotti
comments: 30 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2012) P07022
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2211
abstract: We consider the stationary state properties of the reduced density matrix as well as spin-spin correlation functions after a sudden quantum quench of the magnetic field in the transverse field Ising chain. We demonstrate that stationary state properties are described by a generalized Gibbs ensemble. We discuss the approach to the stationary state at late times.

id: 1205.2221
title: Estimating Coefficients of Frobenius Series by Legendre Transform and WKB Approximation
authors: Amna Noreen, K?re Olaussen
comments: Accepted contribution to The 2012 International Conference of Computer Science and Engineering, London 4-6 July 2012
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2221
abstract: The Frobenius method can be used to represent solutions of ordinary differential equations by (generalized) power series. It is useful to have prior knowledge of the coefficients of this series. In this contribution we demonstrate that the magnitude of the coefficients can be predicted to surprisingly high accuracy by a Legendre transformation of WKB approximated solutions to the differential equations.

id: 1205.2226
title: High precision series solution of differential equations: Ordinary and regular singular point of second order ODEs
authors: Amna Noreen, K?re Olaussen
comments: Accepted for publication in Computer Physics Communications 2012. Computer code available from CPC Program library under catalogue identifier AEMW_v1_0
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2226
abstract: A subroutine for very-high-precision numerical solution of a class of ordinary differential equations is provided. For given evaluation point and equation parameters the memory requirement scales linearly with precision $P$, and the number of algebraic operations scales roughly linearly with $P$ when $P$ becomes sufficiently large. We discuss results from extensive tests of the code, and how one for a given evaluation point and equation parameters may estimate precision loss and computing time in advance.

id: 1205.2231
title: Born-Oppenheimer description of two atoms in a combined oscillator and lattice trap
authors: Ole S?e S?rensen, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2231
abstract: We analyze the quantum states of two atoms in a combined harmonic oscillator and periodic lattice trap in one spatial dimension. In the case of tight-binding and only nearest neighbor tunneling, the equations of motion are conveniently represented in the momentum representation. We show that in the case of strong attraction between the particles, the di?erent time scales of relative and center-of-mass motion validate a separation of the problem similar to the Born-Oppenheimer approximation applied in the description of electronic and nuclear motion in molecules.

id: 1205.2245
title: Flat bands with higher Chern number in pyrochlore slabs
authors: Maximilian Trescher, Emil J. Bergholtz
comments: 5+3 pages. Title extended, as published
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 241111(R) (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2245
abstract: A large number of recent works point to the emergence of intriguing analogs of fractional quantum Hall states in lattice models due to effective interactions in nearly flat bands with Chern number C=1. Here, we provide an intuitive and efficient construction of almost dispersionless bands with higher Chern numbers. Inspired by the physics of quantum Hall multilayers and pyrochlore-based transition-metal oxides, we study a tight-binding model describing spin-orbit coupled electrons in N parallel kagome layers connected by apical sites forming N-1 intermediate triangular layers (as in the pyrochlore lattice). For each N, we find finite regions in parameter space giving a virtually flat band with C=N. We analytically express the states within these topological bands in terms of single-layer states and thereby explicitly demonstrate that the C=N wave functions have an appealing structure in which layer index and translations in reciprocal space are intricately coupled. This provides a promising arena for new collective states of matter.

id: 1205.2248
title: Gauge symmetry restoration in the un-particle vacuum
authors: Patricio Gaete, Euro Spallucci
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors in view of an improvement
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2248
abstract: In this note we investigate the impact of some "new-physics", beyond the electro-weak Standard Model of elementary particles, on the Higgs vacuum. We consider both un-particle and quantum gravity induced effects. We find that even if the Higgs field takes a non-vanishing v.e.v., gauge interaction keeps its long range character leading to an effective gauge symmetry restoration. Next, by using a physically-based alternative to the usual Wilson loop approach, we examine the effect of a quantum gravity induced minimal length on a physical observable in the un-particle sector. As a consequence, we obtain an ultraviolet finite interaction energy described by a confluent hyper-geometric function. This result displays a marked qualitative departure from its standard counterpart.

id: 1205.2260
title: Atoms confined by very thin layers
authors: Matej Tusek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2260
abstract: The Hamiltonian of an atom with $N$ electrons and a fixed nucleus of infinite mass between two parallel planes is considered in the limit when the distance $a$ between the planes tends to zero. We show that this Hamiltonian converges in the norm resolvent sense to a Schr\"{o}dinger operator acting effectively in $L^{2}(\mathbb{R}^{2N})$ whose potential part depends on $a$. Moreover, we prove that after an appropriate regularization this Schr\"{o}dinger operator tends, again in the norm resolvent sense, to the Hamiltonian of a two-dimensional atom (with the three-dimensional Coulomb potential-one over distance), as $a\to 0$. This makes possible to locate the discrete spectrum of the full Hamiltonian once we know the spectrum of the latter one. Our results also provide a mathematical justification for the interest in the two-dimensional atoms with the three-dimensional Coulomb potential.

id: 1205.2291
title: PT-symmetric noncommutative spaces with minimal volume uncertainty relations
authors: Sanjib Dey, Andreas Fring, Laure Gouba
comments: 18 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 385302
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2291
abstract: We provide a systematic procedure to relate a three dimensional q-deformed oscillator algebra to the corresponding algebra satisfied by canonical variables describing noncommutative spaces. The large number of possible free parameters in these calculations is reduced to a manageable amount by imposing various different versions of PT-symmetry on the underlying spaces, which are dictated by the specific physical problem under consideration. The representations for the corresponding operators are in general non-Hermitian with regard to standard inner products and obey algebras whose uncertainty relations lead to minimal length, areas or volumes in phase space. We analyze in particular one three dimensional solution which may be decomposed to a two dimensional noncommutative space plus one commuting space component and also into a one dimensional noncommutative space plus two commuting space components. We study some explicit models on these type of noncommutative spaces.

id: 1205.2315
title: Non-Markovian qubit decoherence during dispersive readout
authors: Georg M. Reuther, Peter H?nggi, Sigmund Kohler
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062123 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2315
abstract: We study qubit decoherence under generalized dispersive readout, i.e., we investigate a qubit coupled to a resonantly driven dissipative harmonic oscillator. We provide a complete picture by allowing for arbitrarily large qubit-oscillator detuning and by considering also a coupling to the square of the oscillator coordinate, which is relevant for flux qubits. Analytical results for the decoherence time are obtained by a transformation of the qubit-oscillator Hamiltonian to the dispersive frame and a subsequent master equation treatment beyond the Markov limit. We predict a crossover from Markovian decay to a decay with Gaussian shape. Our results are corroborated by the numerical solution of the full qubit-oscillator master equation in the original frame.

id: 1205.2426
title: Quantum behavior of graphene transistors near the scaling limit
authors: Yanqing Wu, Vasili Perebeinos, Yu-ming Lin, Tony Low, Fengnian Xia, Phaedon Avouris
comments: 
journal: Nano Lett., 2012, 12 (3), pp 1417-1423
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2426
abstract: The superior intrinsic properties of graphene have been a key research focus for the past few years. However, external components, such as metallic contacts, serve not only as essential probing elements, but also give rise to an effective electron cavity, which can form the basis for new quantum devices. In previous studies, quantum interference effects were demonstrated in graphene heterojunctions formed by a top gate. Here phase coherent transport behavior is demonstrated in a simple two terminal graphene structure with clearly-resolved Fabry-Perot oscillations in sub-100 nm devices. By aggressively scaling the channel length down to 50 nm, we study the evolution of the graphene transistor from the channel-dominated diffusive regime to the contact-dominated ballistic regime. Key issues such as the current asymmetry, the question of Fermi level pinning by the contacts, the graphene screening determining the heterojunction barrier width, the scaling of minimum conductivity and of the on/off current ratio, are investigated.

id: 1205.2444
title: Mode summation approach to Casimir effect between two objects
authors: L. P. Teo
comments: 42 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 27 (2012), 1230021
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2444
abstract: In this paper, we explore the TGTG formula from the perspective of mode summation approach. Both scalar fields and electromagnetic fields are considered. In this approach, one has to first solve the equation of motion to find a wave basis for each object. The two T's in the TGTG formula are T-matrices representing the Lippmann-Schwinger T-operators, one for each of the objects. The two G's in the TGTG formula are the translation matrices, relating the wave basis of an object to the wave basis of the other object. After discussing the general theory, we apply the prescription to derive the explicit formulas for the Casimir energies for the sphere-sphere, sphere-plane, cylinder-cylinder and cylinder-plane interactions. First the T-matrices for a plane, a sphere and a cylinder are derived for the following cases: the object is imposed with general Robin boundary conditions; the object is semitransparent; and the object is magnetodielectric. Then the operator approach is used to derive the translation matrices. From these, the explicit TGTG formula for each of the scenarios can be written down. Besides summarizing all the TGTG formulas that have been derived so far, we also provide the TGTG formulas for some scenarios that have not been considered before.

id: 1205.2462
title: Nonequilibrium quantum dynamics of the magnetic Anderson model
authors: Daniel Becker, Stephan Weiss, Michael Thorwart, Daniela Pfannkuche
comments: 32 pages, 15 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 073049
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2462
abstract: We study the non-equilibrium dynamics of a spinful single-orbital quantum dot with an incorporated quantum mechanical spin-1/2 magnetic impurity. Due to the spin degeneracy, double occupancy is allowed, and Coulomb interaction together with the exchange coupling of the magnetic impurity influence the dynamics. By extending the iterative summation of real-time path integrals (ISPI) to this coupled system, we monitor the time-dependent non-equilibrium current and the impurity spin polarization to determine features of the time-dependent non-equilibrium dynamics. We particulary focus on the deep quantum regime, where all time and energy scales are of the same order of magnitude and no small parameter is available. We observe a significant influence of the non-equilibrium decay of the impurity spin polarization both in the presence and in the absence of Coulomb interaction. The exponential relaxation is faster for larger bias voltages, electron-impurity interactions and temperatures. We show that the exact relaxation rate deviates from the corresponding perturbative result. In addition, we study in detail the impurity's back action on the charge current and find a reduction of the stationary current for increasing coupling to the impurity. Moreover, our approach allows us to systematically distinguish mean-field Coulomb and impurity effects from the influence of quantum fluctuations and flip-flop scattering, respectively. In fact, we find a local maximum of the current for a finite Coulomb interaction due to the presence of the impurity.

id: 1205.2474
title: Testing Spatial Noncommutativity via Magnetic Hyperfine Structure Induced by Fractional Angular Momentum of Rydberg System
authors: Zhang Jian-Zu, Liu Hong-Ping, Cao Wei, Gao Ke-Lin
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: Eerophys.Lett, 98 (2012) 40002
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2474
abstract: An approach to solve the critical problem of testing quantum effects of spatial noncommutativity is proposed. Magnetic hyperfine structures in a Rydberg system induced by fractional angular momentum originated from spatial noncommutativity are discussed. The orders of the corresponding magnetic hyperfine splitting of spectrum $\sim 10^{-7} - 10^{-8} eV$ lie within the limits of accuracy of current experimental measurements. Experimental tests of physics beyond the standard model are the focus of broad interest. We note that the present approach is reasonable achievable with current technology. The proof is based on very general arguments involving only the deformed Heisenberg-Weyl algebra and the fundamental property of angular momentum. Its experimental verification would constitute an advance in understanding of fundamental significance, and would be a key step towards a decisive test of spatial noncommutativity.

id: 1205.2478
title: Measuring the influence of Casimir energy on superconducting phase transitions: a cross-correlation data analysis
authors: Annalisa Allocca, Giuseppe Bimonte, Detlef Born, Enrico Calloni, Giampiero Esposito, Uwe Huebner, Evgeni Il'ichev, Luigi Rosa, Francesco Tafuri
comments: 7 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2478
abstract: The ALADIN experiment aims at observing how the critical magnetic field of a superconducting Aluminum film is modified, when it constitutes one of the reflecting surfaces of a Casimir cavity. If successful, such an observation would reveal the influence of vacuum energy on the superconducting phase transition. In this paper a rigorous analysis of experimental data is reported, the results are discussed and compared with theoretical predictions based on Lifshitz theory of dispersion forces, and the BCS formula for the optical conductivity of superconductors. The main novelty with respect to a previous data analysis by some of the authors, is the use of a cross-correlation method which is more rigorous and leads to better estimates.

id: 1205.2574
title: Virial expansion coefficients in the harmonic approximation
authors: J. R. Armstrong, N. T. Zinner, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 021115 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2574
abstract: The virial expansion method is applied within a harmonic approximation to an interacting N-body system of identical fermions. We compute the canonical partition functions for two and three particles to get the two lowest orders in the expansion. The energy spectrum is carefully interpolated to reproduce ground state properties at low temperature and the non-interacting large temperature limit of constant virial coefficients. This resembles the smearing of shell effects in finite systems with increasing temperature. Numerical results are discussed for the second and third virial coefficients as function of dimension, temperature, interaction, and the transition temperature between low and high energy limits.

id: 1205.2675
title: Quantum Mechanics, Gravity, and the Multiverse
authors: Yasunori Nomura
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures. An article published in the Astronomical Review, based on talks given by the author at various institutions. v2: a note added
journal: AstRv. 7, 36 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2675
abstract: The discovery of accelerating expansion of the universe has led us to take the dramatic view that our universe may be one of the many universes in which low energy physical laws take different forms: the multiverse. I explain why/how this view is supported both observationally and theoretically, especially by string theory and eternal inflation. I then describe how quantum mechanics plays a crucial role in understanding the multiverse, even at the largest distance scales. The resulting picture leads to a revolutionary change of our view of spacetime and gravity, and completely unifies the paradigm of the eternally inflating multiverse with the many worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics. The picture also provides a solution to a long-standing problem in eternal inflation, called the measure problem, which I briefly describe.

id: 1205.2806
title: Micromotion-induced Limit to Atom-Ion Sympathetic Cooling in Paul Traps
authors: Marko Cetina, Andrew T. Grier, Vladan Vuleti?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2806
abstract: We present and derive analytic expressions for a fundamental limit to the sympathetic cooling of ions in radio-frequency traps using cold atoms. The limit arises from the work done by the trap electric field during a long-range ion-atom collision and applies even to cooling by a zero-temperature atomic gas in a perfectly compensated trap. We conclude that in current experimental implementations this collisional heating prevents access to the regimes of single-partial-wave atom-ion interaction or quantized ion motion. We determine conditions on the atom-ion mass ratio and on the trap parameters for reaching the s-wave collision regime and the trap ground state.

id: 1205.2861
title: Exact asymptotic behavior of correlation functions for disordered spin-1/2 XXZ chains
authors: Zoran Ristivojevic, Aleksandra Petkovic, Thierry Giamarchi
comments: 11 pages
journal: Nuclear Physics B 864, 317 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2861
abstract: We consider an XXZ spin-1/2 chain in the presence of several types of disorder that do not break the XY symmetry of the system. We calculate the complete asymptotic form of the spin-correlation functions at zero temperature at the transition between liquid and disordered phase that occurs for a special value of anisotropy in the limit of small disorder. Apart from a universal power law decay of correlations, we find additional logarithmic corrections due to marginally irrelevant operator of disorder.

id: 1205.2953
title: Expressing entropy globally in terms of (4D) field-correlations
authors: Rafael D. Sorkin
comments: plainTeX, 14 pages, 2 figures. To appear in proceedings of ICGC2011, held Goa, Journal of Physics Conference Series. Most current version is available at this http URL (or wherever my home-page may be, such as this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2953
abstract: We express the entropy of a scalar field phi directly in terms of its spacetime correlation function W(x,y) = <phi(x) phi(y)>, assuming that the higher correlators are of "Gaussian" form. The resulting formula associates an entropy S(R) to any spacetime region R; and when R is globally hyperbolic with Cauchy surface Sigma, S(R) can be interpreted as the entropy of the reduced density-matrix belonging to Sigma. One acquires in particular a new expression for the entropy of entanglement across an event-horizon. Thanks to its spacetime character, this expression makes sense in a causal set as well as in a continuum spacetime.

id: 1205.2970
title: Strongly separated pairs of core electrons in computed ground states of small molecules
authors: Alex D. Gottlieb, Rada M. Weishaeupl
comments: To appear in Computational and Theoretical Chemistry
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2970
abstract: We have performed full configuration interaction computations of the ground states of the molecules Be, BeH_2, Li, LiH, B, and BH and verified that the core electrons constitute "separated electron pairs." These separated pairs of core electrons have nontrivial structure; the core pair does not simply occupy a single spatial orbital. Our method of establishing the presence of separated electron pairs is direct and conclusive. We do not fit a separated pair model; we work with the wavefunctions of interest directly. To establish that a given group of spin-orbitals contains a quasi-separated pair, we verify by direct computation that the quantum state of the electrons that occupy those spin-orbitals is nearly a pure 2-electron state.

id: 1205.3017
title: Dressed-state amplification by a superconducting qubit
authors: G. Oelsner, P. Macha, O. V. Astafiev, E. Il'ichev, M. Grajcar, U. H¨¹bner, B. I. Ivanov, P. Neilinger, H.-G. Meyer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 110, 053602 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3017
abstract: We demonstrate amplification of a microwave signal by a strongly driven two-level system in a coplanar waveguide resonator. The effect known from optics as dressed-state lasing is observed with a single quantum system formed by a persistent current (flux) qubit. The transmission through the resonator is enhanced when the Rabi frequency of the driven qubit is tuned into resonance with one of the resonator modes. Amplification as well as linewidth narrowing of a weak probe signal has been observed. The laser emission at the resonator's fundamental mode has been studied by measuring the emission spectrum. We analyzed our system and found an excellent agreement between the experimental results and the theoretical predictions obtained in the dressed-state model.

id: 1205.3019
title: Fuzzy Topology, Quantization and Gauge Invariance
authors: S. N. Mayburov
comments: 12 pages, Talk given on 'Geometry and Field Theory' conference, Porto, July 2012. To be published in Int. J. Theor. Phys. (2015)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3019
abstract: Dodson-Zeeman fuzzy topology considered as the possible mathematical framework of quantum geometric formalism. In such formalism the states of massive particle m correspond to elements of fuzzy manifold called fuzzy points. Due to their weak (partial) ordering, m space coordinate x acquires principal uncertainty dx. It's shown that m evolution with minimal number of additional assumptions obeys to schroedinger and dirac formalisms in norelativistic and relativistic cases correspondingly. It's argued that particle's interactions on such fuzzy manifold should be gauge invariant.

id: 1205.3083
title: On the phase transition of light in cavity QED lattices
authors: M. Schir¨®, M. Bordyuh, B. ?ztop, H. E. T¨¹reci
comments: 5+3 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 053601 (2012)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3083
abstract: Systems of strongly interacting atoms and photons, that can be realized wiring up individual cavity QED systems into lattices, are perceived as a new platform for quantum simulation. While sharing important properties with other systems of interacting quantum particles here we argue that the nature of light-matter interaction gives rise to unique features with no analogs in condensed matter or atomic physics setups. By discussing the physics of a lattice model of delocalized photons coupled locally with two-level systems through the elementary light-matter interaction described by the Rabi model, we argue that the inclusion of counter rotating terms, so far neglected, is crucial to stabilize finite-density quantum phases of correlated photons out of the vacuum, with no need for an artificially engineered chemical potential. We show that the competition between photon delocalization and Rabi non-linearity drives the system across a novel $Z_2$ parity symmetry-breaking quantum criticality between two gapped phases which shares similarities with the Dicke transition of quantum optics and the Ising critical point of quantum magnetism. We discuss the phase diagram as well as the low-energy excitation spectrum and present analytic estimates for critical quantities.

id: 1205.3106
title: Multimode circuit optomechanics near the quantum limit
authors: Francesco Massel, Sung Un Cho, Juha-Matti Pirkkalainen, Pertti J. Hakonen, Tero T. Heikkil?, Mika A. Sillanp??
comments: 6+7 pages
journal: Nature Communications 3, 987 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3106
abstract: The coupling of distinct systems underlies nearly all physical phenomena and their applications. A basic instance is that of interacting harmonic oscillators, which gives rise to, for example, the phonon eigenmodes in a crystal lattice. Particularly important are the interactions in hybrid quantum systems consisting of different kinds of degrees of freedom. These assemblies can combine the benefits of each in future quantum technologies. Here, we investigate a hybrid optomechanical system having three degrees of freedom, consisting of a microwave cavity and two micromechanical beams with closely spaced frequencies around 32 MHz and no direct interaction. We record the first evidence of tripartite optomechanical mixing, implying that the eigenmodes are combinations of one photonic and two phononic modes. We identify an asymmetric dark mode having a long lifetime. Simultaneously, we operate the nearly macroscopic mechanical modes close to the motional quantum ground state, down to 1.8 thermal quanta, achieved by back-action cooling. These results constitute an important advance towards engineering entangled motional states.

id: 1205.3126
title: Comments on boundary driven open XXZ chain: asymmetric driving and uniqueness of steady states
authors: Tomaz Prosen
comments: Contribution for the comment section of Physica Scripta on the Nordita program "Foundations and Applications of Non-equilibrium Statistical Mechanics". v2: formulas (32) and (39) corrected w.r.t. published version (typos pointed out by Enej Ilievski and Bojan Zunkovic)
journal: Phys. Scr. 86 (2012) 058511
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3126
abstract: In this short note we provide two extensions on the recent explicit results on the matrix-product ansatz for the non-equilibrium steady state of a markovianly boundary-driven anisotropic Heisenberg XXZ spin 1/2 chain. We write a perturbative solution for the steady state density matrix in the system-batyh coupling for an arbitrary (asymmetric) set of four spin-flip rates at the two chain ends, generalizing the symmetric-driving ansatz of [Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 217206 (2011)]. Furthermore, we generalize the exact (non-perturbative) form of the steady state for just two Lindblad channels (spin-up flipping on the left, and spin-down flipping on the right) to an arbitrary (asymmetric) ratio of the spin flipping rates [Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 137201 (2011)]. In addition, we also indicate a simple proof of uniqueness of our steady states.

id: 1205.3151
title: The pinning quantum phase transition in a Tonks Girardeau gas: diagnostics by ground state fidelity and the Loschmidt echo
authors: K. Lelas, T. ?eva, H. Buljan, J. Goold
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033620 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3151
abstract: We study the pinning quantum phase transition in a Tonks-Girardeau gas, both in equilibrium and out-of-equilibrium, using the ground state fidelity and the Loschmidt echo as diagnostic tools. The ground state fidelity (GSF) will have a dramatic decrease when the atomic density approaches the commensurate density of one particle per lattice well. This decrease is a signature of the pinning transition from the Tonks to the Mott insulating phase. We study the applicability of the fidelity for diagnosing the pinning transition in experimentally realistic scenarios. Our results are in excellent agreement with recent experimental work. In addition, we explore the out of equilibrium dynamics of the gas following a sudden quench with a lattice potential. We find all properties of the ground state fidelity are reflected in the Loschmidt echo dynamics i.e., in the non equilibrium dynamics of the Tonks-Girardeau gas initiated by a sudden quench of the lattice potential.

id: 1205.3303
title: Quantum relaxation and finite size effects in the XY chain in a transverse field after global quenches
authors: B. Blass, H. Rieger, F. Igl¨®i
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 99, 30004 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3303
abstract: We consider global quenches in the quantum XY chain in a transverse field and study the nonequilibrium relaxation of the magnetization and the correlation function as well as the entanglement entropy in finite systems. For quenches in the ordered phase, the exact results are well described by a semiclassical theory (SCT) in terms of ballistically moving quasiparticles. In the thermodynamic limit the SCT is exact for the entanglement entropy and its modified version following the method of Calabrese, Essler and Fagotti: arXiv:1204.3911 is exact for the magnetization and the correlation function, too. The stationary correlation function is shown to be described by a generalized Gibbs ensemble.

id: 1205.3307
title: Spatio-temporal vortex beams and angular momentum
authors: Konstantin Y. Bliokh, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033824 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3307
abstract: We present a space-time generalization of the known spatial (monochromatic) wave vortex beams carrying intrinsic orbital angular momentum (OAM) along the propagation direction. Generic spatio-temporal vortex beams are polychromatic and can carry intrinsic OAM at an arbitrary angle to the mean momentum. Applying either (i) a transverse wave-vector shift or (ii) a Lorentz boost to a monochromatic Bessel beam, we construct a family of either (i) time-diffracting or (ii) non-diffracting spatio-temporal Bessel beams, which are exact solutions of the Klein-Gordon wave equations. The proposed spatio-temporal OAM states are able to describe either photon or electron vortex states (both relativistic and nonrelativistic), and can find applications in particle collisions, optics of moving media, quantum communications, and astrophysics.

id: 1205.3310
title: Planar Difference Functions
authors: Joanne L. Hall, Asha Rao, Diane Donovan
comments: Accepted to ISIT2012. v2 added a reference and adjusted margins
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3310
abstract: In 1980 Alltop produced a family of cubic phase sequences that nearly meet the Welch bound for maximum non-peak correlation magnitude. This family of sequences were shown by Wooters and Fields to be useful for quantum state tomography. Alltop's construction used a function that is not planar, but whose difference function is planar. In this paper we show that Alltop type functions cannot exist in fields of characteristic 3 and that for a known class of planar functions, $x^3$ is the only Alltop type function.

id: 1205.3330
title: Complex Trajectories in a Classical Periodic Potential
authors: Alexander G. Anderson, Carl M. Bender
comments: 14 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3330
abstract: This paper examines the complex trajectories of a classical particle in the potential V(x)=-cos(x). Almost all the trajectories describe a particle that hops from one well to another in an erratic fashion. However, it is shown analytically that there are two special classes of trajectories x(t) determined only by the energy of the particle and not by the initial position of the particle. The first class consists of periodic trajectories; that is, trajectories that return to their initial position x(0) after some real time T. The second class consists of trajectories for which there exists a real time T such that $x(t+T)=x(t) \pm2 \pi$. These two classes of classical trajectories are analogous to valence and conduction bands in quantum mechanics, where the quantum particle either remains localized or else tunnels resonantly (conducts) through a crystal lattice. These two special types of trajectories are associated with sets of energies of measure 0. For other energies, it is shown that for long times the average velocity of the particle becomes a fractal-like function of energy.

id: 1205.3333
title: On the Stability of Coherent States for Pais-Uhlenbeck Oscillator
authors: Souvik Pramanik, Subir Ghosh
comments: Title changed, modified version with no major change in results and conclusions, to appear in Mod.Phys.Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3333
abstract: We have constructed coherent states for the higher derivative Pais-Uhlenbeck Oscillator. In the process we have suggested a novel way to construct coherent states for the oscillator having only negative energy levels. These coherent states have negative energies in general but their coordinate and momentum expectation values and dispersions behave in an identical manner as that of normal (positive energy) oscillator. The coherent states for the Pais-Uhlenbeck Oscillator have constant dispersions and a modified Heisenberg Uncertainty Relation. Moreover, under reasonable assumptions on parameters these coherent states can have positive energies.

id: 1205.3353
title: The Josephson heat interferometer
authors: F. Giazotto, M. J. Martinez-Perez
comments: 4+ pages, 3 color figures
journal: Nature 492, 401 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3353
abstract: The Josephson effect represents perhaps the prototype of macroscopic phase coherence and is at the basis of the most widespread interferometer, i.e., the superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID). Yet, in analogy to electric interference, Maki and Griffin predicted in 1965 that thermal current flowing through a temperature-biased Josephson tunnel junction is a stationary periodic function of the quantum phase difference between the superconductors. The interplay between quasiparticles and Cooper pairs condensate is at the origin of such phase-dependent heat current, and is unique to Josephson junctions. In this scenario, a temperature-biased SQUID would allow heat currents to interfere thus implementing the thermal version of the electric Josephson interferometer. The dissipative character of heat flux makes this coherent phenomenon not less extraordinary than its electric (non-dissipative) counterpart. Albeit weird, this striking effect has never been demonstrated so far. Here we report the first experimental realization of a heat interferometer. We investigate heat exchange between two normal metal electrodes kept at different temperatures and tunnel-coupled to each other through a thermal `modulator' in the form of a DC-SQUID. Heat transport in the system is found to be phase dependent, in agreement with the original prediction. With our design the Josephson heat interferometer yields magnetic-flux-dependent temperature oscillations of amplitude up to ~21 mK, and provides a flux-to-temperature transfer coefficient exceeding ~ 60mK/Phi_0 at 235 mK [Phi_0 2* 10^(-15) Wb is the flux quantum]. Besides offering remarkable insight into thermal transport in Josephson junctions, our results represent a significant step toward phase-coherent mastering of heat in solid-state nanocircuits, and pave the way to the design of novel-concept coherent caloritronic devices.

id: 1205.3354
title: Photon-photon interaction in structured QED vacuum
authors: K. Z. Hatsagortsyan, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics: Conference Series 15, 22 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3354
abstract: In spatially structured strong laser fields, quantum electrodynamical vacuum behaves like a nonlinear Kerr medium with modulated third-order susceptibility where new coherent nonlinear effects arise due to modulation. We consider the enhancement of vacuum polarization and magnetization via coherent spatial vacuum effects in the photon-photon interaction process during scattering of a probe laser beam on parallel focused laser beams. Both processes of elastic and inelastic four wave-mixing in structured QED vacuum accompanied with Bragg interference are investigated. The phase-matching conditions and coherent effects in the presence of Bragg grating are analyzed for photon-photon scattering.

id: 1205.3363
title: An algorithm for the optical equivalence theorem
authors: Marco Ornigotti, Andrea Aiello, Gerd Leuchs
comments: The paper has been withdrawn by the author because it will be significantly reconsidered for submissions to peer-reviewed journals
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3363
abstract: A coherent state representation of the expectation value of an arbitrary (but still polynomial) normal ordered quantum operator is discussed. This serves as a basis for developing a fast and easy-to-handle algorithm, based on series of Hermite polynomials, for calculating such quantities. The case of single mode field with number, coherent and squeezed states is treated in detail. Some hints on how to extend the algorithm to multimode fields are also given.

id: 1205.3444
title: Symbolic Solution for Generalized Quantum Cylindrical Wells using Computer Algebra
authors: Edward Yesid Villegas
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, conference
journal: Proceedings of the 2008 International Conference on Scientific Computing, CSC 2008, 57-63
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3444
abstract: This paper present how to solve the problem of cylindrical quantum wells with potential energy different from zero and with singularity of the energy on the axis of the cylinder. The solution to the problem was obtained using methods of computer algebra. The results depend of Bessel and Kummer functions. This paper present energy levels and wave functions in some of the cases with an exactly form and in other cases with an approximated form, this form depended on the possibility of integrating the special functions and calculating the zeros of these functions. Here we can see the power of the method in the applications concerning complex problems of quantum mechanics, and the possibility of being able to apply this method in order to solve other problems in science and also in engineering.

id: 1205.3511
title: Second Josephson excitations beyond mean field as a toy model for thermal pressure: exact quantum dynamics and the quantum phase model
authors: M. P. Strzys, J. R. Anglin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. T 151, 014046 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3511
abstract: A simple four-mode Bose-Hubbard model with intrinsic time scale separation can be considered as a paradigm for mesoscopic quantum systems in thermal contact. In our previous work we showed that in addition to coherent particle exchange, a novel slow collective excitation can be identified by a series of Holstein-Primakoff transformations. This resonant energy exchange mode is not predicted by linear Bogoliubov theory, and its frequency is sensitive to interactions among Bogoliubov quasi-particles; it may be referred to as a second Josephson oscillation, in analogy to the second sound mode of liquid Helium II. In this paper we will explore this system beyond the Gross-Pitaevskii mean field regime. We directly compare the classical mean field dynamics to the exact full quantum many-particle dynamics and show good agreement over a large range of the system parameters. The second Josephson frequency becomes imaginary for stronger interactions, however, indicating dynamical instability of the symmetric state. By means of a generalized quantum phase model for the full four-mode system, we then show that, in this regime, high-energy Bogoliubov quasiparticles tend to accumulate in one pair of sites, while the actual particles preferentially occupy the opposite pair. We interpret this as a simple model for thermal pressure.

id: 1205.3708
title: Extending the Concept of Probability Flux
authors: Douglas J. Mason, Mario F. Borunda, Eric J. Heller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3708
abstract: We develop the Husimi map for visualizing quantum wavefunctions using coherent states as a measurement of the local phase space to produce a vector field related to the probability flux. Adapted from the Husimi projection, the Husimi map is complimentary to the usual flux map, since they are identical for small coherent states. By improving our understanding of the flux operator and offering a robust and flexible alternative, we show how the Husimi projection can provide a map to the classical dynamics underlying a quantum wavefunction. We demonstrate its capabilities on bound systems with electromagnetic fields, as well as on open systems on and off resonance.

id: 1205.3773
title: Pitfalls of Path Integrals: Amplitudes for Spacetime Regions and the Quantum Zeno Effect
authors: J.J.Halliwell, J.M.Yearsley
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 86, 024016 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3773
abstract: Path integrals appear to offer natural and intuitively appealing methods for defining quantum-mechanical amplitudes for questions involving spacetime regions. For example, the amplitude for entering a spatial region during a given time interval is typically defined by summing over all paths between given initial and final points but restricting them to pass through the region at any time. We argue that there is, however, under very general conditions, a significant complication in such constructions. This is the fact that the concrete implementation of the restrictions on paths over an interval of time corresponds, in an operator language, to sharp monitoring at every moment of time in the given time interval. Such processes suffer from the quantum Zeno effect - the continual monitoring of a quantum system in a Hilbert subspace prevents its state from leaving that subspace. As a consequence, path integral amplitudes defined in this seemingly obvious way have physically and intuitively unreasonable properties and in particular, no sensible classical limit. In this paper we describe this frequently-occurring but little-appreciated phenomenon in some detail, showing clearly the connection with the quantum Zeno effect. We then show that it may be avoided by implementing the restriction on paths in the path integral in a "softer" way. The resulting amplitudes then involve a new coarse graining parameter, which may be taken to be a timescale \epsilon, describing the softening of the restrictions on the paths. We argue that the complications arising from the Zeno effect are then negligible as long as \epsilon >> 1/ E, where E is the energy scale of the incoming state.

id: 1205.3903
title: Exact Solutions of the Morse-like Potential, Step-Up and Step-Down Operators via Laplace Transform Approach
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 8 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 58, 27 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3903
abstract: We intend to realize the step-up and step-down operators of the potential $V(x)=V_{1}e^{2\beta x}+V_{2}e^{\beta x}$. It is found that these operators satisfy the commutation relations for the SU(2) group. We find the eigenfunctions and the eigenvalues of the potential by using the Laplace transform approach to study the Lie algebra satisfied the ladder operators of the potential under consideration. Our results are similar to the ones obtained for the Morse potential ($\beta \rightarrow -\beta$).

id: 1205.3927
title: Cold atom guidance in a capillary using blue-detuned, hollow optical modes
authors: Joseph A. Pechkis, Fredrik K. Fatemi
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures. Accepted for publication in Optics Express
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3927
abstract: We demonstrate guiding of cold 85Rb atoms through a 100-micron-diameter hollow core dielectric waveguide using cylindrical hollow modes. We have transported atoms using blue-detuned light in the 1st order, azimuthally-polarized TE01 hollow mode, and the 2nd order hollow modes (HE31, EH11, and HE12), and compared these results with guidance in the red-detuned, fundamental HE11 mode. The blue-detuned hollow modes confine atoms to low intensity along the capillary axis, far from the walls. We determine scattering rates in the guides by directly measuring the effect of recoil on the atoms. We observe higher atom numbers guided using red-detuned light in the HE11 mode, but a 10-fold reduction in scattering rate using the 2nd order modes, which have an r^4 radial intensity profile to lowest order. We show that the red-detuned guides can be used to load atoms into the blue-detuned modes when both high atom number and low perturbation are desired.

id: 1205.3938
title: Theory of the strong coupling between quantum emitters and propagating surface plasmons
authors: A. Gonzalez-Tudela, P. A. Huidobro, L. Martin-Moreno, C. Tejedor, F.J. Garcia-Vidal
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 126801 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3938
abstract: Here we present the theoretical foundation of the strong coupling phenomenon between quantum emitters and propagating surface plasmons observed in two-dimensional metal surfaces. For that purpose, we develop an ab-initio quantum framework that accounts for the coherent coupling be- tween emitters and surface plasmons and incorporates the presence of dissipation and dephasing. For both a single emitter and a disordered ensemble of emitters, our formalism is able to reveal the key physical mechanisms that explain the reported phenomenology and also to determine the physical parameters that optimize the strong coupling.

id: 1205.3940
title: New Directions in Categorical Logic, for Classical, Probabilistic and Quantum Logic
authors: Bart Jacobs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Logic (math.LO); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3940
abstract: Intuitionistic logic, in which the double negation law not-not-P = P fails, is dominant in categorical logic, notably in topos theory. This paper follows a different direction in which double negation does hold. The algebraic notions of effect algebra/module that emerged in theoretical physics form the cornerstone. It is shown that under mild conditions on a category, its maps of the form X -> 1+1 carry such effect module structure, and can be used as predicates. Predicates are dentified in many different situations, and capture for instance ordinary subsets, fuzzy predicates in a probabilistic setting, idempotents in a ring, and effects (positive elements below the unit) in a C*-algebra or Hilbert space. In quantum foundations the duality between states and effects plays an important role. It appears here in the form of an adjunction, where we use maps 1 -> X as states. For such a state s and a predicate p, the validity probability s |= p is defined, as an abstract Born rule. It captures many forms of (Boolean or probabilistic) validity known from the literature. Measurement from quantum mechanics is formalised categorically in terms of `instruments', using L"uders rule in the quantum case. These instruments are special maps ssociated with predicates (more generally, with tests), which perform the act of measurement and may have a side-effect that disturbs the system under observation. This abstract description of side-effects is one of the main achievements of the current approach. It is shown that in the special case of C*-algebras, side-effect appear exclusively in the non-commutative case. Also, these instruments are used for test operators in a dynamic logic that can be used for reasoning about quantum programs/protocols. The paper describes four successive assumptions, towards a categorical axiomatisation of quantitative logic for probabilistic and quantum systems.

id: 1205.3942
title: Quantum harmonic oscillator for dipoles
authors: Cleverson Filgueiras, D. Cogollo, E. O. Silva
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to a crucial approximation error in the first order approximation of the equation (4)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3942
abstract: In this work we investigate which radial field configuration yields bound states for neutral particles showing non-zero magnetic and electric dipole moments. The main result is that, in contrast with previous works, the Landau analog levels only exist if these radial magnetic and electric external fields are proportional to the third power of distance, not proportional to the distance. We derive the wave functions and the energy levels in the context of commutative and non-commutative quantum mechanics. We also show that, in the case of non-commutative phase space, these harmonic oscillator like spectrum do exist even if there is no external radial magnetic and electric fields. They are only consequence of the non-commutativity in the momenta.

id: 1205.4072
title: Suppressing On-Chip EM Crosstalk for Spin Qubit Devices
authors: S. Blanvillain, J. I. Colless, D. J. Reilly, H. Lu, A. C. Gossard
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4072
abstract: We report the development and performance of on-chip interconnects designed to suppress electromagnetic (EM) crosstalk in spin qubit device architectures with the large number of gate electrodes needed for multi- qubit operation. Our design improves the performance of typical device interconnects via the use of minia- turised ohmic contacts and interspersed ground guards. Low temperature measurements and numerical simulation confirm that control and readout signal crosstalk can be suppressed to levels of order 1%, from dc to 1 GHz.

id: 1205.4128
title: Detection and control of individual nuclear spins using a weakly coupled electron spin
authors: T. H. Taminiau, J. J. T. Wagenaar, T. van der Sar, F. Jelezko, V. V. Dobrovitski, R. Hanson
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 137602 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4128
abstract: We experimentally isolate, characterize and coherently control up to six individual nuclear spins that are weakly coupled to an electron spin in diamond. Our method employs multi-pulse sequences on the electron spin that resonantly amplify the interaction with a selected nuclear spin and at the same time dynamically suppress decoherence caused by the rest of the spin bath. We are able to address nuclear spins with interaction strengths that are an order of magnitude smaller than the electron spin dephasing rate. Our results provide a route towards tomography with single-nuclear-spin sensitivity and greatly extend the number of available quantum bits for quantum information processing in diamond.

id: 1205.4185
title: Classify Symmetry-Protected Topological Orders for Holographic Conformal Field Theories
authors: Shih-Hao Ho, Feng-Li Lin
comments: 30 pages, 2 figures, 6 tables; v2 the results in section 4 are refined;v3 title changed, sec. I & II rewritten to straighten the logics of presentation but the main conclusion remains the same
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4185
abstract: In the context of AdS/CFT correspondence, we propose how to define the (symmetry-protected) topological orders for the holographic conformal field theories (CFTs) via the non-normalizable modes of the anti-de Sitter (AdS) bulk fields. To be specific, we consider the sector of the CFTs which is dual to the multi-flavor massive free fermions in AdS space. We demonstrate that the classification of the topological edge modes on the AdS boundary can be done by classifying the symmetry-protected topological orders of the same fermion system in Minkowski space. We then apply Kitaev's K-theory analysis to classifying the symmetry-protected topological orders as done for usual topological insulators/superconductors. The results are translated into the ones for the holographic CFTs. Our proposal goes beyond the usual classification scheme of topological orders for the gapped systems.

id: 1205.4186
title: Self-Organization Threshold Scaling for Thermal Atoms Coupled to a Cavity
authors: K. J. Arnold, M. P. Baden, M. D. Barrett
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 153002 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4186
abstract: We make a detailed experimental study of the threshold for the self-organization of thermal 87Rb atoms coupled to a high-finesse cavity over a range of atom numbers and cavity detunings. We investigate the difference between probing with a traveling wave and a retroreflected lattice. These two scenarios lead to qualitatively different behavior in terms of the response of the system as a function of cavity detuning with respect to the probe. In both cases, we confirm a N-1 scaling of the threshold with atom number.

id: 1205.4272
title: Mechanical control of a microrod-resonator optical frequency comb
authors: Scott B. Papp, Pascal Del'Haye, Scott A. Diddams
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4272
abstract: Robust control and stabilization of optical frequency combs enables an extraordinary range of scientific and technological applications, including frequency metrology at extreme levels of precision, novel spectroscopy of quantum gases and of molecules from visible wavelengths to the far infrared, searches for exoplanets, and photonic waveform synthesis. Here we report on the stabilization of a microresonator-based optical comb (microcomb) by way of mechanical actuation. This represents an important step in the development of microcomb technology, which offers a pathway toward fully-integrated comb systems. Residual fluctuations of our 32.6 GHz microcomb line spacing reach a record stability level of $5\times10^{-15}$ for 1 s averaging, thereby highlighting the potential of microcombs to support modern optical frequency standards. Furthermore, measurements of the line spacing with respect to an independent frequency reference reveal the effective stabilization of different spectral slices of the comb with a $<$0.5 mHz variation among 140 comb lines spanning 4.5 THz. These experiments were performed with newly-developed microrod resonators, which were fabricated using a CO$_2$-laser-machining technique.

id: 1205.4323
title: Massless Particles in QFT from Algebras without Involution
authors: Glenn Eric Johnson
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4323
abstract: The explicit realizations of quantum field theory (QFT) admitted by a revision to the Wightman axioms for the vacuum expectation values (VEV) of fields includes massless particles when there are four or more spacetime dimensions.

id: 1205.4374
title: Chaotic scattering of atoms at a standing laser wave
authors: S.V. Prants
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1201.0323
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4374
abstract: Atoms, propagating across a detuned standing laser wave, can be scattered in a chaotic way even in the absence of spontaneous emission and any modulation of the laser field. Spontaneous emission masks the effect in some degree, but the Monte Carlo simulation shows that it can be observed in real experiments by the absorption imaging method or depositing atoms on a substrate. The effect of chaotic scattering is explained by a specific behavior of the dipole moments of atoms crossing the field nodes and is shown to depend strongly on the value of the atom-laser detuning.

id: 1205.4393
title: Quantum correlations in nanostructured two-impurity Kondo systems
authors: Marco Nizama, Diego Frustaglia, Karen Hallberg
comments: Submitted for publication. 8 pages, 4 figures. Revised version
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4393
abstract: We study the ground-state entanglement properties of nanostructured Kondo systems consisting of a pair of impurity spins coupled to a background of confined electrons. The competition between the RKKY-like coupling and the Kondo effect determines the development of quantum correlations between the different parts of the system. A key element is the electronic filling due to confinement. An even electronic filling leads to results similar to those found previously for extended systems, where the properties of the reduced impurity-spin subsystem are uniquely determined by the spin correlation function defining a one-dimensional phase space. An odd filling, instead, breaks spin-rotation symmetry unfolding a two-dimensional phase space showing rich entanglement characteristics as, e.g., the requirement of a larger amount of entanglement for the development of non-local correlations between impurity spins. We check these results by numerical simulations of elliptic quantum corrals with magnetic impurities at the foci as a case study.

id: 1205.4401
title: Coherent states for polynomial su(1,1) algebra and a conditionally solvable system
authors: Muhammad Sadiq, Akira Inomata, Georg Junker
comments: 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 42 (2009) 365210
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4401
abstract: In a previous paper [{\it J. Phys. A: Math. Theor.} {\bf 40} (2007) 11105], we constructed a class of coherent states for a polynomially deformed $su(2)$ algebra. In this paper, we first prepare the discrete representations of the nonlinearly deformed $su(1,1)$ algebra. Then we extend the previous procedure to construct a discrete class of coherent states for a polynomial su(1,1) algebra which contains the Barut-Girardello set and the Perelomov set of the SU(1,1) coherent states as special cases. We also construct coherent states for the cubic algebra related to the conditionally solvable radial oscillator problem.

id: 1205.4408
title: About disposition of energy levels
authors: Evgeny Z. Liverts, Nir Nevo Dinur
comments: 10 pages, 3 tables
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 475301
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4408
abstract: The unique properties of central potential of the form $-\beta e^{-r}r^{\gamma}$ were studied using the recently developed critical parameter technique. The particular cases of $\gamma=0$ and $\gamma=-1$ yield, respectively, the exponential and Yukawa potentials widely used in the atomic, molecular and nuclear physics. We found different behavior of the energy levels of this potential for three different ranges of the value of $\gamma$. For $\gamma\geq0$ it was found that the energy of bound states with the same principal quantum number $N$ decreases with increasing angular momentum $\ell$. The Gaussian and Woods-Saxon potentials also show this behavior. On the contrary, for $-2\leq\gamma\leq-1$ increasing $\ell$ gives a higher energy, resembling the Hulthen potential. However, a potential with $-1<\gamma<0$ possesses mixed properties, which give rise to several interesting results. For one, the order of energy levels with different quantum numbers is not preserved when varying the parameter $\beta$. This leads to a quantum degeneracy of the states, and in fact, for a given value of $\gamma$ we can find the values $\beta_{thr}$ for which two energy levels with different quantum numbers coincide. Another interesting phenomena is the possibility, for some values of $\gamma$ in this range, for two new energy levels with different quantum numbers to appear simultaneously when $\beta$ reaches their common critical value.

id: 1205.4425
title: Universal spectral behavior of $x^2(ix)^¦Å$ potentials
authors: Carl M. Bender, Daniel W. Hook
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4425
abstract: The PT-symmetric Hamiltonian $H=p^2+x^2(ix)^\epsilon$ ($\epsilon$ real) exhibits a phase transition at $\epsilon=0$. When $\epsilon\geq0$, the eigenvalues are all real, positive, discrete, and grow as $\epsilon$ increases. However, when $\epsilon<0$ there are only a finite number of real eigenvalues. As $\epsilon$ approaches -1 from above, the number of real eigenvalues decreases to one, and this eigenvalue becomes infinite at $\epsilon=-1$. In this paper it is shown that these qualitative spectral behaviors are generic and that they are exhibited by the eigenvalues of the general class of Hamiltonians $H^{(2n)}=p^{2n}+x^2(ix)^\epsilon$ ($\epsilon$ real, n=1, 2, 3, ...). The complex classical behaviors of these Hamiltonians are also examined.

id: 1205.4428
title: Interference effects in the reradiation of ultrashort electromagnetic pulses
authors: V.I. Matveev, D.U. Matrasulov
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4428
abstract: Reradiation of a spatially non-uniform ultrashort electromagnetic pulse interacting with the linear chain of multielectron atoms is studied in the framework of sudden perturbation approximation. Angular distributions of the reradiation spectrum for arbitrary number of atoms are obtained. It is shown that interference effects for the photon radiation amplitudes lead to appearing of "diffraction" maximums. The obtained results can be extended to the case of two- and three-dimensional crystal lattices and atomic chains. The approach developed allows also to take into account thermal vibrations of the lattice atoms.

id: 1205.4448
title: A unified approach to mode splitting and scattering loss in high-Q whispering-gallery-mode microresonators
authors: Qing Li, Ali A. Eftekhar, Zhixuan Xia, Ali Adibi
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4448
abstract: Current theoretical treatment of mode splitting and scattering loss resulting from sub-wavelength scatterers attached to the surface of high-quality-factor whispering-gallery-mode microresonators is not satisfactory. Different models have been proposed for two distinct scatterer regimes, i.e., a-few- and many-scatterers. In addition, many experimental results seem difficult to understand within the existing theoretical framework. Here we develop a unified approach that applies to an arbitrary number of scatterers, which reveals the applicable conditions and the limits of the existing theoretical models. Moreover, many new understandings on mode splitting and scattering loss have been achieved, which are supported by numerical and experimental evidences. Such a unified approach is essential for the fundamental studies as well as the practical applications of mode splitting and scattering loss in high-quality-factor whispering-gallery-mode microresonators.

id: 1205.4449
title: Phase Space Approach to Laser-driven Electronic Wavepacket Propagation
authors: Norio Takemoto, Asaf Shimshovitz, David J. Tannor
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. The following article has been submitted to the Journal of Chemical Physics. After it is published, it will be found at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4449
abstract: We propose a phase space method to propagate a quantum wavepacket driven by a strong external field. The method employs the so-called biorthogonal von Neumann basis recently introduced for the calculation of the energy eigenstates of time-independent quantum systems [A. Shimshovitz and D.J. Tannor, arXiv:1201.2299v1]. While the individual elements in this basis set are time-independent, a small subset is chosen in a time-dependent manner to adapt to the evolution of the wavepacket in phase space. We demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of the present propagation method by calculating the electronic wavepacket in a one-dimensional soft-core atom interacting with a superposition of an intense, few-cycle, near-infrared laser pulse and an attosecond extreme-ultraviolet laser pulse.

id: 1205.4475
title: Quantum Spring
authors: Chao-Jun Feng, Xin-Zhou Li
comments: Contribution to the proceedings of the 2011 Shanghai Asia-Pacific School and Workshop on Gravitation; 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. Conf. Ser. 07, 165 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4475
abstract: In this paper, we will give a short review on \textit{quantum spring}, which is a Casimir effect from the helix boundary condition that proposed in our earlier works. The Casimir force parallel to the axis of the helix behaves very much like the force on a spring that obeys the Hooke's law when the ratio $r$ of the pitch to the circumference of the helix is small, but in this case, the force comes from a quantum effect, so we would like to call it \textit{quantum spring}. On the other hand, the force perpendicular to the axis decreases monotonically with the increasing of the ratio $r$. Both forces are attractive and their behaviors are the same in two and three dimensions.

id: 1205.4484
title: Hypercontractivity, Sum-of-Squares Proofs, and their Applications
authors: Boaz Barak, Fernando G.S.L. Brand?o, Aram W. Harrow, Jonathan A. Kelner, David Steurer, Yuan Zhou
comments: v1: 52 pages. v2: 53 pages, fixed small bugs in proofs of section 6 (on UG integrality gaps) and section 7 (on 2->4 norm of random matrices). Added comments about real-vs-complex random matrices and about the k-extendable vs k-extendable & PPT hierarchies. v3: fixed mistakes in random matrix section. The result now holds only for matrices with random entries instead of random columns
journal: Proc. STOC 2012, pp. 307--326
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4484
abstract: We study the computational complexity of approximating the 2->q norm of linear operators (defined as ||A||_{2->q} = sup_v ||Av||_q/||v||_2), as well as connections between this question and issues arising in quantum information theory and the study of Khot's Unique Games Conjecture (UGC). We show the following: 1. For any constant even integer q>=4, a graph $G$ is a "small-set expander" if and only if the projector into the span of the top eigenvectors of G's adjacency matrix has bounded 2->q norm. As a corollary, a good approximation to the 2->q norm will refute the Small-Set Expansion Conjecture--a close variant of the UGC. We also show that such a good approximation can be obtained in exp(n^(2/q)) time, thus obtaining a different proof of the known subexponential algorithm for Small Set Expansion. 2. Constant rounds of the "Sum of Squares" semidefinite programing hierarchy certify an upper bound on the 2->4 norm of the projector to low-degree polynomials over the Boolean cube, as well certify the unsatisfiability of the "noisy cube" and "short code" based instances of Unique Games considered by prior works. This improves on the previous upper bound of exp(poly log n) rounds (for the "short code"), as well as separates the "Sum of Squares"/"Lasserre" hierarchy from weaker hierarchies that were known to require omega(1) rounds. 3. We show reductions between computing the 2->4 norm and computing the injective tensor norm of a tensor, a problem with connections to quantum information theory. Three corollaries are: (i) the 2->4 norm is NP-hard to approximate to precision inverse-polynomial in the dimension, (ii) the 2->4 norm does not have a good approximation (in the sense above) unless 3-SAT can be solved in time exp(sqrt(n) polylog(n)), and (iii) known algorithms for the quantum separability problem imply a non-trivial additive approximation for the 2->4 norm.

id: 1205.4504
title: Generalized Complex Spherical Harmonics, Frame Functions, and Gleason Theorem
authors: Valter Moretti, Davide Pastorello
comments: 9 pages, Accepted for publication in Ann. H. Poincar\'e
journal: Annales Henri Poincare 14 (2013) 1435
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4504
abstract: Consider a finite dimensional complex Hilbert space $\cH$, with $dim(\cH) \geq 3$, define $\bS(\cH):= \{x\in \cH \:|\: ||x||=1\}$, and let $\nu_\cH$ be the unique regular Borel positive measure invariant under the action of the unitary operators in $\cH$, with $\nu_\cH(\bS(\cH))=1$. We prove that if a complex frame function $f : \bS(\cH)\to \bC$ satisfies $f \in \cL^2(\bS(\cH), \nu_\cH)$, then it verifies Gleason's statement: There is a unique linear operator $A: \cH \to \cH$ such that $f(u) = < u| A u>$ for every $u \in \bS(\cH)$. $A$ is Hermitean when $f$ is real. No boundedness requirement is thus assumed on $f$ {\em a priori}.

id: 1205.4524
title: Homodyne detection of matter-wave fields (shortened)
authors: Stefan Rist, Giovanna Morigi
comments: shortened version of arXiv:1111.6390, to be published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053635 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4524
abstract: A scheme is discussed that allows one for performing homodyne detection of the matter-wave field of ultracold bosonic atoms. It is based on a pump-probe lasers setup, that both illuminates a Bose-Einstein condensate, acting as reference system, and a second ultracold gas, composed by the same atoms but in a quantum phase to determine. Photon scattering outcouples atoms from both systems, which then propagate freely. Under appropriate conditions, when the same photon can either be scattered by the Bose-Einstein condensate or by the other quantum gas, both flux of outcoupled atoms and scattered photons exhibit oscillations, whose amplitude is proportional to the condensate fraction of the quantum gas. The setup can be extended to measure the first-order correlation function of a quantum gas. The dynamics here discussed make use of the entanglement between atoms and photons which is established by the scattering process in order to access detailed information on the quantum state of matter.

id: 1205.4533
title: Optical Control of Entangled States in Quantum Wells
authors: E. Rasanen, T. Blasi, M. F. Borunda, E. J. Heller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 205308 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4533
abstract: We present theory and calculations for coherent high-fidelity quantum control of many-particle states in semiconductor quantum wells. We show that coupling a two-electron double quantum dot to a terahertz optical source enables targeted excitations that are one to two orders of magnitude faster and significantly more accurate than those obtained with electric gates. The optical fields subject to physical constraints are obtained through quantum optimal control theory that we apply in conjunction with the numerically exact solution of the time-dependent Schrodinger equation. Our ability to coherently control arbitrary two-electron states, and to maximize the entanglement, opens up further perspectives in solid-state quantum information.

id: 1205.4536
title: Superfluid behaviour of a two-dimensional Bose gas
authors: R¨¦mi Desbuquois, Lauriane Chomaz, Tarik Yefsah, Julian L¨¦onard, J¨¦r?me Beugnon, Christof Weitenberg, Jean Dalibard
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Physics 8, 645 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4536
abstract: Two-dimensional (2D) systems play a special role in many-body physics. Because of thermal fluctuations, they cannot undergo a conventional phase transition associated to the breaking of a continuous symmetry. Nevertheless they may exhibit a phase transition to a state with quasi-long range order via the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless (BKT) mechanism. A paradigm example is the 2D Bose fluid, such as a liquid helium film, which cannot Bose-condense at non-zero temperature although it becomes superfluid above a critical phase space density. Ultracold atomic gases constitute versatile systems in which the 2D quasi-long range coherence and the microscopic nature of the BKT transition were recently explored. However, a direct observation of superfluidity in terms of frictionless flow is still missing for these systems. Here we probe the superfluidity of a 2D trapped Bose gas with a moving obstacle formed by a micron-sized laser beam. We find a dramatic variation of the response of the fluid, depending on its degree of degeneracy at the obstacle location. In particular we do not observe any significant heating in the central, highly degenerate region if the velocity of the obstacle is below a critical value.

id: 1205.4574
title: Geometric Phases generated by the non-trivial spatial topology of static vector fields coupled to a neutral spin-endowed particle. Application to 171Yb atoms trapped in a 2D optical lattice
authors: Marie-Anne Bouchiat, Claude Bouchiat
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures. Comments and one figure added about the effect of the additional scalar potential (sec. V.B). To be published in J. Phys. A:Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A:Math.Theor. 45 , 405307 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4574
abstract: We have constructed the geometric phases emerging from the non-trivial topology of a space-dependent magnetic field, interacting with the spin magnetic moment of a neutral particle. Our basic tool is the local unitary transformation which recasts the magnetic spin interaction under a diagonal form. Rewriting the kinetic term in the "rotated" frame requires the introduction of non-Abelian covariant derivatives, involving the gradients of the Euler angles which define the orientation of the local field. Within the rotated frame, we have built a perturbation scheme,assuming that the longitudinal non-Abelian field component dominates the transverse ones, to be evaluated to second-order. The geometry embedded in the longitudinal gauge vector field and its curl, the geometric magnetic field, is described by the associated Aharonov-Bohm phase. As an illustration, we study the physics of cold 171Yb atoms dressed by two sets of circularly polarized beams, forming square or triangular 2D optical lattices. The geometric field is computed explicitly from the Euler angles. The magnitude of 2nd-order corrections due to transverse fields can be reduced to the percent level by a choice of light intensity which keeps the dressed atom loss rate below 5 s^{-1}. An auxiliary optical lattice confines the atoms within 2D domains where the geometric field is pointing upward.

id: 1205.4602
title: Dipole-Dipole coupled double Rydberg molecules
authors: Martin Kiffner, Hyunwook Park, Wenhui Li, Tom F. Gallagher
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 031401(R) (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4602
abstract: We show that the dipole-dipole interaction between two Rydberg atoms can give rise to long range molecules. The binding potential arises from two states that converge to different separated atom asymptotes. These states interact weakly at large distances, but start to repel each other strongly as the van der Waals interaction turns into a resonant dipole-dipole interaction with decreasing separation between the atoms. This mechanism leads to the formation of an attractive well for one of the potentials. If the two separated atom asymptotes come from the small Stark splitting of an atomic Rydberg level, which lifts the Zeeman degeneracy, the depth of the well and the location of its minimum are controlled by the external electric field. We discuss two different geometries that result in a localized and a donut shaped potential, respectively.

id: 1205.4607
title: The Hilbert space of conditional clauses
authors: Charles Francis
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:gr-qc/0605127
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4607
abstract: In the absence of a satisfactory interpretation of quantum theory, physical law lacks physical basis. This paper reviews the orthodox, or Dirac-von Neumann interpretation, and makes explicit that Hilbert space describes propositions about measurement results. Kets are defined as conditional clauses referring to measurements in a formal language. It is seen that these clauses are elements of a Hilbert space, such that addition is logical disjunction, the dual space consists of consequent clauses, and the inner product is a set of statements in the subjunctive mood. The probability interpretation gives truth values for corresponding future tense statements when the initial state is actually prepared and the final state is to be measured. The mathematical structure of quantum mechanics is formulated in terms of discrete measurement results at finite level of accuracy and does not depend on an assumption of a substantive, or background, space-time continuum. A continuum of kets, |x> for x in R^3, is constructed from linear combinations of kets in a finite basis. The inner product can be expressed either as a finite sum or as an integral. Discrete position functions are uniquely embedded into smooth wave functions in such a way that differential operators are defined. It is shown that the choice of basis has no effect on underlying physics (quantum covariance). The Dirac delta has a representation as a smooth function. Operators do not in general have an integral form. The Schroedinger equation is shown from the requirements of the probability interpretation. It is remarked that a formal construction of qed avoiding divergence problems has been completed using finite dimensional Hilbert space. I conclude that quantum mechanics makes statements about the world with clear physical meaning, such that space is emergent from particle interactions and has no fundamental role.

id: 1205.4644
title: Tunable single-photon heat conduction in electrical circuits
authors: P. J. Jones, J. A. M. Huhtam?ki, M. Partanen, K. Y. Tan, M. M?tt?nen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4644
abstract: We build on the study of single-photon heat conduction in electronic circuits taking into account the back-action of the superconductor--insulator--normal-metal thermometers. In addition, we show that placing capacitors, resistors, and superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) into a microwave cavity can severely distort the spatial current profile which, in general, should be accounted for in circuit design. The introduction of SQUIDs also allows for in situ tuning of the photonic power transfer which could be utilized in experiments on superconducting quantum bits.

id: 1205.4652
title: Long Range Behaviour of van der Waals Force
authors: Ioannis Anapolitanos, Israel Michael Sigal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4652
abstract: We prove van der Waals - London's law of decay of the van der Waals force for a collection of neutral atoms at large separation.

id: 1205.4708
title: Emergence of spatial spin-wave correlations in a cold atomic gas
authors: Y. O. Dudin, F. Bariani, A. Kuzmich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4708
abstract: Rydberg spin waves are optically excited in a quasi-one-dimensional atomic sample of Rb atoms. Pair-wise spin-wave correlations are observed by a spatially selective transfer of the quantum state onto a light field and photoelectric correlation measurements of the light. The correlations are interpreted in terms of the dephasing of multiply-excited spin waves by long-range Rydberg interactions.

id: 1205.4850
title: Spin-chain description of fractional quantum Hall states in the Jain series
authors: Zheng-Yuan Wang, Shintaro Takayoshi, Masaaki Nakamura
comments: 8 pages and 3figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 155104 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4850
abstract: We discuss the relationship between fractional quantum Hall (FQH) states at filling factor $\nu=p/(2p+1)$ and quantum spin chains. This series corresponds to the Jain series $\nu=p/(2mp+1)$ with $m=1$ where the composite fermion picture is realized. We show that the FQH states with toroidal boundary conditions beyond the thin-torus limit can be mapped to effective quantum spin S=1 chains with $p$ spins in each unit cell. We calculate energy gaps and the correlation functions for both the FQH systems and the corresponding effective spin chains, using exact diagonalization and the infinite time-evolving block decimation (iTEBD) algorithm. We confirm that the mass gaps of these effective spin chains are decreased as $p$ is increased which is similar to $S=p$ integer Heisenberg chains. These results shed new light on a link between the hierarchy of FQH states and the Haldane conjecture for quantum spin chains.

id: 1205.4903
title: Thermal Issues in Casimir Forces Between Conductors and Semiconductors
authors: K. A. Milton, Iver Brevik, Simen A. Ellingsen
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, extended version of presentation at Frontiers of Quantum and Mesoscopic Thermodynamics, Prague, July 2011. Revision corrects some errors in references and minor typographic errors. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0605005
journal: Physica Scripta T151, 014070 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4903
abstract: The Casimir effect between metal surfaces has now been well-verified at the few-percent level experimentally. However, the temperature dependence has never been observed in the laboratory, since all experiments are conducted at room temperature. The temperature dependence for the related Casimir-Polder force between an atom and a bulk material has, in contrast, been observed between a BEC and a silica substrate, with the environment and the silica held at different temperatures. There is a controversy about the temperature dependence for the force between metals, having to do with the magnitude of the linear temperature term for both low and high temperature, the latter being most prominent at large distances. There are also related anomalies pertaining to semiconductors. The status of this controversy, and of the relevant experiments, are reviewed in this report.

id: 1205.4924
title: Brillouin-Wigner perturbation theory in open electromagnetic systems
authors: E. A. Muljarov, W. Langbein, R. Zimmermann
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhysics Letters 92, 50010 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4924
abstract: A Brillouin-Wigner perturbation theory is developed for open electromagnetic systems which are characterised by discrete resonant states with complex eigenenergies. Since these states are exponentially growing at large distances, a modified normalisation is introduced that allows a simple spectral representation of the Green's function. The perturbed modes are found by solving a linear eigenvalue problem in matrix form. The method is illustrated on exactly solvable one- and three-dimensional examples being, respectively, a dielectric slab and a microsphere.

id: 1205.4929
title: Optical angular momentum in dispersive media
authors: T. G. Philbin, O. Allanson
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86 (2012) 055802
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4929
abstract: The angular momentum density and flux of light in a dispersive, rotationally symmetric medium are derived from Noether's theorem. Optical angular momentum in a dispersive medium has no simple relation to optical linear momentum, even if the medium is homogeneous. A circularly polarized monochromatic beam in a homogeneous, dispersive medium carries a spin angular momentum of $\pm\hbar$ per energy $\hbar\omega$, as in vacuum. This result demonstrates the non-trivial interplay of dispersive contributions to optical angular momentum and energy.

id: 1205.4946
title: Condensation of Anyons in Frustrated Quantum Magnets
authors: Cristian D. Batista, Rolando D. Somma
comments: 5 pages and 3 Figs
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 227203 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4946
abstract: We derive the exact ground space of a family of spin-1/2 Heisenberg chains with uniaxial exchange anisotropy (XXZ) and interactions between nearest and next-nearest-neighbor spins. The Hamiltonian family, H(Q), is parametrized by a single variable Q. By using a generalized Jordan-Wigner transformation that maps spins into anyons, we show that the exact ground states of H(Q) correspond to a condensation of anyons with statistical phase phi=-4Q. We also provide matrix-product state representations of some ground states that allow for the efficient computation of spin-spin correlation functions.

id: 1205.4953
title: Finite-size effects in strongly interacting Rydberg gases
authors: M. G?rttner, K. P. Heeg, T. Gasenzer, J. Evers
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033422 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4953
abstract: The scaling of the number of Rydberg excitations in a laser-driven cloud of atoms with the interaction strength is found to be affected by the finite size of the system. The scaling predicted by a theoretical model is compared with results extracted from a numerical many-body simulation. We find that the numerically obtained scaling exponent in general does not agree with the analytical prediction. By individually testing the assumptions leading to the theoretical prediction using the results from the numerical analysis, we identify the origin of the deviations, and explain it as arising from the finite size of the system. Furthermore, finite-size effects in the pair correlation function $g^{(2)}$ are predicted. Finally, in larger ensembles, we find that the theoretical predictions and the numerical results agree, provided that the system is sufficiently homogeneous.

id: 1205.4977
title: LDPC for QKD Reconciliation
authors: Alan Mink, Anastase Nakassis
comments: 9 pages with Pseudo code and matrix correction performance
journal: 
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4977
abstract: We present the Low Density Parity Check (LDPC) forward error correction algorithm adapted for the Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) protocol in a form readily applied by developers. A sparse parity check matrix is required for the LDPC algorithm and we suggest using some that have been defined by the IEEE and ETSI standards organizations for use in various communication protocols. We evaluate the QKD performance of these various parity check matrices as a function of the quantum bit error rate. We also discuss the computational precision required for this LPDC algorithm. As QKD evolves towards deployment, complete algorithm descriptions and performance analysis, as we present, will be required.

id: 1205.4990
title: Classical and Quantum Chaos in the Diamond Shaped Billiard
authors: R. Salazar, G. T¨¦llez, D. Jaramillo, D. L. Gonz¨¢lez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4990
abstract: We analyse the classical and quantum behaviour of a particle trapped in a diamond shaped billiard. We defined this billiard as a half stadium connected with a triangular billiard. A parameter $\xi$ which gradually change the shape of the billiard from a regular equilateral triangle ($\xi=1$) to a diamond ($\xi=0$) was used to control the transition between the regular and chaotic regimes. The classical behaviour is regular when the control parameter $\xi$ is one; in contrast, the system is chaotic when $\xi \neq 1$ even for values of $\xi$ close to one. The entropy grows fast as $\xi$ is decreased from 1 and the Lyapunov exponent remains positive for $\xi<1$. The Finite Difference Method was implemented in order to solve the quantum problem. The energy spectrum and eigenstates were numerically computed for different values of the control parameter. The nearest-neighbour spacing distribution is analysed as a function of $\xi$, finding a Poisson and a Gaussian Orthogonal Ensemble(GOE) distribution for regular and chaotic regimes respectively. Several scars and bouncing ball states are shown with their corresponding classical periodic orbits. Along the document the classical chaos identifiers are computed to show that system is chaotic. On the other hand, the quantum counterpart is in agreement with the Bohigas-Giannoni-Schmit conjecture and exhibits the standard features for chaotic billiard such as the scarring of the wavefunction.

id: 1205.5127
title: Carrier-envelope phase dependence in single-cycle laser pulse propagation with the inclusion of counter-rotating terms
authors: Ni Cui, Mihai A. Macovei
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 093031 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5127
abstract: We focus on the propagation properties of a single-cycle laser pulse through a two-level medium by numerically solving the full-wave Maxwell-Bloch equations. The counter-rotating terms in the spontaneous emission damping are included such that the equations of motion are slightly different from the conventional Bloch equations. The counter-rotating terms can considerably suppress the broadening of the pulse envelope and the decrease of the group velocity rooted from dispersion. Furthermore, for incident single-cycle pulses with envelope area 4$\pi$, the time-delay of the generated soliton pulse from the main pulse depends crucially on the carrier-envelope phase of the incident pulse. This can be utilized to determine the carrier-envelope phase of the single-cycle laser pulse.

id: 1205.5129
title: A general approximation of quantum graph vertex couplings by scaled Schroedinger operators on thin branched manifolds
authors: Pavel Exner, Olaf Post
comments: 19 pages, one figure; introduction amended and some references added, to appear in CMP
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5129
abstract: We demonstrate that any self-adjoint coupling in a quantum graph vertex can be approximated by a family of magnetic Schroedinger operators on a tubular network built over the graph. If such a manifold has a boundary, Neumann conditions are imposed at it. The procedure involves a local change of graph topology in the vicinity of the vertex; the approximation scheme constructed on the graph is subsequently `lifted' to the manifold. For the corresponding operator a norm-resolvent convergence is proved, with the natural identification map, as the tube diameters tend to zero.

id: 1205.5136
title: On the Efficiency of Classical and Quantum Secure Function Evaluation
authors: Severin Winkler, J¨¹rg Wullschleger
comments: 
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th., vol. 60, no. 6, p. 1-21 (2014)
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5136
abstract: We provide bounds on the efficiency of secure one-sided output two-party computation of arbitrary finite functions from trusted distributed randomness in the statistical case. From these results we derive bounds on the efficiency of protocols that use different variants of OT as a black-box. When applied to implementations of OT, these bounds generalize most known results to the statistical case. Our results hold in particular for transformations between a finite number of primitives and for any error. In the second part we study the efficiency of quantum protocols implementing OT. While most classical lower bounds for perfectly secure reductions of OT to distributed randomness still hold in the quantum setting, we present a statistically secure protocol that violates these bounds by an arbitrarily large factor. We then prove a weaker lower bound that does hold in the statistical quantum setting and implies that even quantum protocols cannot extend OT. Finally, we present two lower bounds for reductions of OT to commitments and a protocol based on string commitments that is optimal with respect to both of these bounds.

id: 1205.5191
title: Collective and single-particle excitations in 2D dipolar Bose gases
authors: Alexey Filinov, Michael Bonitz
comments: 27 pages, 15 figures, 7 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043628 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5191
abstract: The Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless transition in 2D dipolar systems has been studied recently by path integral Monte Carlo (PIMC) simulations [A. Filinov et al., PRL 105, 070401 (2010)]. Here, we complement this analysis and study temperature-coupling strength dependence of the density (particle-hole) and single-particle (SP) excitation spectra both in superfluid and normal phases. The dynamic structure factor, S(q,omega), of the longitudinal excitations is rigorously reconstructed with full information on damping. The SP spectral function, A(q,omega), is worked out from the one-particle Matsubara Green's function. A stochastic optimization method is applied for reconstruction from imaginary times. In the superfluid regime sharp energy resonances are observed both in the density and SP excitations. The involved hybridization of both spectra is discussed. In contrast, in the normal phase, when there is no coupling, the density modes, beyond acoustic phonons, are significantly damped. Our results generalize previous zero temperature analyses based on variational many-body wavefunctions [F. Mazzanti et al., PRL 102, 110405 (2009), D. Hufnagl et al., PRL 107, 065303 (2011)], where the underlying physics of the excitation spectrum and the role of the condensate has not been addressed.

id: 1205.5206
title: Bandwidth enhancement and optical performances of multiple quantum well transistor lasers
authors: Iman Taghavi, Hassan Kaatuzian, Jean-Pierre Leburton
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5206
abstract: A detailed rate-equation-based model is developed to study carrier transport effects on optical and electrical characteristics of the Multiple Quantum Well Heterojunction Bipolar Transistor Laser in time-domain. Simulation results extracted using numerical techniques in small-signal regime predict significant enhancement in device optical bandwidth when multiple quantum wells are used. Cavity length and base width are also modified to optimize the optoelectronic performances of the device. An optical bandwidth of \approx 60GHz is achieved in the case of 5 quantum wells each of 70A widths and a cavity length of 200um.

id: 1205.5222
title: The Unique Pure Gaussian State Determined by the Partial Saturation of the Uncertainty Relations of a Mixed Gaussian State
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson
comments: Submitted
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5222
abstract: Let {\rho} the density matrix of a mixed Gaussian state. Assuming that one of the Robertson--Schr\"odinger uncertainty inequalities is saturated by {\rho}, e.g. ({\Delta}^{{\rho}}X_1)^2({\Delta}^{{\rho}}P_1)^2={\Delta}^{{\rho}}(X_1,P_1)^2+(1/4)\hbar^2, we show that there exists a unique pure Gaussian state whose Wigner distribution is dominated by that of {\rho} and having the same variances and covariance {\Delta}^{{\rho}}X_1,{\Delta}^{{\rho}}P_1, and {\Delta}^{{\rho}}(X_1,P_1) as {\rho}. This property can be viewed as an analytic version of Gromov's non-squeezing theorem in the linear case, which implies that the intersection of a symplectic ball by a single plane of conjugate coordinates determines the radius of this ball.

id: 1205.5242
title: Quasi-exact Treatment of the Relativistic Generalized Isotonic Oscillator
authors: D. Agboola
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53 (2012) 052302
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5242
abstract: We investigate the pseudospin symmetry case of a spin-1/2 particle governed by the generalized isotonic oscillator, by presenting quasi exact polynomial solutions to Dirac equation with pseudospin symmetry vector and scalar potentials. The resulting equation is found to be quasi-exactly solvable owing to the existence of a hidden $sl(2)$ algebraic structure. A systematic and closed form solution to the basic equation is obtained using the Bethe ansatz method. Analytic expression for the energy is obtain and the wavefunction is derived in terms of the roots to a set of Bethe ansatz equations.

id: 1205.5276
title: The Renyi Entropy and the Multifractal Spectrum of Systems Near the Localization Transition
authors: Xiao Chen, Benjamin Hsu, Taylor L. Hughes, Eduardo Fradkin
comments: v2,5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 134201 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5276
abstract: We show that the R\'enyi entropies of single particle, extended wave functions for disordered systems contain information about the multifractal spectrum. It is shown for moments of the R\'enyi entropy, $S_{n}$, where $|n|<1$, it is possible to extract universal information about the multifractility of such systems. This is shown through a generic calculation and then illustrated through two example models. We find good agreement between our analytic formula and numerical simulations of the two test models. Our formalism is easily extendable to generic non-interacting fermion models. It is also suggested that recent experimental advances in measuring the multifractal spectrum might allow some moments of the R\'enyi entropy to be measured.

id: 1205.5284
title: Using dark modes for high-fidelity optomechanical quantum state transfer
authors: Ying-Dan Wang, Aashish A. Clerk
comments: 39 pages, 11 figures NJP 14 (Focus issue on Optomechanics)
journal: New J. Phys. 14 105010 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5284
abstract: In a recent publication [Y.D. Wang and A.A. Clerk, Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 153603 (2012)], we demonstrated that one can use interference to significantly increase the fidelity of state transfer between two electromagnetic cavities coupled to a common mechanical resonator over a naive sequential-transfer scheme based on two swap operations. This involved making use of a delocalized electromagnetic mode which is decoupled from the mechanical resonator, a so-called "mechanically-dark" mode. Here, we demonstrate the existence of a new "hybrid" state transfer scheme which incorporates the best elements of the dark-mode scheme (protection against mechanical dissipation) and the double-swap scheme (fast operation time). Importantly, this new scheme also does not require the mechanical resonator to be prepared initially in its ground state. We also provide additional details on the previously-described interference-enhanced transfer schemes, and provide an enhanced discussion of how the interference physics here is intimately related to the optomechanical analogue of electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT). We also compare the various transfer schemes over a wide range of relevant experimental parameters, producing a "phase diagram" showing the the optimal transfer scheme for different points in parameter space.

id: 1205.5307
title: Environmental Decoherence versus Intrinsic Decoherence
authors: P. C. E. Stamp
comments: to be published in Phil Trans Roy Soc A
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5307
abstract: We review the difference between standard environmental decoherence and 'intrinsic decoherence', which is taken to be an ineluctable process of Nature. Environmental decoherence is typically modeled by spin bath or oscillator modes - we review some of the unanswered questions not captured by these models, and also the application of them to experiments. Finally, a sketch is given of a new theoretical approach to intrinsic decoherence, and this scheme is applied to the discussion of gravitational decoherence.

id: 1205.5395
title: Turing-equivalent automata using a fixed-size quantum memory
authors: Abuzer Yakaryilmaz
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5395
abstract: In this paper, we introduce a new public quantum interactive proof system and the first quantum alternating Turing machine: qAM proof system and qATM, respectively. Both are obtained from their classical counterparts (Arthur-Merlin proof system and alternating Turing machine, respectively,) by augmenting them with a fixed-size quantum register. We focus on space-bounded computation, and obtain the following surprising results: Both of them with constant-space are Turing-equivalent. More specifically, we show that for any Turing-recognizable language, there exists a constant-space weak-qAM system, (the nonmembers do not need to be rejected with high probability), and we show that any Turing-recognizable language can be recognized by a constant-space qATM even with one-way input head. For strong proof systems, where the nonmembers must be rejected with high probability, we show that the known space-bounded classical private protocols can also be simulated by our public qAM system with the same space bound. Besides, we introduce a strong version of qATM: The qATM that must halt in every computation path. Then, we show that strong qATMs (similar to private ATMs) can simulate deterministic space with exponentially less space. This leads to shifting the deterministic space hierarchy exactly by one-level. The method behind the main results is a new public protocol cleverly using its fixed-size quantum register. Interestingly, the quantum part of this public protocol cannot be simulated by any space-bounded classical protocol in some cases.

id: 1205.5433
title: Adventures in Invariant Theory
authors: P. D. Jarvis, J. G. Sumner
comments: 12 pp, includes supplementary discussion of examples
journal: 
subjects: Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Group Theory (math.GR); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5433
abstract: We provide an introduction to enumerating and constructing invariants of group representations via character methods. The problem is contextualised via two case studies arising from our recent work: entanglement measures, for characterising the structure of state spaces for composite quantum systems; and Markov invariants, a robust alternative to parameter-estimation intensive methods of statistical inference in molecular phylogenetics.

id: 1205.5462
title: Hydrogen supersymmetry: A new method in perturbation theory
authors: E. A. Muljarov
comments: 12 pages, 1 fugure
journal: Physica Status Solidi (b), 234, 463 (2002)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5462
abstract: The O(4) supersymmetry of the hydrogen atom is utilized to construct a complete basis using only the bound state wave functions. For a large class of perturbations, an expansion of the electron (exciton) wave function into such a complete set reduces the perturbed Schroedinger equation to a standard eigenvalue problem with an equidistant unperturbed spectrum. A high-order polarizability of the ground state of the hydrogen atom in a static electric field is calculated via Rayleigh-Schroedinger perturbation theory for illustration of the new method.

id: 1205.5472
title: Optical Spectral Singularities and Coherent Perfect Absorption in a Two-Layer Spherical Medium
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh, Mustafa Sarisaman
comments: 19 pages, 1 table, 10 figures, accepted for publication in Proc. R. Soc. A
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 468, 3224-3246 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5472
abstract: An optical spectral singularity is a zero-width resonance that corresponds to lasing at threshold gain. Its time-reversal causes coherent perfect absorption of light and forms the theoretical basis of antilasing. In this article we explore optical spectral singularities of a two-layer spherical medium. In particular, we examine the cases that a gain medium is coated by a thin layer of high-refractive index glass and a spherical glass covered by a layer of gain material. In the former case, the coating reduces the minimum radius required for exciting spectral singularities and gives rise to the formation of clusters of spectral singularities separated by wide spectral gaps. In the latter case, the coating leads to a doubling of the number of spectral singularities.

id: 1205.5482
title: Hyperspherical theory of anisotropic exciton
authors: E. A. Muljarov, A. L. Yablonskii, S. G. Tikhodeev, A. E. Bulatov, Joseph L. Birman
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 41, 6026 (2000)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5482
abstract: A new approach to the theory of anisotropic exciton based on Fock transformation, i.e., on a stereographic projection of the momentum to the unit 4-dimensional (4D) sphere, is developed. Hyperspherical functions are used as a basis of the perturbation theory. The binding energies, wave functions and oscillator strengths of elongated as well as flattened excitons are obtained numerically. It is shown that with an increase of the anisotropy degree the oscillator strengths are markedly redistributed between optically active and formerly inactive states, making the latter optically active. An approximate analytical solution of the anisotropic exciton problem taking into account the angular momentum conserving terms is obtained. This solution gives the binding energies of moderately anisotropic exciton with a good accuracy and provides a useful qualitative description of the energy level evolution.

id: 1205.5487
title: Web Portal for Photonic Technologies Using Grid Infrastructures
authors: H. V. Astsatryan, T. V. Gevorgyan, A. R. Shahinyan
comments: 
journal: JSEA, Vol.5 No.11, PP. 864-869, 2012
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5487
abstract: The modeling of physical processes is an integral part of scientific and technical research. In this area, the Extendible C++ Application in Quantum Technologies (ECAQT) package provides the numerical simulations and modeling of complex quantum systems in the presence of decoherence with wide applications in photonics. It allows creating models of interacting complex systems and simulates their time evolution with a number of available time-evolution drivers. Physical simulations involving massive amounts of calculations are often executed on distributed computing infrastructures. It is often difficult for non expert users to use such computational infrastructures or even to use advanced libraries over the infrastructures, because they often require being familiar with middleware and tools, parallel programming techniques and packages. The P-RADE Grid Portal is a Grid portal solution that allows users to manage the whole life-cycle for executing a parallel application on the computing Grid infrastructures. The article describes the functionality and the structure of the web portal based on ECAQT package.

id: 1205.5491
title: Universal Features of the Excitation Spectrum in Generalized Gibbs Distribution Ensemble
authors: E. Demler, A. M. Tsvelik
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures; revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5491
abstract: It is shown that excitation spectra of Generalized Gibbs Ensembles (GGE) of one-dimensional integrable models with isotopic symmetry contain universal features insensitive to details of the distribution. Namely, the low energy limit of the subsystem of isotopic (for instance, spin) excitations is described by the effective action of a ferromagnet at thermodynamic equilibrium with a single temperature and with the stiffness determined by the initial conditions. The condition of universality is that the entropy per excited particle is small.

id: 1205.5503
title: Coherent storage and phase modulation of single hard x-ray photons using nuclear excitons
authors: Wen-Te Liao, Adriana P¨¢lffy, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures; v2 modified to match the published version, condensed to 4 figures, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 197403 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5503
abstract: Coherent storage and phase modulation of x-ray single-photon wave packets in resonant scattering of light off nuclei is investigated theoretically. We show that by switching off and on again the magnetic field in the nuclear sample, phase-sensitive storage of photons in the keV regime can be achieved. Corresponding $\pi$ phase modulation of the stored photon can be accomplished if the retrieving magnetic field is rotated by $180^{\circ}$. The development of such x-ray single-photon control techniques is a first step towards forwarding quantum optics and quantum information to shorter wavelengths and more compact photonic devices.

id: 1205.5519
title: Hidden symmetries enhance quantum transport in Light Harvesting systems
authors: Tobias Zech, Roberto Mulet, Thomas Wellens, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5519
abstract: For more than 50 years we have known that photosynthetic systems harvest solar energy with almost unit {\it quantum efficiency}. However, recent experimental evidence of {\it quantum coherence} during the excitonic energy transport in photosynthetic organisms challenges our understanding of this fundamental biological function. Currently, and despite numerous efforts, the causal connection between coherence and efficiency is still a matter of debate. We show, through the study of extensive simulations of quantum coherent transport on networks, that three dimensional structures characterized by centro-symmetric Hamiltonians are statistically more efficient than random arrangements. Moreover, we demonstrate that the experimental data available for the electronic Hamiltonians of the Fenna-Mathew-Olson (FMO) complex of sulfur bacteria and of the crypophyte PC645 complex of marine algae are consistent with this strong correlation of centro-symmetry with quantum efficiency. These results show that what appears to be geometrically disordered complexes may well exhibit a hidden symmetry which enhances the energy transport between chromophores. We are confident that our results will motivate research to explore the properties of nearly centro-symmetric Hamiltonians in more realistic environments, and to unveil the role of symmetries for quantum effects in biology. The unravelling of such symmetries may open novel perspectives and suggest new design principles in the development of artificial devices.

id: 1205.5548
title: Verifying the observer dependence of quasiparticle counts in the analogue gravity of dilute ultracold quantum gases
authors: Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure; Proceedings of the II. Amazonian Symposium on Physics "Analogue Models of Gravity 30 Years Celebration"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5548
abstract: The quasiparticle content of a quantum field depends on the observer, in particular on its motional state, on the way the observer's detector couples to the quantum field, and on the frequency standard in which the detector carried by the observer measures the quanta to be detected. I review a procedure of making this fundamental property of quantum field theory experimentally manifest using quantum-optical means in Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 1205.5550
title: The Static Quantum Multiverse
authors: Yasunori Nomura
comments: 27 pages, 2 figures; a typo in the abstract corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5550
abstract: We consider the multiverse in the intrinsically quantum mechanical framework recently proposed in Refs. [1,2]. By requiring that the principles of quantum mechanics are universally valid and that physical predictions do not depend on the reference frame one chooses to describe the multiverse, we find that the multiverse state must be static---in particular, the multiverse does not have a beginning or end. We argue that, despite its naive appearance, this does not contradict observation, including the fact that we observe that time flows in a definite direction. Selecting the multiverse state is ultimately boiled down to finding normalizable solutions to certain zero-eigenvalue equations, analogous to the case of the hydrogen atom. Unambiguous physical predictions would then follow, according to the rules of quantum mechanics.

id: 1205.5591
title: Quantum feedback control of a superconducting qubit: Persistent Rabi oscillations
authors: R. Vijay, C. Macklin, D. H. Slichter, S. J. Weber, K. W. Murch, R. Naik, A. N. Korotkov, I. Siddiqi
comments: Manuscript: 5 Pages and 3 figures ; Supplementary Information: 9 pages and 3 figures
journal: Nature 490, 77 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5591
abstract: The act of measurement bridges the quantum and classical worlds by projecting a superposition of possible states into a single, albeit probabilistic, outcome. The time-scale of this "instantaneous" process can be stretched using weak measurements so that it takes the form of a gradual random walk towards a final state. Remarkably, the interim measurement record is sufficient to continuously track and steer the quantum state using feedback. We monitor the dynamics of a resonantly driven quantum two-level system -- a superconducting quantum bit --using a near-noiseless parametric amplifier. The high-fidelity measurement output is used to actively stabilize the phase of Rabi oscillations, enabling them to persist indefinitely. This new functionality shows promise for fighting decoherence and defines a path for continuous quantum error correction.

id: 1205.5622
title: Partial decoherence in mesoscopic systems
authors: Amnon Aharony, Shmuel Gurvitz, Yasuhiro Tokura, Ora Entin-Wohlmna, Sushanta Dattagupta
comments: To appear in the Proceedings of FQMT11 (Prague) - Physica Scripta
journal: Phys. Scr. T151, 014018 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5622
abstract: The coupling of a mesoscopic system with its environment usually causes total decoherence: at long times the reduced density matrix of the system evolves in time to a limit which is independent of its initial value, losing all the quantum information stored in its initial state. Under special circumstances, a subspace of the system's Hilbert space remains coherent, or "decoherence free", and the reduced density matrix approaches a non-trivial limit which contains information on its initial quantum state, despite the coupling to the environment. This situation is called "partial decoherence". Here we find the conditions for partial decoherence for a mesoscopic system (with $N$ quantum states) which is coupled to an environment. When the Hamiltonian of the system commutes with the total Hamiltonian, one has "adiabatic decoherence", which yields N-1 time-independent combinations of the reduced density matrix elements. In the presence of a magnetic flux, one can measure circulating currents around loops in the system even at long times, and use them to retrieve information on the initial state. For N=2, we demonstrate that partial decoherence can happen only under adiabatic decoherence conditions. However, for $N>2$ we find partial decoherence even when the Hamiltonian of the system does not commute with the total Hamiltonian, and we obtain the general conditions for such non-adiabatic partial decoherence. For an electron moving on a ring, with $N>2$ single-level quantum dots, non-adiabatic partial decoherence can arise only when the total flux through the ring vanishes (or equals an integer number of flux quanta), and therefore there is no asymptotic circulating current.

id: 1205.5623
title: Measuring the effective phonon density of states of a quantum dot
authors: K. H. Madsen, P. Kaer, A. Kreiner-M?ller, S. Stobbe, A. Nysteen, J. M?rk, P. Lodahl
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 045316 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5623
abstract: We employ detuning-dependent decay-rate measurements of a quantum dot in a photonic-crystal cavity to study the influence of phonon dephasing in a solid-state quantum-electrodynamics experiment. The experimental data agree with a microscopic non-Markovian model accounting for dephasing from longitudinal acoustic phonons, and identifies the reason for the hitherto unexplained difference between non-resonant cavity feeding in different nanocavities. From the comparison between experiment and theory we extract the effective phonon density of states experienced by the quantum dot. This quantity determines all phonon dephasing properties of the system and is found to be described well by a theory of bulk phonons.

id: 1205.5629
title: Hyperfine-induced decoherence in triangular spin-cluster qubits
authors: Filippo Troiani, Dimitrije Stepanenko, Daniel Loss
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 161409(R) (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5629
abstract: We investigate hyperfine-induced decoherence in a triangular spin-cluster for different qubit encodings. Electrically controllable eigenstates of spin chirality (C_z) show decoherence times that approach milliseconds, two orders of magnitude longer than those estimated for the eigenstates of the total spin projection (S_z) and of the partial spin sum (S_{12}). The robustness of chirality is due to its decoupling from both the total- and individual-spin components in the cluster. This results in a suppression of the effective interaction between C_z and the nuclear spin bath.

id: 1205.5717
title: Astrophysical Evidence for the Non-Hermitian but $PT$-symmetric Hamiltonian of Conformal Gravity
authors: Philip D. Mannheim
comments: LaTex, 15 pages, 21 figures. Expanded version of talks given at the International Seminar and Workshop "Quantum Physics with Non-Hermitian Operators", Dresden, June 2011 and the Symposium "PT Quantum Mechanics 2011", Heidelberg, September 2011. Prepared for a Special Issue of Fortschritte der Physik - Progress of Physics on "Quantum Physics with Non-Hermitian Operators: Theory and Experiment"
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5717
abstract: In this review we discuss the connection between two seemingly disparate topics, macroscopic gravity on astrophysical scales and Hamiltonians that are not Hermitian but $PT$ symmetric on microscopic ones. In particular we show that the quantum-mechanical unitarity problem of the fourth-order derivative conformal gravity theory is resolved by recognizing that the scalar product appropriate to the theory is not the Dirac norm associated with a Hermitian Hamiltonian but is instead the norm associated with a non-Hermitian but $PT$-symmetric Hamiltonian. Moreover, the fourth-order theory Hamiltonian is not only not Hermitian, it is not even diagonalizable, being of Jordan-block form. With $PT$ symmetry we establish that conformal gravity is consistent at the quantum-mechanical level. In consequence, we can apply the theory to data, to find that the theory is capable of naturally accounting for the systematics of the rotation curves of a large and varied sample of 138 spiral galaxies without any need for dark matter. The success of the fits provides evidence for the relevance of non-diagonalizable but $PT$-symmetric Hamiltonians to physics.

id: 1205.5792
title: Topological flat band models with arbitrary Chern numbers
authors: Shuo Yang, Zheng-Cheng Gu, Kai Sun, S. Das Sarma
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 241112(R) (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5792
abstract: We report the theoretical discovery of a systematic scheme to produce topological flat bands (TFBs) with arbitrary Chern numbers. We find that generically a multi-orbital high Chern number TFB model can be constructed by considering multi-layer Chern number C=1 TFB models with enhanced translational symmetry. A series of models are presented as examples, including a two-band model on a triangular lattice with a Chern number C=3 and an $N$-band square lattice model with $C=N$ for an arbitrary integer $N$. In all these models, the flatness ratio for the TFBs is larger than 30 and increases with increasing Chern number. In the presence of appropriate inter-particle interactions, these models are likely to lead to the formation of novel Abelian and Non-Abelian fractional Chern insulators. As a simple example, we test the C=2 model with hardcore bosons at 1/3 filling and an intriguing fractional quantum Hall state is observed.

id: 1205.5832
title: High Quality Ultrathin Bi2Se3 Films on CaF2 and CaF2/Si by Molecular Beam Epitaxy with a Radio Frequency Cracker Cell
authors: Li Zhang, Robert Hammond, Merav Dolev, Min Liu, Alexander Palevski, Aharon Kapitulnik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5832
abstract: Here we report a method to fabricate high quality Bi2Se3 thin films using molecular beam epitaxy with a radio frequency cracker cell as an atomic selenium source. With rates close to exact stoichiometry, optimal layer-by-layer growth of high quality Bi2Se3 thin films with smooth surfaces, has been achieved on CaF2(111) substrates and Si(111) substrates with a thin CaF2 buffer layer(CaF2/Si). Transport measurements show a characteristic weak antilocalization mangnetoresistance, with emergence of weak localization in the ultrathin film limit. Quantum Oscillations attributed to the topological surface states have been observed, including in films on CaF2/Si.

id: 1205.5860
title: Quasi-Hermitian Hamiltonians associated with exceptional orthogonal polynomials
authors: Bikashkali Midya
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 376 (2012) 2851-2854
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5860
abstract: Using the method of point canonical transformation, we derive some exactly solvable rationally extended quantum Hamiltonians which are non-Hermitian in nature and whose bound state wave functions are associated with Laguerre- or Jacobi-type $X_1$ exceptional orthogonal polynomials. These Hamiltonians are shown, with the help of imaginary shift of co-ordinate: $ e^{-\alpha p} x e^{\alpha p} = x+ i \alpha $, to be both quasi and pseudo-Hermitian. It turns out that the corresponding energy spectra is entirely real.

id: 1205.5882
title: Cooling a nanomechanical resonator by a triple quantum dot
authors: Zeng-Zhao Li, Shi-Hua Ouyang, Chi-Hang Lam, J. Q. You
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: EPL, 95 (2011) 40003
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5882
abstract: We propose an approach for achieving ground-state cooling of a nanomechanical resonator (NAMR) capacitively coupled to a triple quantum dot (TQD). This TQD is an electronic analog of a three-level atom in $\Lambda$ configuration which allows an electron to enter it via lower-energy states and to exit only from a higher-energy state. By tuning the degeneracy of the two lower-energy states in the TQD, an electron can be trapped in a dark state caused by destructive quantum interference between the two tunneling pathways to the higher-energy state. Therefore, ground-state cooling of an NAMR can be achieved when electrons absorb readily and repeatedly energy quanta from the NAMR for excitations.

id: 1205.5941
title: Momentum operators on graphs
authors: Pavel Exner
comments: AMSTeX, 14 pages, minor improvements, to appear in Fritz Gesztesy Festschrift
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5941
abstract: We discuss ways in which momentum operators can be introduced on an oriented metric graph. A necessary condition appears to the balanced property, or a matching between the numbers of incoming and outgoing edges; we show that a graph without an orientation, locally finite and at most countably infinite, can made balanced oriented \emph{iff} the degree of each vertex is even. On such graphs we construct families of momentum operators; we analyze their spectra and associated unitary groups. We also show that the unique continuation principle does not hold here.

id: 1205.6088
title: Pseudospin symmetry in the relativistic Killingbeck potential: quasi-exact solution
authors: Majid Hamzavi, Sameer M. Ikhdair, Karl-Erik Thylwe
comments: 10 pages, to appear in Zeitschrift fur Naturforschung (2012)
journal: Z. Naturforsch. 67a (2012) 567-571
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6088
abstract: The Killingbeck potential consisting of the harmonic oscillator-plus-Cornell potential, is of great interest in high energy physics. The solution of Dirac equation with the Killingbeck potential is studied in the presence of the pseudospin (p-spin) symmetry within the context of the quasi-exact solutions. Two special cases of the harmonic oscillator and Coulomb potential are also discussed.

id: 1205.6127
title: From the discrete to the continuous - towards a cylindrically consistent dynamics
authors: Bianca Dittrich
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6127
abstract: Discrete models usually represent approximations to continuum physics. Cylindrical consistency provides a framework in which discretizations mirror exactly the continuum limit. Being a standard tool for the kinematics of loop quantum gravity we propose a coarse graining procedure that aims at constructing a cylindrically consistent dynamics in the form of transition amplitudes and Hamilton's principal functions. The coarse graining procedure, which is motivated by tensor network renormalization methods, provides a systematic approximation scheme towards this end. A crucial role in this coarse graining scheme is played by embedding maps that allow the interpretation of discrete boundary data as continuum configurations. These embedding maps should be selected according to the dynamics of the system, as a choice of embedding maps will determine a truncation of the renormalization flow.

id: 1205.6161
title: Scattering and absorption of ultracold atoms by nanotubes
authors: B. Jetter, J. M?rkle, P. Schneeweiss, M. Gierling, S. Scheel, A. G¨¹nther, J. Fort¨¢gh, T. E. Judd
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 073009 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6161
abstract: We investigate theoretically how cold atoms, including Bose-Einstein condensates, are scattered from, or absorbed by nanotubes with a view to analysing recent experiments. In particular we consider the role of potential strength, quantum reflection, atomic interactions and tube vibrations on atom loss rates. Lifshitz theory calculations deliver a significantly stronger scattering potential than that found in experiment and we discuss possible reasons for this. We find that the scattering potential for dielectric tubes can be calculated to a good approximation using a modified pairwise summation approach, which is efficient and easily extendable to arbitrary geometries. Quantum reflection of atoms from a nanotube may become a significant factor at low temperatures, especially for non-metallic tubes. Interatomic interactions are shown to increase the rate at which atoms are lost to the nanotube and lead to non-trivial dynamics. Thermal nanotube vibrations do not significantly increase loss rates or reduce condensate fractions, but lower frequency oscillations can dramatically heat the cloud.

id: 1205.6178
title: Generic Regularities in Quasienergy Spectra and Free Quantum Dynamics Independently of Chaos Strength
authors: Itzhack Dana
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6178
abstract: Generic and significant regularities are shown to occur in the quasienergy spectra of the generalized quantum kicked particle for arbitrary quasimomentum, a quantity most relevant in atom-optics experimental realizations of this paradigmatic nonintegrable system. The spectral regularities are basically different from the usual ones associated with ordered regions in a mixed phase space, since they are \emph{completely independent} of the chaos strength. Their origin are free-motion features unaffected by the nonintegrability. The generic regularities are \emph{dense} subspectra, each being either a regular level sequence with approximately a Poisson level-spacing distribution or a ladder of equally-spaced levels. The quantum dynamics associated with each regular subspectrum is essentially \emph{free} for \emph{arbitrarily strong} chaos.

id: 1205.6189
title: Dressed, noise- or disorder- resilient optical lattices
authors: Hannes Pichler, Johannes Schachenmayer, Jonathan Simon, Peter Zoller, Andrew J. Daley
comments: 4+ Pages, 4 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 051605(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6189
abstract: External noise is inherent in any quantum system, and can have especially strong effects for systems exhibiting sensitive many-body phenomena. We show how a dressed lattice scheme can provide control over certain types of noise for atomic quantum gases in the lowest band of an optical lattice, removing the effects of lattice amplitude noise to first order for particular choices of the dressing field parameters. We investigate the non-equilibrium many-body dynamics for bosons and fermions induced by noise away from this parameter regime, and also show how the same technique can be used to reduce spatial disorder in projected lattice potentials.

id: 1205.6302
title: Properties of finite Gaussians and the discrete-continuous transition
authors: Nicolae Cotfas, Daniela Dragoman
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 425305
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6302
abstract: Weyl's formulation of quantum mechanics opened the possibility of studying the dynamics of quantum systems both in infinite-dimensional and finite-dimensional systems. Based on Weyl's approach, generalized by Schwinger, a self-consistent theoretical framework describing physical systems characterised by a finite-dimensional space of states has been created. The used mathematical formalism is further developed by adding finite-dimensional versions of some notions and results from the continuous case. Discrete versions of the continuous Gaussian functions have been defined by using the Jacobi theta functions. We continue the investigation of the properties of these finite Gaussians by following the analogy with the continuous case. We study the uncertainty relation of finite Gaussian states, the form of the associated Wigner quasi-distribution and the evolution under free-particle and quantum harmonic oscillator Hamiltonians. In all cases, a particular emphasis is put on the recovery of the known continuous-limit results when the dimension $d$ of the system increases.

id: 1205.6366
title: Atomic Quantum Simulation of Dynamical Gauge Fields coupled to Fermionic Matter: From String Breaking to Evolution after a Quench
authors: D. Banerjee, M. Dalmonte, M. M¨¹ller, E. Rico, P. Stebler, U.-J. Wiese, P. Zoller
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures. Main text plus one general supplementary material and one basic introduction to the topic. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 175302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6366
abstract: Using a Fermi-Bose mixture of ultra-cold atoms in an optical lattice, we construct a quantum simulator for a U(1) gauge theory coupled to fermionic matter. The construction is based on quantum links which realize continuous gauge symmetry with discrete quantum variables. At low energies, quantum link models with staggered fermions emerge from a Hubbard-type model which can be quantum simulated. This allows us to investigate string breaking as well as the real-time evolution after a quench in gauge theories, which are inaccessible to classical simulation methods.

id: 1205.6379
title: Loading of a surface-electrode ion trap from a remote, precooled source
authors: Jeremy M. Sage, Andrew J. Kerman, John Chiaverini
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013417 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6379
abstract: We demonstrate loading of ions into a surface-electrode trap (SET) from a remote, laser-cooled source of neutral atoms. We first cool and load $\sim$ $10^6$ neutral $^{88}$Sr atoms into a magneto-optical trap from an oven that has no line of sight with the SET. The cold atoms are then pushed with a resonant laser into the trap region where they are subsequently photoionized and trapped in an SET operated at a cryogenic temperature of 4.6 K. We present studies of the loading process and show that our technique achieves ion loading into a shallow (15 meV depth) trap at rates as high as 125 ions/s while drastically reducing the amount of metal deposition on the trap surface as compared with direct loading from a hot vapor. Furthermore, we note that due to multiple stages of isotopic filtering in our loading process, this technique has the potential for enhanced isotopic selectivity over other loading methods. Rapid loading from a clean, isotopically pure, and precooled source may enable scalable quantum information processing with trapped ions in large, low-depth surface trap arrays that are not amenable to loading from a hot atomic beam.

id: 1205.6431
title: Bound States in the Continuum Realized in the One-Dimensional Two-Particle Hubbard Model with an Impurity
authors: J. M. Zhang, Daniel Braak, Marcus Kollar
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. All comments are welcome and appreciated
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 116405 (2012)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6431
abstract: We report a bound state, which is embedded in the continuum spectrum, of the one-dimensional two-particle (Bose or Fermion) Hubbard model with an impurity potential. The state has the Bethe-ansatz form, although this model is nonintegrable. Moreover, for a wide region in parameter space, its energy is located in the continuum band. A remarkable advantage of this state with respect to similar states in other systems is the simple analytical form of the wave function and eigenvalue. This state can be tuned in and out of the continuum continuously.

id: 1205.6437
title: Mathematical predominance of Dirichlet condition for the one-dimensional Coulomb potential
authors: Cesar R. de Oliveira, Alessandra A. Verri
comments: 30 pages; no figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 53, 052104 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6437
abstract: We restrict a quantum particle under a coulombian potential (i.e., the Schr\"odinger operator with inverse of the distance potential) to three dimensional tubes along the x-axis and diameter $\varepsilon$, and study the confining limit $\varepsilon\to0$. In the repulsive case we prove a strong resolvent convergence to a one-dimensional limit operator, which presents Dirichlet boundary condition at the origin. Due to the possibility of the falling of the particle in the center of force, in the attractive case we need to regularize the potential and also prove a norm resolvent convergence to the Dirichlet operator at the origin. Thus, it is argued that, among the infinitely many self-adjoint realizations of the corresponding problem in one dimension, the Dirichlet boundary condition at the origin is the reasonable one-dimensional limit.

id: 1205.6485
title: Application of compressed sensing to the simulation of atomic systems
authors: X. Andrade, J. N. Sanders, A. Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6485
abstract: Compressed sensing is a method that allows a significant reduction in the number of samples required for accurate measurements in many applications in experimental sciences and engineering. In this work, we show that compressed sensing can also be used to speed up numerical simulations. We apply compressed sensing to extract information from the real-time simulation of atomic and molecular systems, including electronic and nuclear dynamics. We find that for the calculation of vibrational and optical spectra the total propagation time, and hence the computational cost, can be reduced by approximately a factor of five.

id: 1205.6494
title: Radio frequency charge sensing in InAs nanowire double quantum dots
authors: M. Jung, M. D. Schroer, K. D. Petersson, J. R. Petta
comments: Related papers at this http URL
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 100, 253508 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6494
abstract: We demonstrate charge sensing of an InAs nanowire double quantum dot (DQD) coupled to a radio frequency (rf) circuit. We measure the rf signal reflected by the resonator using homodyne detection. Clear single dot and DQD behavior are observed in the resonator response. rf-reflectometry allows measurements of the DQD charge stability diagram in the few-electron regime even when the dc current through the device is too small to be measured. For a signal-to-noise ratio of one, we estimate a minimum charge detection time of 350 microseconds at interdot charge transitions and 9 microseconds for charge transitions with the leads.

id: 1205.6624
title: Introduction to attosecond time-delays in photoionization
authors: J. M. Dahlstr?m, A. L'Huillier, A. Maquet
comments: Submitted to J. Phys. B as PhD Tutorial on 2012-05-29
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6624
abstract: This tutorial presents an introduction to the interaction of light and matter on the attosecond timescale. Our aim is to detail the theoretical description of ultra-short time-delays, and to relate these to the phase of extreme ultraviolet (XUV) light pulses and to the asymptotic phase-shifts of photoelectron wave packets. Special emphasis is laid on time-delay experiments, where attosecond XUV pulses are used to photoionize target atoms at well-defined times, followed by a probing process in real time by a phase-locked, infrared laser field. In this way, the laser field serves as a "clock" to monitor the ionization event, but the observable delays do not correspond directly to the delay associated with single-photon ionization. Instead, a significant part of the observed delay originates from a measurement induced process, which obscures the single-photon ionization dynamics. This artifact is traced back to a phase-shift of the above-threshold ionization transition matrix element, which we call the continuum-continuum phase. It arises due to the laser-stimulated transitions between Coulomb continuum states. As we shall show here, these measurement-induced effects can be separated from the single-photon ionization process, using analytical expressions of universal character, so that eventually the attosecond time-delays in photoionization can be accessed.

id: 1205.6641
title: Mott Insulator-Superfluid Transition in a Generalized Bose-Hubbard Model with Topologically Non-trivial Flat-Band
authors: Xing-Hai Zhang, Su-Peng Kou
comments: 13 figures, 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6641
abstract: In this paper, we studied a generalized Bose-Hubbard model on a checkerboard lattice with topologically nontrivial flat-band. We used mean-field method to decouple the model Hamiltonian and obtained phase diagram by Landau theory of second-order phase transition. We further calculate the energy gap and the dispersion of quasi-particle or quasi-hole in Mott insulator state and found that in strong interaction limit the quasi-particles or the quasi-holes also have flat bands.

id: 1205.6740
title: Measuring mechanical motion with a single spin
authors: S. D. Bennett, S. Kolkowitz, Q. P. Unterreithmeier, P. Rabl, A. C. Bleszynski Jayich, J. G. E. Harris, M. D. Lukin
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 125004 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6740
abstract: We study theoretically the measurement of a mechanical oscillator using a single two level system as a detector. In a recent experiment, we used a single electronic spin associated with a nitrogen vacancy center in diamond to probe the thermal motion of a magnetized cantilever at room temperature {Kolkowitz et al., Science 335, 1603 (2012)}. Here, we present a detailed analysis of the sensitivity limits of this technique, as well as the possibility to measure the zero point motion of the oscillator. Further, we discuss the issue of measurement backaction in sequential measurements and find that although backaction heating can occur, it does not prohibit the detection of zero point motion. Throughout the paper we focus on the experimental implementation of a nitrogen vacancy center coupled to a magnetic cantilever; however, our results are applicable to a wide class of spin-oscillator systems. Implications for preparation of nonclassical states of a mechanical oscillator are also discussed.

id: 1205.6755
title: A Dirac type xp-Model and the Riemann Zeros
authors: Kumar S. Gupta, E. Harikumar, Amilcar R. de Queiroz
comments: 5 pages, two-column, substantial modification to the text, new equations added
journal: EPL, 102 (2013) 10006
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6755
abstract: We propose a Dirac type modification of the xp-model to a $x \slashed{p}$ model on a semi-infinite cylinder. This model is inspired by recent work by Sierra et al on the xp-model on the half-line. Our model realizes the Berry-Keating conjecture on the Riemann zeros. We indicate the connection of our model to that of gapped graphene with a supercritical Coulomb charge, which might provide a physical system for the study of the zeros of the Riemann Zeta function.

id: 1205.6756
title: Dynamic generation of spin-squeezed states in bosonic Josephson junctions
authors: B. Juli¨¢-D¨ªaz, T. Zibold, M. K. Oberthaler, M. Mel¨¦-Messeguer, J. Martorell, A. Polls
comments: 12 pages, revised discussion + added references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023615 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6756
abstract: We analyze the formation of squeezed states in a condensate of ultracold bosonic atoms confined by a double-well potential. The emphasis is set on the dynamical formation of such states from initially coherent many-body quantum states. Two cases are described: the squeezing formation in the evolution of the system around the stable point, and in the short time evolution in the vicinity of an unstable point. The latter is shown to produce highly squeezed states on very short times. On the basis of a semiclassical approximation to the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian, we are able to predict the amount of squeezing, its scaling with $N$ and the speed of coherent spin formation with simple analytical formulas which successfully describe the numerical Bose-Hubbard results. This new method of producing highly squeezed spin states in systems of ultracold atoms is compared to other standard methods in the literature.

id: 1205.6758
title: Thermalization in one- plus two-body ensembles for dense interacting boson systems
authors: N. D. Chavda, V. K. B. Kota, V. Potbhare
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6758
abstract: Employing one plus two-body random matrix ensembles for bosons, temperature and entropy are calculated, using different definitions, as a function of the two-body interaction strength \lambda for a system with 10 bosons (m=10) in five single particle levels (N=5). It is found that in a region \lambda \sim \lambda_t, different definitions give essentially same values for temperature and entropy, thus defining a thermalization region. Also, (m,N) dependence of \lambda_t has been derived. It is seen that \lambda_t is much larger than the \lambda values where level fluctuations change from Poisson to GOE and strength functions change from Breit-Wigner to Gaussian.

id: 1205.6797
title: Quantum noise properties of multiphoton transitions in driven nonlinear resonators
authors: V. Leyton, V. Peano, M. Thorwart
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 093024 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6797
abstract: We investigate the quantum noise properties of a weakly nonlinear Duffing resonator in the deep quantum regime, where only few quanta are excited. This regime is dominated by the appearance of coherent multiphoton resonances in the nonlinear response of the resonator to the modulation. We determine simple expressions for the photon noise spectrum and find that the multiphoton resonances also induces a multiple peak structure in that noise. When the corresponding multiphoton Rabi oscillations are underdamped, zero temperature quantum fluctuations determine comparable populations of all quasienergy states which belong to a resonant multiphoton doublet. Most interestingly, the quantum fluctuations probe the multiphoton transitions by inducing several peaks in the noise spectrum of the resonator observables. In particular, the noise of the photon number contains complete information about the multiphoton states and their stationary populations via pairs of nearly symmetric peaks at opposite frequencies. Their widths are determined by the damping of the Rabi oscillations and their heights are proportional to the stationary nonequilbrium populations. A finite detuning from a multiphoton resonance generates a quasielastic noise peak at zero frequency. In addition, we relate the stationary populations of the quasienergy states with an effective quantum temperature and discuss the role of a finite temperature.

id: 1205.6879
title: Dynamic Stark Effect in Strongly Coupled Microcavity Exciton-Polaritons
authors: Alex Hayat, Christoph Lange, Lee A. Rozema, Ardavan Darabi, Henry M. van Driel, Aephraim M. Steinberg, Bryan Nelsen, David W. Snoke, Loren N. Pfeiffer, Kenneth W. West
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 033605 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6879
abstract: We present experimental observations of a non-resonant dynamic Stark shift in strongly coupled microcavity quantum well exciton-polaritons - a system which provides a rich variety of solid-state collective phenomena. The Stark effect is demonstrated in a GaAs/AlGaAs system at 10K by femtosecond pump-probe measurements, with the blue shift approaching the meV scale for a pump fluence of 2 mJcm^-2 and 50 meV red detuning, in good agreement with theory. The energy level structure of the strongly coupled polariton Rabi-doublet remains unaffected by the blue shift. The demonstrated effect should allow generation of ultrafast density-independent potentials and imprinting well-defined phase profiles on polariton condensates, providing a powerful tool for manipulation of these condensates, similar to dipole potentials in cold atom systems.

id: 1205.6899
title: Transversal electric conductivity and dielectric function in quantum Maxwell collisional plasma
authors: A. V. Latyshev, A. A. Yushkanov
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6899
abstract: Formulas for transversal conductance and dielectric permeability (dielectric function) in quantum Maxwell collisional plasma are deduced. The kinetic equation with collision integral in the form relaxation type is used.

id: 1205.6926
title: Indirect Coulomb Energy for Two-Dimensional Atoms
authors: Rafael D. Benguria, Mat¨§j Tu?ek
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1106.5772
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6926
abstract: In this manuscript we provide a family of lower bounds on the indirect Coulomb energy for atomic and molecular systems in two dimensions in terms of a functional of the single particle density with gradient correction terms.

id: 1205.6941
title: Dirac fermion wave guide networks on topological insulator surfaces
authors: Ren¨¦ Hammer, Christian Ertler, Walter P?tz
comments: Submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6941
abstract: Magnetic texturing on the surface of a topological insulator allows the design of wave guide networks and beam splitters for domain-wall Dirac fermions. Guided by simple analytic arguments we model a Dirac fermion interferometer consisting of two parallel pathways, whereby a newly developed staggered-grid leap-frog discretization scheme in 2+1 dimensions with absorbing boundary conditions is employed. The net transmission can be tuned between constructive to destructive interference, either by variation of the magnetization (path length) or an applied bias (wave length). Based on this principle, a Dirac fermion transistor is proposed. Extensions to more general networks are discussed.

id: 1205.7007
title: Signature of Coherent Transport in Epitaxial Spinel-based Magnetic Tunnel Junctions Probed by Shot Noise Measurement
authors: Takahiro Tanaka, Tomonori Arakawa, Kensaku Chida, Yoshitaka Nishihara, Daichi Chiba, Kensuke Kobayashi, Teruo Ono, Hiroaki Sukegawa, Shinya Kasai, Seiji Mitani
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl.Phys.Express. 5 053003(2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.7007
abstract: We measured the shot noise in fully epitaxial Fe/MgAl2OX/Fe-based magnetic tunneling junctions (MTJs). While the Fano factor to characterize the shot noise is very close to unity in the antiparallel configuration, it is reduced to 0.98 in the parallel configuration. This observation shows the sub-Poissonian process of electron tunneling in the parallel configuration, indicating the coherent tunneling through the spinel-based tunneling barrier of the MTJ.

id: 1205.7039
title: Multispin correlations and pseudo-thermalization of the transient density matrix in solid-state NMR: free induction decay and magic echo
authors: Steven W. Morgan, Vadim Oganesyan, Gregory S. Boutis
comments: 12 Pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.7039
abstract: Quantum unitary evolution typically leads to thermalization of generic interacting many-body systems. There are very few known general methods for reversing this process, and we focus on the magic echo, a radio-frequency pulse sequence known to approximately "rewind" the time evolution of dipolar coupled homonuclear spin systems in a large magnetic field. By combining analytic, numerical, and experimental results we systematically investigate factors leading to the degradation of magic echoes, as observed in reduced revival of mean transverse magnetization. Going beyond the conventional analysis based on mean magnetization we use a phase encoding technique to measure the growth of spin correlations in the density matrix at different points in time following magic echoes of varied durations and compare the results to those obtained during a free induction decay (FID). While considerable differences are documented at short times, the long-time behavior of the density matrix appears to be remarkably universal among the types of initial states considered - simple low order multispin correlations are observed to decay exponentially at the same rate, seeding the onset of increasingly complex high order correlations. This manifestly athermal process is constrained by conservation of the second moment of the spectrum of the density matrix and proceeds indefinitely, assuming unitary dynamics.

id: 1205.6658
title: Solving satisfiability by statistical estimation
authors: Michel Feldmann
comments: Version refocused on technical computing problems. New title to reflect this change (Initial title:From classical versus quantum algorithms to P versus NP). Most comments on relations with quantum computing are moved to arXiv: 1312.7551. 11 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6658
abstract: We propose to solve any algorithm on discrete variables by a technique of statistical estimation using deterministic convex analysis. In this framework, the variables are represented by their probability and the distinction between the complexity classes vanishes. The method is illustrated by solving the 3-SAT problem in polynomial time.

id: 1205.7061
title: Observation of coherent many-body Rabi oscillations
authors: Y. O. Dudin, L. Li, F. Bariani, A. Kuzmich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.7061
abstract: A two-level quantum system coherently driven by a resonant electromagnetic field oscillates sinusoidally between the two levels at frequency $\Omega$ which is proportional to the field amplitude [1]. This phenomenon, known as the Rabi oscillation, has been at the heart of atomic, molecular and optical physics since the seminal work of its namesake and coauthors [2]. Notably, Rabi oscillations in isolated single atoms or dilute gases form the basis for metrological applications such as atomic clocks and precision measurements of physical constants [3]. Both inhomogeneous distribution of coupling strength to the field and interactions between individual atoms reduce the visibility of the oscillation and may even suppress it completely. A remarkable transformation takes place in the limit where only a single excitation can be present in the sample due to either initial conditions or atomic interactions: there arises a collective, many-body Rabi oscillation at a frequency $N^0.5\Omega$ involving all N >> 1 atoms in the sample [4]. This is true even for inhomogeneous atom-field coupling distributions, where single-atom Rabi oscillations may be invisible. When one of the two levels is a strongly interacting Rydberg level, many-body Rabi oscillations emerge as a consequence of the Rydberg excitation blockade. Lukin and coauthors outlined an approach to quantum information processing based on this effect [5]. Here we report initial observations of coherent many-body Rabi oscillations between the ground level and a Rydberg level using several hundred cold rubidium atoms. The strongly pronounced oscillations indicate a nearly complete excitation blockade of the entire mesoscopic ensemble by a single excited atom. The results pave the way towards quantum computation and simulation using ensembles of atoms.

id: 1205.3156
title: Theory and classification of interacting 'integer' topological phases in two dimensions: A Chern-Simons approach
authors: Yuan-Ming Lu, Ashvin Vishwanath
comments: Published version with some errors and typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 125119 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3156
abstract: We study topological phases of interacting systems in two spatial dimensions in the absence of topological order (i.e. with a unique ground state on closed manifolds and no fractional excitations). These are the closest interacting analogs of integer Quantum Hall states, topological insulators and superconductors. We adapt the well-known Chern-Simons {K}-matrix description of Quantum Hall states to classify such `integer' topological phases. Our main result is a general formalism that incorporates symmetries into the {{K}}-matrix description. Remarkably, this simple analysis yields the same list of topological phases as a recent group cohomology classification, and in addition provides field theories and explicit edge theories for all these phases. The bosonic topological phases, which only appear in the presence of interactions and which remain well defined in the presence of disorder include (i) bosonic insulators with a Hall conductance quantized to even integers (ii) a bosonic analog of quantum spin Hall insulators and (iii) a bosonic analog of a chiral topological superconductor, whose K matrix is the Cartan matrix of Lie group E$_8$. We also discuss interacting fermion systems where symmetries are realized in a projective fashion, where we find the present formalism can handle a wider range of symmetries than a recent group super-cohomology classification. Lastly we construct microscopic models of these phases from coupled one-dimensional systems.

id: 1205.2038
title: The lowest excited configuration of harmonium
authors: Carlos L. Benavides-Riveros, Jos¨¦ M. Gracia-Bond¨ªa, Joseph C. V¨¢rilly
comments: Latex, 21 pages. Minor changes, 4 improved figures, references added. To appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022525 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2038
abstract: The harmonium model has long been regarded as an exactly solvable laboratory bench for quantum chemistry [Heisenberg, 1926]. For studying correlation energy, only the ground state of the system has received consideration heretofore. This is a spin singlet state. In this work we exhaustively study the lowest excited (spin triplet) harmonium state, with the main purpose of revisiting the relation between entanglement measures and correlation energy for this quite different species. The task is made easier by working with Wigner quasiprobabilities on phase space.

id: 1205.4732
title: Quantum information transfer and models for black hole mechanics
authors: Steven B. Giddings, Yinbo Shi
comments: 31 pages, harvmac. v2: nomenclature change, minor added explanation. v3: small corrections/rewordings; improved figure; version to match publication in PRD
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.4732
abstract: General features of information transfer between quantum subsystems, via unitary evolution, are investigated, with applications to the problem of information transfer from a black hole to its surroundings. A particularly direct form of quantum information transfer is "subspace transfer," which can be characterized by saturation of a subadditivity inequality. We also describe more general unitary quantum information transfer, and categorize different models for black hole evolution. Evolution that only creates paired excitations inside/outside the black hole is shown not to extract information, but information-transferring models exist both in the "saturating" and "non-saturating" category. The former more closely capture thermodynamic behavior; the latter generically have enhanced energy flux, beyond that of Hawking.

id: 1205.0885
title: Ehrenfest dynamics is purity non-preserving: a necessary ingredient for decoherence
authors: J. L. Alonso, J. Clemente-Gallardo, J. C. Cuch¨ª, P. Echenique, F. Falceto
comments: Revtex 4-1, 14 pages, 2 figures. Final published version
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics 137, 054106, 2012
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.0885
abstract: We discuss the evolution of purity in mixed quantum/classical approaches to electronic nonadiabatic dynamics in the context of the Ehrenfest model. As it is impossible to exactly determine initial conditions for a realistic system, we choose to work in the statistical Ehrenfest formalism that we introduced in Ref. 1. From it, we develop a new framework to determine exactly the change in the purity of the quantum subsystem along the evolution of a statistical Ehrenfest system. In a simple case, we verify how and to which extent Ehrenfest statistical dynamics makes a system with more than one classical trajectory and an initial quantum pure state become a quantum mixed one. We prove this numerically showing how the evolution of purity depends on time, on the dimension of the quantum state space $D$, and on the number of classical trajectories $N$ of the initial distribution. The results in this work open new perspectives for studying decoherence with Ehrenfest dynamics.

id: 1205.2065
title: A perturbative approach to the spectral zeta functions of strings, drums and quantum billiards
authors: Paolo Amore
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables; version accepted on Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.2065
abstract: We have obtained an explicit expression for the spectral zeta functions and for the heat kernel of strings, drums and quantum billiards working to third order in perturbation theory, using a generalization of the binomial theorem to operators. The perturbative parameter used in the expansion is either the small deformation of a reference domain (for instance a square), or a small variation of the density around a constant value (in two dimensions both cases can apply). This expansion is well defined even in presence of degenerations of the unperturbed spectrum. We have discussed several examples in one, two and three dimensions, obtaining in some cases the analytic continuation of the series, which we have then used to evaluate the corresponding Casimir energy. For the case of a string with piecewise constant density, subject to different boundary conditions, and of two concentric cylinders of very close radii, we have reproduced results previously published, thus obtaining a useful check of our method.

