id: 1206.0004
title: How Einstein and/or Schroedinger should have discovered Bell's theorem in 1936
authors: Terry Rudolph
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0004
abstract: This note shows how one can be led from considerations of quantum steering to Bell's theorem. The point is that steering remote systems by choosing between two measurements can be described in a local theory if we take quantum states to be associated many-to-one with the underlying "real states" of the world. Once one adds a third measurement this is no longer possible. Historically this is not how Bell's theorem arose - there are slight and subtle differences in the arguments - but it could have been.

id: 1206.0014
title: Quantum Logic between Remote Quantum Registers
authors: Norman Y. Yao, Zhe-Xuan Gong, Chris R. Laumann, Steven D. Bennett, L.-M. Duan, Mikhail D. Lukin, Liang Jiang, Alexey V. Gorshkov
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022306 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0014
abstract: We analyze two approaches to quantum state transfer in solid-state spin systems. First, we consider unpolarized spin-chains and extend previous analysis to various experimentally relevant imperfections, including quenched disorder, dynamical decoherence, and uncompensated long range coupling. In finite-length chains, the interplay between disorder-induced localization and decoherence yields a natural optimal channel fidelity, which we calculate. Long-range dipolar couplings induce a finite intrinsic lifetime for the mediating eigenmode; extensive numerical simulations of dipolar chains of lengths up to L=12 show remarkably high fidelity despite these decay processes. We further consider the extension of the protocol to bosonic systems of coupled oscillators. Second, we introduce a quantum mirror based architecture for universal quantum computing which exploits all of the spins in the system as potential qubits. While this dramatically increases the number of qubits available, the composite operations required to manipulate "dark" spin qubits significantly raise the error threshold for robust operation. Finally, as an example, we demonstrate that eigenmode-mediated state transfer can enable robust long-range logic between spatially separated Nitrogen-Vacancy registers in diamond; numerical simulations confirm that high fidelity gates are achievable even in the presence of moderate disorder.

id: 1206.0019
title: Predictions and Primitive Ontology in Quantum Foundations: A Study of Examples
authors: Valia Allori, Sheldon Goldstein, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 28 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2 minor improvements
journal: British Journal for the Philosophy of Science 65: 323-352 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0019
abstract: A major disagreement between different views about the foundations of quantum mechanics concerns whether for a theory to be intelligible as a fundamental physical theory it must involve a "primitive ontology" (PO), i.e., variables describing the distribution of matter in 4-dimensional space-time. In this paper, we illustrate the value of having a PO. We do so by focussing on the role that the PO plays for extracting predictions from a given theory and discuss valid and invalid derivations of predictions. To this end, we investigate a number of examples based on toy models built from the elements of familiar interpretations of quantum theory.

id: 1206.0024
title: Quantifying Quantum Correlations in Fermionic Systems using Witness Operators
authors: Fernando Iemini, Thiago O. Maciel, Tiago Debarba, Reinaldo O. Vianna
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, Accepted for publication in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing 12, 733-746 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0024
abstract: We present a method to quantify quantum correlations in arbitrary systems of indistinguishable fermions using witness operators. The method associates the problem of finding the optimal entan- glement witness of a state with a class of problems known as semidefinite programs (SDPs), which can be solved efficiently with arbitrary accuracy. Based on these optimal witnesses, we introduce a measure of quantum correlations which has an interpretation analogous to the Generalized Robust- ness of entanglement. We also extend the notion of quantum discord to the case of indistinguishable fermions, and propose a geometric quantifier, which is compared to our entanglement measure. Our numerical results show a remarkable equivalence between the proposed Generalized Robustness and the Schliemann concurrence, which are equal for pure states. For mixed states, the Schliemann con- currence presents itself as an upper bound for the Generalized Robustness. The quantum discord is also found to be an upper bound for the entanglement.

id: 1206.0034
title: Wide Localized Solitons in Systems with Time and Space-Modulated Nonlinearities
authors: L. E. Arroyo-Meza, A. de Souza Dutra, M. B. Hott
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0034
abstract: In this work we apply point canonical transformations to solve some classes of nonautonomous nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger equation namely, those which possess specific cubic and quintic - time and space dependent - nonlinearities. In this way we generalize some procedures recently published which resort to an ansatz to the wavefunction and recover a time and space independent nonlinear equation which can be solved explicitly. The method applied here allow us to find wide localized (in space) soliton solutions to the nonautonomous nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger equation, which were not presented before. We also generalize the external potential which traps the system and the nonlinearities terms.

id: 1206.0043
title: A tradeoff in simultaneous quantum-limited phase and loss estimation in interferometry
authors: Philip J. D. Crowley, Animesh Datta, Marco Barbieri, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 89, 023845 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0043
abstract: Interferometry with quantum light is known to provide enhanced precision for estimating a single phase. However, depending on the parameters involved, the quantum limit for the simultaneous estimation of multiple parameters may not attainable, leading to trade-offs in the attainable precisions. Here we study the simultaneous estimation of two parameters related to optical interferometry: phase and loss, using a fixed number of photons. We derive a trade-off in the estimation of these two parameters which shows that, in contrast to single-parameter estimation, it is impossible to design a strategy saturating the quantum Cramer-Rao bound for loss and phase estimation in a single setup simultaneously. We design optimal quantum states with a fixed number of photons achieving the best possible simultaneous precisions. Our results reveal general features about concurrently estimating Hamiltonian and dissipative parameters, and has implications for sophisticated sensing scenarios such as quantum imaging.

id: 1206.0064
title: Spin and Rotations in Galois Field Quantum Mechanics
authors: Lay Nam Chang, Zachary Lewis, Djordje Minic, Tatsu Takeuchi
comments: 21 pages, 11 pdf figures, LaTeX. Uses iopart.cls. Revised introduction. Additional references
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 065304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0064
abstract: We discuss the properties of Galois Field Quantum Mechanics constructed on a vector space over the finite Galois field GF(q). In particular, we look at 2-level systems analogous to spin, and discuss how SO(3) rotations could be embodied in such a system. We also consider two-particle `spin' correlations and show that the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality is nonetheless not violated in this model.

id: 1206.0074
title: Realistic loophole-free Bell test with atom-photon entanglement
authors: Colin Teo, Mateus Ara¨²jo, Marco T¨²lio Quintino, Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Daniel Cavalcanti, Valerio Scarani, Marcelo Terra Cunha, Marcelo Fran?a Santos
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures, 3 table, to appear in Nature Comm
journal: Nat. Commun. 4:2104 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0074
abstract: The establishment of nonlocal correlations, obtained through the violation of a Bell inequality, is not only important from a fundamental point of view, but constitutes the basis for device-independent quantum information technologies. Although several nonlocality tests have been performed so far, all of them suffered from either the locality or the detection loopholes. Recent studies have suggested that the use of atom-photon entanglement can lead to Bell inequality violations with moderate transmission and detection efficiencies. In this paper we propose an experimental setup realizing a simple atom-photon entangled state that, under realistic experimental parameters available to date, achieves a significant violation of the Clauser-Horn-Shimony-Holt inequality. Most importantly, the violation remains when considering typical detection efficiencies and losses due to required propagation distances.

id: 1206.0078
title: A Study of an N Molecule Quantized-Radiation-Field Hamiltonian
authors: Michael Thomas Tavis
comments: 104 pages, 17 figures, 1 Table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0078
abstract: In this dissertation a simple Hamiltonian for a system of inter-acting molecules and radiation field is developed from a model of N Two-Level Molecules interacting, via a dipole approximation, with a single mode, quantized radiation field. The exact eigenvalues and eigenvectors of this Hamiltonian are compared with analytical results obtained from several different approximation schemes applied to the simple model. The consequence of this comparison is the development of validity criteria for the utilization of these approximation schemes to more difficult problems. For example, an analysis done here indicates that using an independent molecule approximation in an explanation of the "build up" of coherent radiation in a gas laser (maser) may be inappropriate.

id: 1206.0105
title: Five-Qubit Contextuality, Noise-Like Distribution of Distances Between Maximal Bases and Finite Geometry
authors: Michel Planat, Metod Saniga
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 376 (2012) 3485-3490
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0105
abstract: Employing five commuting sets of five-qubit observables, we propose specific 160-661 and 160-21 state proofs of the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem that are also proofs of Bell's theorem. A histogram of the 'Hilbert-Schmidt' distances between the corresponding maximal bases shows in both cases a noise-like behaviour. The five commuting sets are also ascribed a finite-geometrical meaning in terms of the structure of symplectic polar space W(9,2).

id: 1206.0144
title: Experimental Eavesdropping Based on Optimal Quantum Cloning
authors: Karol Bartkiewicz, Karel Lemr, Anton¨ªn ?ernoch, Jan Soubusta, Adam Miranowicz
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 110, 173601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0144
abstract: The security of quantum cryptography is guaranteed by the no-cloning theorem, which implies that an eavesdropper copying transmitted qubits in unknown states causes their disturbance. Nevertheless, in real cryptographic systems some level of disturbance has to be allowed to cover, e.g., transmission losses. An eavesdropper can attack such systems by replacing a noisy channel by a better one and by performing approximate cloning of transmitted qubits which disturb them but below the noise level assumed by legitimate users. We experimentally demonstrate such symmetric individual eavesdropping on the quantum key distribution protocols of Bennett and Brassard (BB84) and the trine-state spherical code of Renes (R04) with two-level probes prepared using a recently developed photonic multifunctional quantum cloner [K. Lemr et al., Phys. Rev. A 85, 050307(R) (2012)]. We demonstrated that our optimal cloning device with high-success rate makes the eavesdropping possible by hiding it in usual transmission losses. We believe that this experiment can stimulate the quest for other operational applications of quantum cloning.

id: 1206.0147
title: Nonlinear nanomechanical resonators for quantum optoelectromechanics
authors: S. Rips, I. Wilson-Rae, M. J. Hartmann
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013854 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0147
abstract: We present a scheme for tuning and controlling nano mechanical resonators by subjecting them to electrostatic gradient fields, provided by nearby tip electrodes. We show that this approach enables access to a novel regime of optomechanics, where the intrinsic nonlinearity of the nanoresonator can be explored. In this regime, one or several laser driven cavity modes coupled to the nanoresonator and suitably adjusted gradient fields allow to control the motional state of the nanoresonator at the single phonon level. Some applications of this platform have been presented previously [New J. Phys. 14, 023042 (2012), Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 120503 (2013)]. Here, we provide a detailed description of the corresponding setup and its optomechanical coupling mechanisms, together with an in-depth analysis of possible sources of damping or decoherence and a discussion of the readout of the nanoresonator state.

id: 1206.0165
title: Entanglement quasiprobabilities of squeezed light
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 055026 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0165
abstract: We demonstrate the feasibility to completely characterize entanglement by negativities of quasiprobabilities. This requires the complete solution of a sophisticated mathematical problem, the so-called separability eigenvalue problem. Its solution is obtained for a non-Gaussian continuous variable quantum state, a two-mode squeezed state undergoing dephasing. This is a standard scenario for experiments with quantum-correlated radiation fields.

id: 1206.0172
title: Characterization of Tripartite Quantum States with Vanishing Monogamy Score
authors: Manabendra N. Bera, R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: v1: 8 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX 4.1; v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012319 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0172
abstract: Quantum discord, an information-theoretic quantum correlation measure, can satisfy as well as violate monogamy, for three-party quantum states. We quantify the feature using the concept of discord monogamy score. We find a necessary condition of a vanishing discord monogamy score for arbitrary three-party states. A necessary and sufficient condition is obtained for pure states. We prove that the class of states having a vanishing discord monogamy score cannot have arbitrarily high genuine multipartite entanglement, as quantified by generalized geometric measure. In the special case of three-qubit pure states, their classification with respect to the discord monogamy score, reveals a rich structure that is different from that which had been obtained by using the monogamy score corresponding to the entanglement measure called concurrence. We investigate properties like genuine multipartite entanglement and violation of the multipartite Bell inequality for these states.

id: 1206.0202
title: Deterministic CNOT Gate on electron qubits using quantum-dot spins in double-sided optical microcavities
authors: Hai-Rui Wei, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Some negligible errors are corrected and the English is polished
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0202
abstract: We propose a scheme to construct a deterministic CNOT gate on static electron-spin qubits, allowing for deterministic scalable quantum computing in solid-state systems.The excess electron confined in a charged quantum dot inside a double-sided optical microcavity represents the qubit, and the single photons play a medium role. Moreover, our device can work in both the weak coupling and the strong coupling regimes, but high fidelities are achieved only when the ratio of the side leakage to the cavity loss is low. Finally, we assess the feasibility of this device and show it can be implemented with current technology.

id: 1206.0211
title: Radiative heat transfer between two dielectric nanogratings in the scattering approach
authors: J. Lussange, R. Gu¨¦rout, F. S. S. Rosa, J.-J. Greffet, A. Lambrecht, S. Reynaud
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 86 (2012) 085432
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0211
abstract: We present a theoretical study of radiative heat transfer between dielectric nanogratings in the scattering approach. As a comparision with these exact results, we also evaluate the domain of validity of Derjaguin's Proximity Approximation (PA). We consider a system of two corrugated silica plates with various grating geometries, separation distances, and lateral displacement of the plates with respect to one another. Numerical computations show that while the PA is a good approximation for aligned gratings, it cannot be used when the gratings are laterally displaced. We illustrate this by a thermal modulator device for nanosystems based on such a displacement.

id: 1206.0220
title: Quantum Walks with Non-Orthogonal Position States
authors: R. Matjeschk, A. Ahlbrecht, M. Enderlein, Ch. Cedzich, A. H. Werner, M. Keyl, T. Schaetz, R. F. Werner
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 240503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0220
abstract: Quantum walks have by now been realized in a large variety of different physical settings. In some of these, particularly with trapped ions, the walk is implemented in phase space, where the corresponding position states are not orthogonal. We develop a general description of such a quantum walk and show how to map it into a standard one with orthogonal states, thereby making available all the tools developed for the latter. This enables a variety of experiments, which can be implemented with smaller step sizes and more steps. Tuning the non-orthogonality allows for an easy preparation of extended states such as momentum eigenstates, which travel at a well-defined speed with low dispersion. We introduce a method to adjust their velocity by momentum shifts, which allows to investigate intriguing effects such as the analog of Bloch oscillations.

id: 1206.0221
title: Two Different Definitions on Genuine Quantum and Classical Correlations in Multipartite Systems Do Not Coincide in General
authors: Zhanjun Zhang, Biaoliang Ye, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0221
abstract: In this paper we point out that the genuine quantum and classical correlations defined by Giorgi et al in two different ways [Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 190501 (2011), arXiv:1108.0434] do not coincide in general.

id: 1206.0231
title: The problem with the geometric discord
authors: Marco Piani
comments: 5 pages. Changes in ver 2: typos corrected, added short proof of monotonicity of standard quantum discord under one-side action. This note is meant to stimulate discussion in the community: comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 034101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0231
abstract: We argue that the geometric discord introduced in [B. Dakic, V. Vedral, and C. Brukner, Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 190502 (2010)] is not a good measure for the quantumness of correlations, as it can increase even under trivial local reversible operations of the party whose classicality/non-classicality is not tested. On the other hand it is known that the standard, mutual-information based discord does not suffer this problem; a simplified proof of such a fact is given.

id: 1206.0241
title: Discord Derived from Tsallis Entropy
authors: Jacek Jurkowski
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0241
abstract: Due to some ambiguity in defining mutual Tsallis entropy in the classical probability theory, its generalization to quantum theory is discussed and, as a consequence, two types of generalized quantum discord, called $q$-discords, are defined in terms of quantum Tsallis entropy. $q$-discords for two-qubit Werner and isotropic states are calculated and it is shown that one of them is positive, at least for states under investigation, for all $q>0$. Finally, an analytical expression for $q$-discord of certain family of two-qubit X states is presented.

id: 1206.0260
title: Block synchronization for quantum information
authors: Yuichiro Fujiwara
comments: 7 pages, no figures, final accepted version for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 87, 022344 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0260
abstract: Locating the boundaries of consecutive blocks of quantum information is a fundamental building block for advanced quantum computation and quantum communication systems. We develop a coding theoretic method for properly locating boundaries of quantum information without relying on external synchronization when block synchronization is lost. The method also protects qubits from decoherence in a manner similar to conventional quantum error-correcting codes, seamlessly achieving synchronization recovery and error correction. A family of quantum codes that are simultaneously synchronizable and error-correcting is given through this approach.

id: 1206.0284
title: Global Phase Space of Coherence and Entanglement in a double-well BEC
authors: Holger Hennig, Dirk Witthaut, David K. Campbell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0284
abstract: Ultracold atoms provide an ideal system for the realization of quantum technologies, but also for the study of fundamental physical questions such as the emergence of decoherence and classicality in quantum many-body systems. Here, we study the global structure of the quantum dynamics of bosonic atoms in a double-well trap and analyze the conditions for the generation of many-particle entanglement and spin squeezing which have important applications in quantum metrology. We show how the quantum dynamics is determined by the phase space structure of the associated mean-field system and where true quantum features arise beyond this `classical' approximation.

id: 1206.0297
title: Analytically solvable driven time-dependent two-level quantum systems
authors: Edwin Barnes, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4.5 pages, 4 figures, PRL version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 060401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0297
abstract: Analytical solutions to the time-dependent Schrodinger equation describing a driven two-level system are invaluable to many areas of physics, but they are also extremely rare. Here, we present a simple algorithm that generates an unlimited number of exact analytical solutions. We show that a general single-axis driving term and its corresponding evolution operator are determined by a single real function which is constrained only by a certain inequality and initial conditions. Any function satisfying these constraints yields an exact analytical solution. We demonstrate this method by presenting several new exact solutions to the time-dependent Schrodinger equation. Our general method and many of the new solutions we present are particularly relevant to qubit control in quantum computing applications.

id: 1206.0330
title: Systematic distillation of composite Fibonacci anyons using one mobile quasiparticle
authors: Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 12:876-892, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0330
abstract: A topological quantum computer should allow intrinsically fault-tolerant quantum computation, but there remains uncertainty about how such a computer can be implemented. It is known that topological quantum computation can be implemented with limited quasiparticle braiding capabilities, in fact using only a single mobile quasiparticle, if the system can be properly initialized by measurements. It is also known that measurements alone suffice without any braiding, provided that the measurement devices can be dynamically created and modified. We study a model in which both measurement and braiding capabilities are limited. Given the ability to pull nontrivial Fibonacci anyon pairs from the vacuum with a certain success probability, we show how to simulate universal quantum computation by braiding one quasiparticle and with only one measurement, to read out the result. The difficulty lies in initializing the system. We give a systematic construction of a family of braid sequences that initialize to arbitrary accuracy nontrivial composite anyons. Instead of using the Solovay-Kitaev theorem, the sequences are based on a quantum algorithm for convergent search.

id: 1206.0356
title: Geometrically Underpinned Maximally Entangled States Bases
authors: M. Revzen
comments: 12pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1205.5406, arXiv:1206.3884, arXiv:1111.4628, arXiv:1111.6446, arXiv:1201.0465. The present article is meant to repalce arXiv:1205.5406
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0356
abstract: Finite geometry is used to underpin ?nite, two d-dimensional particles Hilbert space, d=prime 6= 2. A central role is allotted to states with mutual unbiased bases (MUB) labeling. Dual a?ne plane geometry (DAPG) points underpin single particle, MUB labeled, product states. The DAPG lines are shown to underpin maximally entangled states which form an orthonormal basis spanning the space. The relevance of mutually unbiased collective coordinates bases (MUCB) for dealing with maximally entangled states is discussed and shown to provide an economic alternative mode of study. These maximally entangled, geometrically reasoned states, provide the resource to a transparent solution to what may be termed tracking of the Mean King Problem (MKP): here Alice prepares a state measured by King along some orientation which Alice succeed in identifying with a subsequent measurement. Brief expositions of the topics considered: MUB, DAPG, MUCB and the MKP are included, rendering the paper self contained.

id: 1206.0360
title: Theory of Josephson Photomultipliers: Optimal Working Conditions and Back Action
authors: Luke C.G. Govia, Emily J. Pritchett, Seth T. Merkel, Deanna Pineau, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 16 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0360
abstract: We describe the back action of microwave-photon detection via a Josephson photomultiplier (JPM), a superconducting qubit coupled strongly to a high-quality microwave cavity. The back action operator depends qualitatively on the duration of the measurement interval, resembling the regular photon annihilation operator at short interaction times and approaching a variant of the photon subtraction operator at long times. The optimal operating conditions of the JPM differ from those considered optimal for processing and storing of quantum information, in that a short $T_2$ of the JPM suppresses the cavity dephasing incurred during measurement. Understanding this back action opens the possibility to perform multiple JPM measurements on the same state, hence performing efficient state tomography.

id: 1206.0421
title: A Universally Valid Uncertainty Relation Revisited
authors: Yoshimasa Kurihara
comments: 4pages, 1 figure. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1201.5151 This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0421
abstract: A universally valid uncertainty relation proposed by Ozawa is re-investigated under for the generalized equation of motion with some boundary condition. Necessary conditions for violation (lessening) of the Heisenberg-type uncertainty relation is discussed in detail. An experimental test of lessening of the generalized uncertainty relation due to the boundary condition is shown by re-analyzing the data measuring electron densities of hydrogen molecule encapsulated in a cage of fullerene C60.

id: 1206.0446
title: Echoes and revival echoes in systems of anharmonically confined atoms
authors: Mark Herrera, Thomas M. Antonsen, Edward Ott, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 33 pages, 13 figures, corrected typos and added references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023613 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0446
abstract: We study echoes and what we call 'revival echoes' for a collection of atoms that are described by a single quantum wavefunction and are confined in a weakly anharmonic trap. The echoes and revival echoes are induced by applying two, successive temporally localized potential perturbations to the confining potential, one at time $t=0$, and a smaller one at time $t=\tau$. Pulse-like responses in the expectation value of position $<x(t)>$ are predicted at $t \approx n\tau$ ($n=2,3,...$) and are particularly evident at $t \approx 2\tau$. A novel result of our study is the finding of 'revival echoes'. Revivals (but not echoes) occur even if the second perturbation is absent. In particular, in the absence of the second perturbation, the response to the first perturbation dies away, but then reassembles, producing a response at revival times $mT_x$ ($m=1,2,...$). Including the second perturbation at $t=\tau$, we find temporally localized responses, revival echoes, both before and after $t\approx mT_x$, e.g., at $t\approx m T_x-n \tau$ (pre-revival echoes) and at $t\approx mT_x+n\tau$, (post-revival echoes), where $m$ and $n$ are $1,2,...$ . Depending on the form of the perturbations, the 'principal' revival echoes at $t \approx T_x \pm \tau$ can be much larger than the echo at $t \approx 2\tau$. We develop a perturbative model for these phenomena, and compare its predictions to the numerical solutions of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger Equation. The scaling of the size of the various echoes and revival echoes as a function of the symmetry and size of the perturbations applied at $t=0$ and $t=\tau$ is investigated. We also study the presence of revivals and revival echoes in higher moments of position, $<x^p (t)>$, $p>1$, and the effect of atom-atom interactions on these phenomena.

id: 1206.0453
title: Distinguishing between non-orthogonal quantum states of a single spin
authors: Gerald Waldherr, Adetunmise C. Dada, Philipp Neumann, Fedor Jelezko, Erika Andersson, Jorg Wrachtrup
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0453
abstract: An important task for quantum information processing is optimal discrimination between two non-orthogonal quantum states, which until now has only been realized optically. Here, we present and compare experimental realizations of optimal quantum measurements for distinguishing between two non-orthogonal quantum states encoded in a single ^14 N nuclear spin. Implemented measurement schemes are the minimum-error measurement (known as Helstrom measurement), unambiguous state discrimination using a standard projective mea-surement, and optimal unambiguous state discrimination (known as IDP measurement), which utilizes a three-dimensional Hilbert space. Measurement efficiencies are found to be above 80% for all schemes and reach a value of 90% for the IDP measurement

id: 1206.0462
title: Casimir-Polder forces, boundary conditions and fluctuations
authors: Riccardo Messina, Roberto Passante, Lucia Rizzuto, Salvatore Spagnolo, Ruggero Vasile
comments: 5 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 164031 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0462
abstract: We review different aspects of the atom-atom and atom-wall Casimir-Polder forces. We first discuss the role of a boundary condition on the interatomic Casimir-Polder potential between two ground-state atoms, and give a physically transparent interpretation of the results in terms of vacuum fluctuations and image atomic dipoles. We then discuss the known atom-wall Casimir-Polder force for ground- and excited-state atoms, using a different method which is also suited for extension to time-dependent situations. Finally, we consider the fluctuation of the Casimir-Polder force between a ground-state atom and a conducting wall, and discuss possible observation of this force fluctuation.

id: 1206.0488
title: Single-photon, cavity-mediated gates: detuning, losses, and non-adiabatic effects
authors: Julio Gea-Banacloche, Leno M. Pedrotti
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures; to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0488
abstract: We study several extensions of the single-photon, cavity-mediated quantum logical gates recently proposed by Koshino, Ishizaka and Nakamura: to a double-sided cavity configuration, to the case where the two atomic ground states are nondegenerate, and to include nonadiabatic corrections. Our analysis can be used to estimate the effects of various imperfections, and to prepare the way for a proof-of-principle demonstration with present technology. An interesting result is that the leading correction to the adiabatic approximation can be made to vanish for a suitable choice of detunings, provided the cavity is "good enough" (high enough ratio of coupling to loss). This could significantly relax the need for long single-photon pulses.

id: 1206.0504
title: Optimal indecomposable witnesses without extremality as well as spanning property
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Hoseog Yu
comments: 17 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, 45 (2012), 395307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0504
abstract: One of the interesting problems on optimal indecomposable entanglement witnesses is whether there exists an optimal indecomposable witness which neither has the spanning property nor is associated with extremal positive linear map. Here, we answer this question negatively by examining the extremality of the positive linear maps constructed by Qi and Hou [J. Phys. A {\bf 44}, 215305 (2100)].

id: 1206.0559
title: Quenching Dynamics and Quantum Information
authors: Tanay Nag, Amit Dutta, Ayoti Patra
comments: 21 pages, 12 figures, Submitted to Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems" edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1105.4442
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0559
abstract: We review recent studies on the measures of zero temperature quantum correlations namely, the quantum entanglement (concurrence) and discord present in the final state of a transverse XY spin chain following a quench through quantum critical points; the aim of these studies is to explore the scaling of the above quantities as a function of the quench rate. A comparative study between the concurrence and the quantum discord shows that their behavior is qualitatively the same though there are quantitative differences. For the present model, the scaling of both the quantities are given by the scaling of the density of the defect present in the final state though one can not find a closed form expression for the discord. We also extend our study of quantum discord to a transverse Ising chain in the presence of a three spin interaction. Finally, we present a study of the dynamical evolution of quantum discord and concurrence when two central qubits, initially prepared in a Werner state, are coupled to the environmental XY spin chain which is driven through quantum critical points. The qualitative behavior of quantum discord and concurrence are found to be similar as that of the decoherence factor.

id: 1206.0592
title: Microcavity controlled coupling of excitonic qubits
authors: F. Albert, K. Sivalertporn, J. Kasprzak, M Strau?, C. Schneider, S. H?fling, M. Kamp, A. Forchel, S. Reitzenstein, E. A. Muljarov, W. Langbein
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 4, 1747 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0592
abstract: Controlled non-local energy and coherence transfer enables light harvesting in photosynthesis and non-local logical operations in quantum computing. The most relevant mechanism of coherent coupling of distant qubits is coupling via the electromagnetic field. Here, we demonstrate the controlled coherent coupling of spatially separated excitonic qubits via the photon mode of a solid state microresonator. This is revealed by two-dimensional spectroscopy of the sample's coherent response, a sensitive and selective probe of the coherent coupling. The experimental results are quantitatively described by a rigorous theory of the cavity mediated coupling within a cluster of quantum dots excitons. Having demonstrated this mechanism, it can be used in extended coupling channels - sculptured, for instance, in photonic crystal cavities - to enable a long-range, non-local wiring up of individual emitters in solids.

id: 1206.0614
title: Optomechanical sideband cooling of a thin membrane within a cavity
authors: M. Karuza, C. Molinelli, M. Galassi, C. Biancofiore, R. Natali, P. Tombesi, G. Di Giuseppe, D. Vitali
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 095015 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0614
abstract: We present an experimental study of dynamical back-action cooling of the fundamental vibrational mode of a thin semitransparent membrane placed within a high-finesse optical cavity. We study how the radiation pressure interaction modifies the mechanical response of the vibrational mode, and the experimental results are in agreement with a Langevin equation description of the coupled dynamics. The experiments are carried out in the resolved sideband regime, and we have observed cooling by a factor 350 We have also observed the mechanical frequency shift associated with the quadratic term in the expansion of the cavity mode frequency versus the effective membrane position, which is typically negligible in other cavity optomechanical devices.

id: 1206.0630
title: Three-dimensionality of space and the quantum bit: an information-theoretic approach
authors: Markus P. Mueller, Lluis Masanes
comments: 13 + 22 pages, 9 figures. v4: some clarifications, in particular in Section V / Appendix C (added Example 39)
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 053040 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0630
abstract: It is sometimes pointed out as a curiosity that the state space of quantum two-level systems, i.e. the qubit, and actual physical space are both three-dimensional and Euclidean. In this paper, we suggest an information-theoretic analysis of this relationship, by proving a particular mathematical result: suppose that physics takes place in d spatial dimensions, and that some events happen probabilistically (not assuming quantum theory in any way). Furthermore, suppose there are systems that carry "minimal amounts of direction information", interacting via some continuous reversible time evolution. We prove that this uniquely determines spatial dimension d=3 and quantum theory on two qubits (including entanglement and unitary time evolution), and that it allows observers to infer local spatial geometry from probability measurements.

id: 1206.0650
title: On the relationship between pump chirp and single-photon chirp in spontaneous parametric downconversion
authors: X. Sanchez-Lozano, A. B. U'Ren, J. L. Lucio
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Opt. 14 (2012) 015202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0650
abstract: We study the chronocyclic character, i.e. the joint temporal and spectral properties, of the single-photon constituents of photon pairs generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion. In particular we study how single photon properties, including purity and single-photon chirp, depend on photon pair properties, including the type of signal-idler spectral and correlations and the level of pump chirp.

id: 1206.0673
title: Symmetric M-ary phase discrimination using quantum-optical probe states
authors: Ranjith Nair, Brent J. Yen, Saikat Guha, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Stefano Pirandola
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0673
abstract: We present a theoretical study of minimum error probability discrimination, using quantum- optical probe states, of M optical phase shifts situated symmetrically on the unit circle. We assume ideal lossless conditions and full freedom for implementing quantum measurements and for probe state selection, subject only to a constraint on the average energy, i.e., photon number. In particular, the probe state is allowed to have any number of signal and ancillary modes, and to be pure or mixed. Our results are based on a simple criterion that partitions the set of pure probe states into equivalence classes with the same error probability performance. Under an energy constraint, we find the explicit form of the state that minimizes the error probability. This state is an unentangled but nonclassical single-mode state. The error performance of the optimal state is compared with several standard states in quantum optics. We also show that discrimination with zero error is possible only beyond a threshold energy of (M - 1)/2. For the M = 2 case, we show that the optimum performance is readily demonstrable with current technology. While transmission loss and detector inefficiencies lead to a nonzero erasure probability, the error rate conditional on no erasure is shown to remain the same as the optimal lossless error rate.

id: 1206.0716
title: Classical and Quantum Modes of Coupled Mathieu Equations
authors: H. Landa, M. Drewsen, B. Reznik, A. Retzker
comments: 25 pages, v2 adds citations and small corrections
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 455305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0716
abstract: We expand the solutions of linearly coupled Mathieu equations in terms of infinite-continued matrix inversions, and use it to find the modes which diagonalize the dynamical problem. This allows obtaining explicitly the ('Floquet-Lyapunov') transformation to coordinates in which the motion is that of decoupled linear oscillators. We use this transformation to solve the Heisenberg equations of the corresponding quantum-mechanical problem, and find the quantum wavefunctions for stable oscillations, expressed in configuration-space. The obtained transformation and quantum solutions can be applied to more general linear systems with periodic coefficients (coupled Hill equations, periodically driven parametric oscillators), and to nonlinear systems as a starting point for convenient perturbative treatment of the nonlinearity.

id: 1206.0717
title: How Low Can Approximate Degree and Quantum Query Complexity be for Total Boolean Functions?
authors: Andris Ambainis, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 10 pages LaTeX. Version 2: added some clarification and an appendix with a proof of Lemma 2
journal: Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity (CCC'13), 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0717
abstract: It has long been known that any Boolean function that depends on n input variables has both degree and exact quantum query complexity of Omega(log n), and that this bound is achieved for some functions. In this paper we study the case of approximate degree and bounded-error quantum query complexity. We show that for these measures the correct lower bound is Omega(log n / loglog n), and we exhibit quantum algorithms for two functions where this bound is achieved.

id: 1206.0752
title: Adequacy of the Dicke model in cavity QED: a counter-"no-go" statement
authors: Andr¨¢s Vukics, Peter Domokos
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053807 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0752
abstract: The long-standing debate whether the phase transition in the Dicke model can be realized with dipoles in electromagnetic fields is yet an unsettled one. The well-known statement often referred to as the "no-go theorem", asserts that the so-called A-square term, just in the vicinity of the critical point, becomes relevant enough to prevent the system from undergoing a phase transition. At variance with this common belief, in this paper we prove that the Dicke model does give a consistent description of the interaction of light field with the internal excitation of atoms, but in the dipole gauge of quantum electrodynamics. The phase transition cannot be excluded by principle and a spontaneous transverse-electric mean field may appear. We point out that the single-mode approximation is crucial: the proper treatment has to be based on cavity QED, wherefore we present a systematic derivation of the dipole gauge inside a perfect Fabry-P\'erot cavity from first principles. Besides the impact on the debate around the Dicke phase transition, such a cleanup of the theoretical ground of cavity QED is important because currently there are many emerging experimental approaches to reach strong or even ultrastrong coupling between dipoles and photons, which demand a correct treatment of the Dicke model parameters.

id: 1206.0755
title: Quantum Markov Networks and Commuting Hamiltonians
authors: Winton Brown, David Poulin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0755
abstract: Quantum Markov networks are a generalization of quantum Markov chains to arbitrary graphs. They provide a powerful classification of correlations in quantum many-body systems---complementing the area law at finite temperature---and are therefore useful to understand the powers and limitations of certain classes of simulation algorithms. Here, we extend the characterization of quantum Markov networks and in particular prove the equivalence of positive quantum Markov networks and Gibbs states of Hamiltonians that are the sum of local commuting terms on graphs containing no triangles. For more general graphs we demonstrate the equivalence between quantum Markov networks and Gibbs states of a class of Hamiltonians of intermediate complexity between commuting and general local Hamiltonians.

id: 1206.0758
title: A meet-in-the-middle algorithm for fast synthesis of depth-optimal quantum circuits
authors: Matthew Amy, Dmitri Maslov, Michele Mosca, Martin Roetteler
comments: 23 pages, 15 figures, 1 table; To appear in IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems
journal: IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems 32(6): 818-830, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0758
abstract: We present an algorithm for computing depth-optimal decompositions of logical operations, leveraging a meet-in-the-middle technique to provide a significant speed-up over simple brute force algorithms. As an illustration of our method we implemented this algorithm and found factorizations of the commonly used quantum logical operations into elementary gates in the Clifford+T set. In particular, we report a decomposition of the Toffoli gate over the set of Clifford and T gates. Our decomposition achieves a total T-depth of 3, thereby providing a 40% reduction over the previously best known decomposition for the Toffoli gate. Due to the size of the search space the algorithm is only practical for small parameters, such as the number of qubits, and the number of gates in an optimal implementation.

id: 1206.0762
title: Demonstration of images with negative group velocities
authors: Ryan T. Glasser, Ulrich Vogl, Paul D. Lett
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 13, pp. 13702-13710 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0762
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of the superluminal propagation of multi-spatial-mode images via four-wave mixing in hot atomic vapor, in which all spatial sub-regions propagate with negative group velocities. We investigate the spatial mode properties and temporal reshaping of the fast light images, and show large relative pulse peak advancements of up to 64% of the input pulse width. The degree of temporal reshaping is quantified and increases as the relative pulse peak advancement increases. When optimized for image quality or pulse advancement, negative group velocities of up to $v_{g}=-\frac{c}{880}$ and $v_{g}=-\frac{c}{2180}$, respectively, are demonstrated when integrating temporally over the entire image. The present results are applicable to temporal cloaking devices that require strong manipulation of the dispersion relation, where one can envision temporally cloaking various spatial regions of an image for different durations. Additionally, the modes involved in a four-wave mixing process similar to the present experiment have been shown to exhibit quantum correlations and entanglement. The results presented here provide insight into how to tailor experimental tests of the behavior of these quantum correlations and entanglement in the superluminal regime.

id: 1206.0780
title: Coherent Diabatic Ion Transport and Separation in a Multi-Zone Trap Array
authors: R. Bowler, J. Gaebler, Y. Lin, T. R. Tan, D. Hanneke, J. D. Jost, J. P. Home, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0780
abstract: We investigate the motional dynamics of single and multiple ions during transport between and separation into spatially distinct locations in a multi-zone linear Paul trap. A single 9Be+ ion in a 2 MHz harmonic well located in one zone was laser-cooled to near its ground state of motion and transported 370 micrometers by moving the well to another zone. This was accomplished in 8 microseconds, corresponding to 16 periods of oscillation. Starting from a state with n=0.1 quanta, during transport the ion was excited to a displaced coherent state with n=1.6 quanta but on completion was returned close to its motional ground state with n=0.2. Similar results were achieved for the transport of two ions. We also separated chains of up to 9 ions from one potential well to two distinct potential wells. With two ions this was accomplished in 55 microseconds, with final excitations of about 2 quanta for each ion. Fast coherent transport and separation can significantly reduce the time overhead in certain architectures for scalable quantum information processing with trapped ions.

id: 1206.0785
title: The Quantum Frontier
authors: Joseph F. Fitzsimons, Eleanor G. Rieffel, Valerio Scarani
comments: Invited book chapter for Computation for Humanity - Information Technology to Advance Society to be published by CRC Press. Concepts clarified and style made more uniform in version 2. Many thanks to the referees for their suggestions for improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Literature (cs.GL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0785
abstract: The success of the abstract model of computation, in terms of bits, logical operations, programming language constructs, and the like, makes it easy to forget that computation is a physical process. Our cherished notions of computation and information are grounded in classical mechanics, but the physics underlying our world is quantum. In the early 80s researchers began to ask how computation would change if we adopted a quantum mechanical, instead of a classical mechanical, view of computation. Slowly, a new picture of computation arose, one that gave rise to a variety of faster algorithms, novel cryptographic mechanisms, and alternative methods of communication. Small quantum information processing devices have been built, and efforts are underway to build larger ones. Even apart from the existence of these devices, the quantum view on information processing has provided significant insight into the nature of computation and information, and a deeper understanding of the physics of our universe and its connections with computation. We start by describing aspects of quantum mechanics that are at the heart of a quantum view of information processing. We give our own idiosyncratic view of a number of these topics in the hopes of correcting common misconceptions and highlighting aspects that are often overlooked. A number of the phenomena described were initially viewed as oddities of quantum mechanics. It was quantum information processing, first quantum cryptography and then, more dramatically, quantum computing, that turned the tables and showed that these oddities could be put to practical effect. It is these application we describe next. We conclude with a section describing some of the many questions left for future work, especially the mysteries surrounding where the power of quantum information ultimately comes from.

id: 1206.0793
title: Quantum back-action in measurements of zero-point mechanical oscillations
authors: Farid Ya. Khalili, Haixing Miao, Huan Yang, Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Oskar Painter, Yanbei Chen
comments: 11 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0793
abstract: Measurement-induced back action, a direct consequence of the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle, is the defining feature of quantum measurements. We use quantum measurement theory to analyze the recent experiment of Safavi-Naeini et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 108}, 033602 (2012)], and show that results of this experiment not only characterize the zero-point fluctuation of a near-ground-state nanomechanical oscillator, but also demonstrate the existence of quantum back-action noise --- through correlations that exist between sensing noise and back-action noise. These correlations arise from the quantum coherence between the mechanical oscillator and the measuring device, which build up during the measurement process, and are key to improving sensitivities beyond the Standard Quantum Limit.

id: 1206.0797
title: Universal Critical Behavior in the Dicke Model
authors: Octavio Casta?os, Eduardo Nahmad-Achar, Ram¨®n L¨®pez-Pe?a, Jorge G. Hirsch
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 8, 023814 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0797
abstract: The critical value of the atom-field coupling strength for a finite number of atoms is deter- mined by means of both, semiclassical and exact solutions. In the semiclassical approach we use a variational procedure with coherent and symmetry-adapted states, while for the exact quantum solution the concept of fidelity is employed. These procedures allow for the determination of the phase transitions in the model, and coincide in the thermodynamic limit. For the three cases men- tioned above, universal parametric curves are obtained for the expectation values of both the first quadrature of the electromagnetic field, and the atomic relative population, as implicit functions of the atom-field coupling parameter, valid for the ground- and first-excited states.

id: 1206.0800
title: Proof of finite surface code threshold for matching
authors: Austin G. Fowler
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 180502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0800
abstract: The field of quantum computation currently lacks a formal proof of experimental feasibility. Qubits are fragile and sophisticated quantum error correction is required to achieve reliable quantum computation. The surface code is a promising quantum error correction code, requiring only a physically reasonable 2-D lattice of qubits with nearest neighbor interactions. However, existing proofs that reliable quantum computation is possible using this code assume the ability to measure four-body operators and, despite making this difficult to realize assumption, require that the error rate of these operator measurements is less than 10^-9, an unphysically low target. High error rates have been proved tolerable only when assuming tunable interactions of strength and error rate independent of distance, which is also unphysical. In this work, given a 2-D lattice of qubits with only nearest neighbor two-qubit gates, and single-qubit measurement, initialization, and unitary gates, all of which have error rate p, we prove that arbitrarily reliable quantum computation is possible provided p<7.4x10^-4, a target that many experiments have already achieved. This closes a long-standing open problem, formally proving the experimental feasibility of quantum computation under physically reasonable assumptions.

id: 1206.0809
title: Complex Numbers, One-Parameter of Unitary Transformations and Stone's Theorem in Topos Quantum Theory
authors: Wilson Brenna, Cecilia Flori
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0809
abstract: Topos theory has been suggested first by Isham and Butterfield, and then by Isham and Doering, as an alternative mathematical structure within which to formulate physical theories. In particular, it has been used to reformulate standard quantum mechanics in such a way that a novel type of logic is used to represent propositions. In recent years the topic has been considerably progressing with the introduction of probabilities, group and group transformations. In the present paper we will introduce a candidate for the complex quantity value object and analyse its relation to the real quantity value object. By defining the Grothendieck k-extension of these two objects, so as to turn them into abelian groups, it is possible to define internal one parameter groups in a topos. We then use this new definition to construct the topos analogue of the Stone's theorem.

id: 1206.0818
title: A New Method for Gravitational Wave Detection with Atomic Sensors
authors: Peter W. Graham, Jason M. Hogan, Mark A. Kasevich, Surjeet Rajendran
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.110:171102,2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0818
abstract: Laser frequency noise is a dominant noise background for the detection of gravitational waves using long-baseline optical interferometry. Amelioration of this noise requires near simultaneous strain measurements on more than one interferometer baseline, necessitating, for example, more than two satellites for a space-based detector, or two interferometer arms for a ground-based detector. We describe a new detection strategy based on recent advances in optical atomic clocks and atom interferometry which can operate at long-baselines and which is immune to laser frequency noise. Laser frequency noise is suppressed because the signal arises strictly from the light propagation time between two ensembles of atoms. This new class of sensor allows sensitive gravitational wave detection with only a single baseline. This approach also has practical applications in, for example, the development of ultra-sensitive gravimeters and gravity gradiometers.

id: 1206.0824
title: Effect of the heralding detector properties on the conditional generation of single-photon states
authors: Virginia D'Auria, Olivier Morin, Claude Fabre, Julien Laurat
comments: 
journal: European Physical Journal D 66, 10 (2012) 249
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0824
abstract: Single-photons play an important role in emerging quantum technologies and information processing. An efficient generation technique consists in preparing such states via a conditional measurement on photon-number correlated beams: the detection of a single-photon on one of the beam can herald the generation of a single-photon state on the other one. Such scheme strongly depends on the heralding detector properties, such as its quantum efficiency, noise or photon-number resolution ability. These parameters affect the preparation rate and the fidelity of the generated state. After reviewing the theoretical description of optical detectors and conditional measurements, and how both are here connected, we evaluate the effects of these properties and compare two kind of devices, a conventional on/off detector and a two-channel detector with photon-number resolution ability.

id: 1206.0829
title: Advantages of Coherent Feedback for Cooling Quantum Oscillators
authors: Ryan Hamerly, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0829
abstract: We model the cooling of open optical and optomechanical resonators via optical feedback in the Linear Quadratic Gaussian setting of stochastic control theory. We show that coherent feedback control schemes, in which the resonator is embedded in an interferometer to achieve all-optical feedback, can outperform the best possible measurement-based schemes in the quantum regime of low steady-state excitation number. Such performance gains are attributed to the coherent controller's ability to process non-commuting output field quadratures simultaneously without loss of fidelity, and may provide important clues for the design of coherent feedback schemes for more general problems of nonlinear and robust control.

id: 1206.0849
title: Unitary transfer of entanglement in multipartite two-level systems
authors: Riccardo Messina, Anna Napoli, Antonino Messina
comments: 5 pages
journal: Acta Phys. Hung. 23, 75 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0849
abstract: The dynamics of a system composed by two pairs of dipolarly coupled two-level atoms is exactly studied. We show that the initial entanglement stored in a couple of atoms not directly interacting is fully transferred to the other pair in a periodic way. The observability of this phenomenon in laboratory is briefly discussed both in terms of its temporal scale and of its stability against uncertainties in the geometrical parameters defining the physical system.

id: 1206.0881
title: Continuous deformations of the Grover walk preserving localization
authors: Martin Stefanak, Iva Bezdekova, Igor Jex
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 66 5 (2012) 142
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0881
abstract: The three-state Grover walk on a line exhibits the localization effect characterized by a non-vanishing probability of the particle to stay at the origin. We present two continuous deformations of the Grover walk which preserve its localization nature. The resulting quantum walks differ in the rate at which they spread through the lattice. The velocities of the left and right-traveling probability peaks are given by the maximum of the group velocity. We find the explicit form of peak velocities in dependence on the coin parameter. Our results show that localization of the quantum walk is not a singular property of an isolated coin operator but can be found for entire families of coins.

id: 1206.0884
title: Detecting mixedness of qutrit systems using the uncertainty relation
authors: S. Mal, T. Pramanik, A. S. Majumdar
comments: 7 pages, 2 figure, Eqs.(10) and (14) are corrected, and results and conclusions are unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012105 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0884
abstract: We show that the uncertainty relation as expressed in the Robertson-Schrodinger generalized form can be used to detect the mixedness of three-level quantum systems in terms of measureable expectation values of suitably chosen observables when prior knowledge about the basis of the given state is known. In particular, we demonstrate the existence of observables for which the generalized uncertainty relation is satisfied as an equality for pure states and a strict inequality for mixed states corresponding to single as well as bipartite sytems of qutrits. Examples of such observables are found for which the magnitude of uncertainty is proportional to the linear entropy of the system, thereby providing a method for measuring mixedness.

id: 1206.0899
title: Ultrathin Metallic Coatings Can Induce Quantum Levitation between Nanosurfaces
authors: Mathias Bostr?m, Barry W. Ninham, Iver Brevik, Clas Persson, Drew F. Parsons, Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: APPLIED PHYSICS LETTERS 100, 253104 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0899
abstract: There is an attractive Casimir-Lifshitz force between two silica surfaces in a liquid (bromobenze or toluene). We demonstrate that adding an ultrathin (5-50{\AA}) metallic nanocoating to one of the surfaces results in repulsive Casimir-Lifshitz forces above a critical separation. The onset of such quantum levitation comes at decreasing separations as the film thickness decreases. Remarkably the effect of retardation can turn attraction into repulsion. From that we explain how an ultrathin metallic coating may prevent nanoelectromechanical systems from crashing together.

id: 1206.0921
title: Operational theories and Categorical quantum mechanics
authors: Samson Abramsky, Chris Heunen
comments: 37 pages, updated bibliography
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0921
abstract: A central theme in current work in quantum information and quantum foundations is to see quantum mechanics as occupying one point in a space of possible theories, and to use this perspective to understand the special features and properties which single it out, and the possibilities for alternative theories. Two formalisms which have been used in this context are operational theories, and categorical quantum mechanics. The aim of the present paper is to establish strong connections between these two formalisms. We show how models of categorical quantum mechanics have representations as operational theories. We then show how nonlocality can be formulated at this level of generality, and study a number of examples from this point of view, including Hilbert spaces, sets and relations, and stochastic maps. The local, quantum, and no-signalling models are characterized in these terms.

id: 1206.0930
title: All-Optical Switching Demonstration using Two-Photon Absorption and the Classical Zeno Effect
authors: S. M. Hendrickson, C. N. Weiler, R. M. Camacho, P. T. Rakich, A. I. Young, M. J. Shaw, T. B. Pittman, J. D. Franson, B. C. Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0930
abstract: Low-contrast all-optical Zeno switching has been demonstrated in a silicon nitride microdisk resonator coupled to a hot atomic vapor. The device is based on the suppression of the field build-up within a microcavity due to non-degenerate two-photon absorption. This experiment used one beam in a resonator and one in free-space due to limitations related to device physics. These results suggest that a similar scheme with both beams resonant in the cavity would correspond to input power levels near 20 nW.

id: 1206.0936
title: Gaussian Post-selection for Continuous Variable Quantum Cryptography
authors: Nathan Walk, Thomas Symul, Ping Koy Lam, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 4+4 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1106.0825
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 87, 020303, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0936
abstract: We extend the security proof for continuous variable quantum key distribution protocols using post selection to account for arbitrary eavesdropping attacks by employing the concept of an equivalent protocol where the post-selection is implemented as a series of quantum operations including a virtual distillation. We introduce a particular `Gaussian' post selection and demonstrate that the security can be calculated using only experimentally accessible quantities. Finally we explicitly evaluate the performance for the case of a noisy Gaussian channel in the limit of unbounded key length and find improvements over all pre-existing continuous variable protocols in realistic regimes.

id: 1206.0944
title: Photon Blockade in the Ultrastrong Coupling Regime
authors: Alessandro Ridolfo, Martin Leib, Salvatore Savasta, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: minor revisions, supplementary information added, accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 193602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0944
abstract: We explore photon coincidence counting statistics in the ultrastrong-coupling regime where the atom-cavity coupling rate becomes comparable to the cavity resonance frequency. In this regime usual normal order correlation functions fail to describe the output photon statistics. By expressing the electric-field operator in the cavity-emitter dressed basis we are able to propose correlation functions that are valid for arbitrary degrees of light-matter interaction. Our results show that the standard photon blockade scenario is significantly modified for ultrastrong coupling. We observe parametric processes even for two-level emitters and temporal oscillations of intensity correlation functions at a frequency given by the ultrastrong photon emitter coupling. These effects can be traced back to the presence of two-photon cascade decays induced by counter-rotating interaction terms.

id: 1206.0965
title: General relativistic effects in quantum interference of photons
authors: Magdalena Zych, Fabio Costa, Igor Pikovski, Timothy C. Ralph, Caslav Brukner
comments: 16 pages, new appendix, published version
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29 (2012) 224010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0965
abstract: Quantum mechanics and general relativity have been extensively and independently confirmed in many experiments. However, the interplay of the two theories has never been tested: all experiments that measured the influence of gravity on quantum systems are consistent with non-relativistic, Newtonian gravity. On the other hand, all tests of general relativity can be described within the framework of classical physics. Here we discuss a quantum interference experiment with single photons that can probe quantum mechanics in curved space-time. We consider a single photon travelling in superposition along two paths in an interferometer, with each arm experiencing a different gravitational time dilation. If the difference in the time dilations is comparable with the photon's coherence time, the visibility of the quantum interference is predicted to drop, while for shorter time dilations the effect of gravity will result only in a relative phase shift between the two arms. We discuss what aspects of the interplay between quantum mechanics and general relativity are probed in such experiments and analyze the experimental feasibility.

id: 1206.0991
title: Self-correcting quantum memory with a boundary
authors: Adrian Hutter, James R. Wootton, Beat R?thlisberger, Daniel Loss
comments: 14+2 pages, 10 figures, revtex; v2: author added; v3: minor improvements, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052340 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0991
abstract: We study the two-dimensional toric code Hamiltonian with effective long-range interactions between its anyonic excitations induced by coupling the toric code to external fields. It has been shown that such interactions allow to increase the lifetime of the stored quantum information arbitrarily by making $L$, the linear size of the memory, larger [Phys. Rev. A 82 022305 (2010)]. We show that for these systems the choice of boundary conditions (open boundaries as opposed to periodic boundary conditions) is not a mere technicality; the influence of anyons produced at the boundaries becomes in fact dominant for large enough $L$. This influence can be both beneficial or detrimental. In particular, we study an effective Hamiltonian proposed in [Phys. Rev. B 83 115415 (2011)] that describes repulsion between anyons and anyon holes. For this system, we find a lifetime of the stored quantum information that grows exponentially in $L^2$ for both periodic and open boundary conditions, though the exponent in the latter case is found to be less favourable. However, $L$ is upper-bounded through the breakdown of the perturbative treatment of the underlying Hamiltonian.

id: 1206.1019
title: Critical Point Estimation and Long-Range Behavior in the One-Dimensional XY Model Using Thermal Quantum and Total Correlations
authors: B. ?akmak, G. Karpat, Z. Gedik
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 376, 2982 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1019
abstract: We investigate the thermal quantum and total correlations in the anisotropic XY spin chain in transverse field. While we adopt concurrence and geometric quantum discord to measure quantum correlations, we use measurement-induced nonlocality and an alternative quantity defined in terms of Wigner-Yanase information to quantify total correlations. We show that the ability of these measures to estimate the critical point at finite temperature strongly depend on the anisotropy parameter of the Hamiltonian. We also identify a correlation measure which detects the factorized ground state in this model. Furthermore, we study the effect of temperature on long-range correlations.

id: 1206.1035
title: Gaussian quantum computation with oracle-decision problems
authors: Mark Adcock, Peter Hoyer, Barry C. Sanders
comments: RevTeX4, 10 pages with 4 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing 12(4), 1759-1779 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1035
abstract: We study a simple-harmonic-oscillator quantum computer solving oracle decision problems. We show that such computers can perform better by using nonorthogonal Gaussian wave functions rather than orthogonal top-hat wave functions as input to the information encoding process. Using the Deutsch-Jozsa problem as an example, we demonstrate that Gaussian modulation with optimized width parameter results in a lower error rate than for the top-hat encoding. We conclude that Gaussian modulation can allow for an improved trade-off between encoding, processing and measurement of the information.

id: 1206.1084
title: Overview of Bohmian Mechanics
authors: Xavier Oriols, Jordi Mompart
comments: 76 pages. This paper includes the first chapter of the book "Applied Bohmian Mechanics: From Nanoscale Systems to Cosmology" (ISBN: 978-981-4316-39-2). The final version of the book, with eight additional chapters, has been published by Pan Stanford editorial and it can be ordered at: sales@panstanford.com
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1084
abstract: This chapter provides a comprehensive overview of the Bohmian formulation of quantum mechanics. It starts with a historical review of the difficulties found by Louis de Broglie, David Bohm, and John S. Bell to convince the scientific community about the validity and utility of Bohmian mechanics. Then, a formal explanation of Bohmian mechanics for nonrelativistic, single-particle quantum systems is presented. The generalization to many-particle systems, where the exchange interaction and the spin play an important role, is also presented. After that, the measurement process in Bohmian mechanics is discussed. It is emphasized that Bohmian mechanics exactly reproduces the mean value and temporal and spatial correlations obtained from the standard, that is the Copenhagen or orthodox, formulation. The ontological characteristics of Bohmian mechanics provide a description of measurements as another type of interaction without the need for introducing the wave function collapse. Several solved problems are presented at the end of the chapter, giving additional mathematical support to some particular issues. A detailed description of computational algorithms to obtain Bohmian trajectories from the numerical solution of the Schrodinger or the Hamilton-Jacobi equations are presented in an appendix. The motivation of this chapter is twofold: first, as a didactic introduction to Bohmian formalism, which is used in the subsequent chapters, and second, as a self-contained summary for any newcomer interested in using Bohmian mechanics in his or her daily research activity.

id: 1206.1104
title: Transformation of quantum photonic circuit models by term rewriting
authors: Gopal Sarma, Ryan Hamerly, Nikolas Tezak, Dmitri S. Pavlichin, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures. Supplementary Data included
journal: IEEE Photonics 5, 1 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1104
abstract: The development of practical methods for synthesis and verification of complex photonic circuits presents a grand challenge for the nascent field of quantum engineering. Of course, classical electrical engineering provides essential foundations and serves to illustrate the degree of sophistication that can be achieved in automated circuit design. In this paper we explore the utility of term rewriting approaches to the transformation of quantum circuit models, specifically applying rewrite rules for both reduction/verification and robustness analysis of photonic circuits for autonomous quantum error correction. We outline a workflow for quantum photonic circuit analysis that leverages the Modelica framework for multi-domain physical modeling, which parallels a previously described approach based on VHSIC Hardware Description Language (VHDL).

id: 1206.1119
title: Discrete Fourier-based Correlations for Entanglement Detection
authors: Ryo Namiki, Yuuki Tokunaga
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 230503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1119
abstract: We introduce two forms of correlations on two $d$-level (qudit) systems for entanglement detection. The correlations can be measured via experimentally tractable two local measurement settings and their separable bounds are determined by discrete Fourier-based uncertainty relations. They are useful to estimate lower bounds of the Schmidt number in order to clarify generation of a genuine qudit entanglement. We also present inseparable conditions for multi-qudit systems associated with the qudit stabilizer formalism as another role of the correlations on the inseparability problem.

id: 1206.1171
title: Entanglement dynamics of double Jaynes-Cummings interaction model based on geometric invariants
authors: Hoshang Heydari, Duy Hoang
comments: 7 pages
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings;Dec2012, Vol. 1508 Issue 1, p391
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1171
abstract: We investigate entanglement dynamics and properties of double Jaynes-Cummings model. In particular we study the dynamics of double Jaynes-Cummings model based on geometric invariants for four qubits. We show that these geometric invariants provide us with useful information about different types of entanglement during the quantum evolution of the system.

id: 1206.1202
title: Performance of various correlation measures in quantum renormalization-group method: A case study of quantum phase transition
authors: Yao Yao, Hong-Wei Li, Chun-Mei Zhang, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: Published version. 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042102 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1202
abstract: We have investigated quantum phase transition employing the quantum renormalization group (QRG) method while in most previous literature barely entanglement (concurrence) has been demonstrated. However, it is now well known that entanglement is not the only signature of quantum correlations and a variety of computable measures have been developed to characterize quantum correlations in the composite systems. As an illustration, two cases are elaborated: one dimensional anisotropic (i) XXZ model and (ii) XY model, with various measures of quantum correlations, including quantum discord (QD), geometric discord (GD), measure-induced disturbance (MID), measure-induced nonlocality (MIN) and violation of Bell inequalities (eg. CHSH inequality). We have proved that all these correlation measures can effectively detect the quantum critical points associated with quantum phase transitions (QPT) after several iterations of the renormalization in both cases. Nonetheless, it is shown that some of their dynamical behaviors are not totally similar with entanglement and even when concurrence vanishes there still exists some kind of quantum correlations which is not captured by entanglement. Intriguingly, CHSH inequality can never be violated in the whole iteration procedure, which indicates block-block entanglement can not revealed by the CHSH inequality. Moreover, the nonanalytic and scaling behaviors of Bell violation have also been discussed in detail. As a byproduct, we verify that measure-induced disturbance is exactly equal to the quantum discord measured by \sigma_z for general X-structured states.

id: 1206.1224
title: Entanglement control via reservoir engineering in ultracold atomic gases
authors: Suzanne McEndoo, Pinja Haikka, Gabriele de Chiara, Massimo Palma, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: EPL 101 (2013) 60005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1224
abstract: We study the entanglement of two impurity qubits immersed in a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) reservoir. This open quantum system is particularly interesting because the reservoir and system parameters are easily controllable and the reduced dynamics is highly non-Markovian. We show how the model allows for interpolation between a common dephasing scenario and an independent dephasing scenario by simply modifying the wavelength of the superlattice superposed to the BEC, and how this influences the dynamical properties of the impurities. We demonstrate the existence of very rich entanglement dynamics correspondent to different values of reservoir parameters, including phenomena such as entanglement trapping, entanglement sudden death, revivals of entanglement, and BEC-mediated entanglement generation. In the spirit of reservoir engineering, we present the optimal BEC parameters for entanglement generation and trapping, showing the key role of the ultracold gas interactions.

id: 1206.1237
title: Virtual Particle Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics - a non-dualistic model of QM with a natural probability interpretation
authors: Janne Mikael Karim?ki
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1237
abstract: An interpretation of non-relativistic quantum mechanics is presented in the spirit of Erwin Madelung's hydrodynamic formulation of QM and Louis de Broglie's and David Bohm's pilot wave models. The aims of the approach are as follows: 1) to have a clear ontology for QM, 2) to describe QM in a causal way, 3) to get rid of the wave-particle dualism in pilot wave theories, 4) to provide a theoretical framework for describing creation and annihilation of particles, and 5) to provide a possible connection between particle QM and virtual particles in QFT. These goals are achieved, if the wave function is replaced by a fluid of so called virtual particles. It is also assumed that in this fluid of virtual particles exist a few real particles and that only these real particles can be directly observed. This has relevance for the measurement problem in QM and it is found that quantum probabilities arise in a very natural way from the structure of the theory. The model presented here is very similar to a recent computational model of quantum physics and recent Bohmian models of QFT.

id: 1206.1265
title: Photon Shot Noise Dephasing in the Strong-Dispersive Limit of Circuit QED
authors: A. P. Sears, A. Petrenko, G. Catelani, L. Sun, Hanhee Paik, G. Kirchmair, L. Frunzio, L. I. Glazman, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; includes Supporting Online Material of 6 pages with 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 180504(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1265
abstract: We study the photon shot noise dephasing of a superconducting transmon qubit in the strong-dispersive limit, due to the coupling of the qubit to its readout cavity. As each random arrival or departure of a photon is expected to completely dephase the qubit, we can control the rate at which the qubit experiences dephasing events by varying \textit{in situ} the cavity mode population and decay rate. This allows us to verify a pure dephasing mechanism that matches theoretical predictions, and in fact explains the increased dephasing seen in recent transmon experiments as a function of cryostat temperature. We investigate photon dynamics in this limit and observe large increases in coherence times as the cavity is decoupled from the environment. Our experiments suggest that the intrinsic coherence of small Josephson junctions, when corrected with a single Hahn echo, is greater than several hundred microseconds.

id: 1206.1287
title: Weak randomness completely trounces the security of QKD
authors: Jan Bouda, Matej Pivoluska, Martin Plesch, Colin Wilmott
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062308 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1287
abstract: In usual security proofs of quantum protocols the adversary (Eve) is expected to have full control over any quantum communication between any communicating parties (Alice and Bob). Eve is also expected to have full access to an authenticated classical channel between Alice and Bob. Unconditional security against any attack by Eve can be proved even in the realistic setting of device and channel imperfection. In this Letter we show that the security of QKD protocols is ruined if one allows Eve to possess a very limited access to the random sources used by Alice. Such knowledge should always be expected in realistic experimental conditions via different side channels.

id: 1206.1296
title: Improved qubit bifurcation readout in the straddling regime of circuit QED
authors: Maxime Boissonneault, J. M. Gambetta, A. Blais
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022326 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1296
abstract: We study bifurcation measurement of a multi-level superconducting qubit using a nonlinear resonator biased in the straddling regime, where the resonator frequency sits between two qubit transition frequencies. We find that high-fidelity bifurcation measurements are possible because of the enhanced qubit-state-dependent pull of the resonator frequency, the behavior of qubit-induced nonlinearities and the reduced Purcell decay rate of the qubit that can be realized in this regime. Numerical simulations find up to a threefold improvement in qubit readout fidelity when operating in, rather than outside of, the straddling regime. High-fidelity measurements can be obtained at much smaller qubit-resonator couplings than current typical experimental realizations, reducing spectral crowding and potentially simplifying the implementation of multi-qubit devices.

id: 1206.1307
title: Non-Additivity of the Entanglement of Purification (Beyond Reasonable Doubt)
authors: Jianxin Chen, Andreas Winter
comments: 5 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1307
abstract: We demonstrate the convexity of the difference between the regularized entanglement of purification and the entropy, as a function of the state. This is proved by means of a new asymptotic protocol to prepare a state from pre-shared entanglement and by local operations only. We go on to employ this convexity property in an investigation of the additivity of the (single-copy) entanglement of purification: using numerical results for two-qubit Werner states we find strong evidence that the entanglement of purification is different from its regularization, hence that entanglement of purification is not additive.

id: 1206.1315
title: Manipulation of qubits in non-orthogonal collective storage modes
authors: Jonas Refsgaard, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1315
abstract: We present an analysis of transfer of quantum information between the collective spin degrees of freedom of a large ensemble of two-level systems and a single central qubit. The coupling between the central qubit and the individual ensemble members may be varied and thus provides access to more than a single storage mode. Means to store and manipulate several independent qubits are derived for the case where the variation in coupling strengths does not allow addressing of orthogonal modes of the ensemble. While our procedures and analysis may apply to a number of different physical systems, for concreteness, we study the transfer of quantum states between a single electron spin and an ensemble of nuclear spins in a quantum dot.

id: 1206.1351
title: Decoherence and Loss of Entanglement in Acoustic Black Holes
authors: Fernando C. Lombardo, Gustavo J. Turiaci
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 261301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1351
abstract: We studied the process of decoherence in acoustic black holes. We focused on the ion trap model proposed by Horstmann et al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 250403 (2010)) but the formalism is general to any experimental implementation. For that particular setup, we computed the decoherence time for the experimental parameters that they proposed. We found that a quantum to classical transition occurs during the measurement and we proposed improved parameters to avoid such a feature. We also studied the entanglement between the Hawking-pair phonons for an acoustic black hole while in contact with a reservoir, through the quantum correlations, showing that they remain strongly correlated for small enough times and temperatures.

id: 1206.1403
title: Relative momentum for identical particles
authors: B. Gaveau, L. S. Schulman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1403
abstract: Possible definitions for the relative momentum of identical particles are considered.

id: 1206.1410
title: Hybrid quantum-classical models as constrained quantum systems
authors: M. Radonjic, S. Prvanovic, N. Buric
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A 85, 064101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1410
abstract: Constrained Hamiltonian description of the classical limit is utilized in order to derive consistent dynamical equations for hybrid quantum-classical systems. Starting with a compound quantum system in the Hamiltonian formulation conditions for classical behavior are imposed on one of its subsystems and the corresponding hybrid dynamical equations are derived. The presented formalism suggests that the hybrid systems have properties that are not exhausted by those of quantum and classical systems.

id: 1206.1432
title: Popper's Experiment: A Modern Perspective
authors: Tabish Qureshi
comments: Review article (11 pages, 2-column) published version
journal: Quanta 1 (2012) 19-32
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1432
abstract: Karl Popper had proposed an experiment to test the standard interpretation of quantum mechanics. The proposal survived for many year in the midst of no clear consensus on what results it would yield. The experiment was realized by Kim and Shih in 1999, and the apparently surprising result led to lot of debate. We review Popper's proposal and its realization in the light of current era when entanglement has been well studied, both theoretically and experimentally. We show that the "ghost-diffraction" experiment, carried out in a different context, conclusively resolves the controversy surrounding Popper's experiment.

id: 1206.1487
title: Symmetric discrete coherent states for n qubits
authors: C. Munoz, A. B. Klimov, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: Published in J. Phys. A. Special issue on Coherent States
journal: J. Phys. A 45, 244014 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1487
abstract: We put forward a method of constructing discrete coherent states for n qubits. After establishing appropriate displacement operators, the coherent states appear as displaced versions of a fiducial vector that is fixed by imposing a number of natural symmetry requirements on its Q-function. Using these coherent states we establish a partial order in the discrete phase space, which allows us to picture some n-qubit states as apparent distributions. We also analyze correlations in terms of sums of squared Q-functions.

id: 1206.1503
title: Review on recent groundbreaking experiments on quantum communication with orthogonal states
authors: A. Avella, G. Brida, D. Carpentras, A. Cavanna, I. P. Degiovanni, M. Genovese, M. Gramegna, P. Traina
comments: 
journal: Quantum Matter 2, 153-166 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1503
abstract: In recent years Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) has emerged as the most paradigmatic example of Quantum technology allowing the realization of intrinsically secure communication links over hundreds of kilometers. Beyond its commercial interest QKD also has high conceptual relevance in the study of quantum information theory and the foundations of quantum mechanics. In particular, the discussion on the minimal resources needed in order to obtain absolutely secure quantum communication is yet to be concluded. Here we present an overview on our last experimental results concerning two novel quantum cryptographic schemes which do not require some of the most widely accepted conditions for realizing QKD. The first is Goldenberg-Vaidman protocol \cite{v}, in which even if only orthogonal states (that in general can be cloned without altering the state) are used, any eavesdropping attempt is detectable. The second is N09 protocol \cite{no} which, being based on the quantum counterfactual effect, does not even require any actual photon transmission in the quantum channel between the parties for the communication.

id: 1206.1537
title: Quasi non-Markovian approach to the study of decoherence of a controlled-not quantum gate in a chain of few nuclear spins quantum computer
authors: Pablo L¨®pez, Gustavo L¨®pez
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1537
abstract: We develop in the weak coupling approximation a quasi-non-Markovian master equation and study the phenomenon of decoherence during the operation of a controlled-not (CNOT) quantum gate in a quantum computer model formed by a linear chain of three nuclear spins system with second neighbor Ising interaction between them. We compare with the behavior of the Markovian counterpart for temperature different from zero (thermalization) and at zero temperature for low and high dissipation rates. At low dissipation there is a very small difference between Markovian and quasi no-Markovian at any temperature which is unlikely to be measured, and at high dissipation there is a difference which is likely to be measured at any temperature.

id: 1206.1566
title: Non-Pauli Observables for CWS Codes
authors: Douglas F. G. Santiago, Renato Portugal, Nolmar Melo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1566
abstract: It is known that nonadditive quantum codes are more optimal for error correction when compared to stabilizer codes. The class of codeword stabilized codes (CWS) provides tools to obtain new nonadditive quantum codes by reducing the problem to finding nonlinear classical codes. In this work, we establish some results on the kind of non-Pauli operators that can be used as decoding observables for CWS codes and describe a procedure to obtain these observables.

id: 1206.1576
title: A quantitative aspect of the Heisenberg uncertainty
authors: A. K. Khitrin
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1576
abstract: Minimization of the expectation value of energy under the constraints imposed by the uncertainty principle can be a convenient method of solving quantum-mechanical problems.

id: 1206.1598
title: Qudit versions of the qubit "pi-over-eight" gate
authors: Mark Howard, Jiri Vala
comments: Version 2 changed to reflect improved distillation routines in arXiv:1205.3104v2. Minor typos fixed. 12 Pages,2 Figures,3 Tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022316 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1598
abstract: When visualised as an operation on the Bloch sphere, the qubit "pi-over-eight" gate corresponds to one-eighth of a complete rotation about the vertical axis. This simple gate often plays an important role in quantum information theory, typically in situations for which Pauli and Clifford gates are insufficient. Most notably, when it supplements the set of Clifford gates then universal quantum computation can be achieved. The "pi-over-eight" gate is the simplest example of an operation from the third level of the Clifford hierarchy (i.e., it maps Pauli operations to Clifford operations under conjugation). Here we derive explicit expressions for all qudit (d-level, where d is prime) versions of this gate and analyze the resulting group structure that is generated by these diagonal gates. This group structure differs depending on whether the dimensionality of the qudit is two, three or greater than three. We then discuss the geometrical relationship of these gates (and associated states) with respect to Clifford gates and stabilizer states. We present evidence that these gates are maximally robust to depolarizing and phase damping noise, in complete analogy with the qubit case. Motivated by this and other similarities we conjecture that these gates could be useful for the task of qudit magic-state distillation and, by extension, fault-tolerant quantum computing. Very recent, independent work by Campbell, Anwar and Browne confirms the correctness of this intuition, and we build upon their work to characterize noise regimes for which noisy implementations of these gates can (or provably cannot) supplement Clifford gates to enable universal quantum computation.

id: 1206.1609
title: Classification of topologically protected gates for local stabilizer codes
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Robert Koenig
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 170503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1609
abstract: Given a quantum error correcting code, an important task is to find encoded operations that can be implemented efficiently and fault-tolerantly. In this Letter we focus on topological stabilizer codes and encoded unitary gates that can be implemented by a constant-depth quantum circuit. Such gates have a certain degree of protection since propagation of errors in a constant-depth circuit is limited by a constant size light cone. For the 2D geometry we show that constant-depth circuits can only implement a finite group of encoded gates known as the Clifford group. This implies that topological protection must be "turned off" for at least some steps in the computation in order to achieve universality. For the 3D geometry we show that an encoded gate U is implementable by a constant-depth circuit only if the image of any Pauli operator under conjugation by U belongs to the Clifford group. This class of gates includes some non-Clifford gates such as the \pi/8 rotation. Our classification applies to any stabilizer code with geometrically local stabilizers and sufficiently large code distance.

id: 1206.1666
title: $\hbar$-expansion for the Schr?dinger equation with a position-dependent mass
authors: D. A. Kulikov, V. M. Shapoval
comments: 10 pages, translated version of a paper: D.A. Kulikov, V.M. Shapoval, J.Phys.Stud. 15 (2011) 4001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1666
abstract: A recursion technique of obtaining the asymptotical expansions for the bound-state energy eigenvalues of the radial Schr\"odinger equation with a position-dependent mass is presented. As an example of the application we calculate the energy eigenvalues for the Coulomb potential in the presence of position-dependent mass and we derive the inequalities regulating the shifts of the energy levels from their constant-mass positions.

id: 1206.1691
title: Optimally robust shortcuts to population inversion in two-level quantum systems
authors: A. Ruschhaupt, Xi Chen, D. Alonso, J. G. Muga
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 093040 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1691
abstract: We examine the stability versus different types of perturbations of recently proposed shortcuts-to-adiabaticity to speed up the population inversion of a two-level quantum system. We find optimally robust processes using invariant based engineering of the Hamiltonian. Amplitude noise and systematic errors require different optimal protocols.

id: 1206.1726
title: Genuine correlations in finite-size spin systems
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi, Thomas Busch
comments: Submitted to Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems" edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1726
abstract: Genuine multipartite correlations in finite-size XY chains are studied as a function of the applied external magnetic field. We find that, for low temperatures, multipartite correlations are sensitive to the parity change in the Hamiltonian ground state, given that they exhibit a minimum every time that the ground state becomes degenerate. This implies that they can be used to detect the factorizing point, that is, the value of the external field such that, in the termodynamical limit, the ground state becomes the tensor product of single-spin states.

id: 1206.1740
title: Secure bit commitment from relativistic constraints
authors: J?drzej Kaniewski, Marco Tomamichel, Esther H?nggi, Stephanie Wehner
comments: published version, IEEE format, 18 pages, 8 figures
journal: IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory 59, 4687-4699 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1740
abstract: We investigate two-party cryptographic protocols that are secure under assumptions motivated by physics, namely relativistic assumptions (no-signalling) and quantum mechanics. In particular, we discuss the security of bit commitment in so-called split models, i.e. models in which at least some of the parties are not allowed to communicate during certain phases of the protocol. We find the minimal splits that are necessary to evade the Mayers-Lo-Chau no-go argument and present protocols that achieve security in these split models. Furthermore, we introduce the notion of local versus global command, a subtle issue that arises when the split committer is required to delegate non-communicating agents to open the commitment. We argue that classical protocols are insecure under global command in the split model we consider. On the other hand, we provide a rigorous security proof in the global command model for Kent's quantum protocol [Kent 2011, Unconditionally Secure Bit Commitment by Transmitting Measurement Outcomes]. The proof employs two fundamental principles of modern physics, the no-signalling property of relativity and the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics.

id: 1206.1788
title: Optical force acting on strongly driven atoms in free space or modified reservoirs
authors: Mihai A. Macovei
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 045502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1788
abstract: We investigate the quantum dynamics of a moderately driven two-level particle in free space or modified electromagnetic field reservoir. Particularly, we calculate the optical force acting on the radiator in such an environment. We found that the modified environmental reservoir influences significantly the optical force. Very intense driving in free space also modifies the maximal force.

id: 1206.1807
title: Non-Gaussian quantum discord for Gaussian states
authors: Paolo Giorda, Michele Allegra, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures (3 appendices)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1807
abstract: In recent years the paradigm based on entanglement as the unique measure of quantum correlations has been challenged by the rise of new correlation concepts, such as quantum discord, able to reveal quantum correlations that are present in separable states. It is in general difficult to compute quantum discord, because it involves a minimization over all possible local measurements in a bipartition. In the realm of continuous variable (CV) systems, a Gaussian version of quantum discord has been put forward upon restricting to Gaussian measurements. It is natural to ask whether non-Gaussian measurements can lead to a stronger minimization than Gaussian ones. Here we focus on two relevant classes of two-mode Gaussian states: squeezed thermal states (STS) and mixed thermal states (MTS), and allow for a range of experimentally feasible non-Gaussian measurements, comparing the results with the case of Gaussian measurements. We provide evidence that Gaussian measurements are optimal for Gaussian states.

id: 1206.1813
title: Dynamical stabilization and time in open quantum systems
authors: Ingrid Rotter
comments: Contribution to the Special Issue "Quantum Physics with Non-Hermitian Operators: Theory and Experiment", Fortschritte der Physik - Progress of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1813
abstract: The meaning of time in an open quantum system is considered under the assumption that both, system and environment, are quantum mechanical objects. The Hamilton operator of the system is non-Hermitian. Its imaginary part is the time operator. As a rule, time and energy vary continuously when controlled by a parameter. At high level density, where many states avoid crossing, a dynamical phase transition takes place in the system under the influence of the environment. It causes a dynamical stabilization of the system what can be seen in many different experimental data. Due to this effect, time is bounded from below: the decay widths (inverse proportional to the lifetimes of the states) do not increase limitless. The dynamical stabilization is an irreversible process.

id: 1206.1847
title: A novel nontrivial bosonic representation of spin operators in the large $N$ limit at high temperatures
authors: Yamen Hamdouni
comments: 12 pages, preprint, notation improved, typos fixed, worked illustrative example added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 425301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1847
abstract: We report on a nontrivial bosonization scheme for spin operators. It is shown that in the large $N$ limit, at infinite temperature, the operators $\sum_{k=1}^N \hat s_{k\pm}/\sqrt{N}$ behave like the creation and annihilation operators, $a^\dag$ and $a$, corresponding to a harmonic oscillator in thermal equilibrium, whose temperature and frequency are related by $\hbar\omega/k_B T=\ln 3$. The $z$ component is found to be equivalent to the position variable of another harmonic oscillator occupying its ground Gaussian state at zero temperature. The obtained results are applied to the Heisenberg XY Hamiltonian at finite temperature.

id: 1206.1870
title: Exploring Macroscopic Entanglement with a Single Photon and Coherent States
authors: Pavel Sekatski, Nicolas Sangouard, Magdalena Stobinska, Felix Bussieres, Mikael Afzelius, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 6 pages, 10 figures. v2: Updated version. The corresponding experiment is reported in arXiv:1212.3710. See also arXiv:1306.0843
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 060301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1870
abstract: Entanglement between macroscopically populated states can easily be created by combining a single photon and a bright coherent state on a beam-splitter. Motivated by the simplicity of this technique, we report on a method using displacement operations in the phase space and basic photon detections to reveal such an entanglement. We demonstrate through preliminary experimental results, that this eminently feasible approach provides an attractive way for exploring entanglement at various scales, ranging from one to a thousand photons. This offers an instructive viewpoint to gain insight into the reasons that make it hard to observe quantum features in our macroscopic world.

id: 1206.1908
title: Genuine Correlations of Tripartite System
authors: Liming Zhao, Xueyuan Hu, R.-H. Yue, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1908
abstract: We define genuine total, classical and quantum correlations in tripartite systems. The measure we propose is based on the idea that genuine tripartite correlation exists if and only if the correlation between any bipartition does not vanish. We find in a symmetrical tripartite state, for total correlation and classical correlation, the genuine tripartite correlations are no less than pair-wise correlations. However, the genuine quantum tripartite correlation can be surpassed by the pair-wise quantum correlations. Analytical expressions for genuine tripartite correlations are obtained for pure states and rank-2 symmetrical states. The genuine correlations in both entangled and separable states are calculated.

id: 1206.1914
title: Noisy channel effect on quantum correlations of two relativistic particles
authors: M.Mahdian, T.Makaremi, Sh.Salimi
comments: 9 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1914
abstract: We study the quantum correlation dynamics of two relativistic particles which is transmitted through one of the Pauli channels $ \sigma_{x}, \sigma_{y},$ and $\sigma_{z}$. We compare sudden death and robustness of entanglement and geometric discord and quantum discord of two relativistic particles under noisy Pauli channels. we find out geometric discord and quantum discord may be more robust than entanglement against decoherence.

id: 1206.1931
title: Quantum graph as a quantum spectral filter
authors: Ond?ej Turek, Taksu Cheon
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures. Copyright (2013) American Institute of Physics. This article may be downloaded for personal use only. Any other use requires prior permission of the author and the American Institute of Physics
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 032104 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1931
abstract: We study the transmission of a quantum particle along a straight input--output line to which a graph $\Gamma$ is attached at a point. In the point of contact we impose a singularity represented by a certain properly chosen scale-invariant coupling with a coupling parameter $\alpha$. We show that the probability of transmission along the line as a function of the particle energy tends to the indicator function of the energy spectrum of $\Gamma$ as $\alpha\to\infty$. This effect can be used for a spectral analysis of the given graph $\Gamma$. Its applications include a control of a transmission along the line and spectral filtering. The result is illustrated with an example where $\Gamma$ is a loop exposed to a magnetic field. Two more quantum devices are designed using other special scale-invariant vertex couplings. They can serve as a band-stop filter and as a spectral separator, respectively.

id: 1206.1946
title: Decoherent histories of quantum searching
authors: Wim van Dam, Hieu D. Nguyen
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1946
abstract: The theory of decoherent histories is an attempt to derive classical physics from positing only quantum laws at the fundamental level without notions of a classical apparatus or collapse of the wave-function. Searching for a marked target in a list of N items requires \Omega(N) oracle queries when using a classical computer, while a quantum computer can accomplish the same task in O{\sqrt{N}} queries using Grover's quantum algorithm. We study a closed quantum system executing Grover algorithm in the framework of decoherent histories and find it to be an exactly solvable model, thus yielding an alternate derivation of Grover's famous result. We also subject the Grover-executing computer to a generic external influence without needing to know the specifics of the Hamiltonian insofar as the histories decohere. Depending on the amount of decoherence, which is captured in our model by a single parameter related to the amount of information obtained by the environment, the search time can range from quantum to classical. Thus, we identify a key effect induced by the environment that can adversely affect a quantum computer's performance and demonstrate exactly how classical computing can emerge from quantum laws.

id: 1206.1954
title: Lossy Quantum Optical Metrology with Squeezed States
authors: Xiao-Xiao Zhang, Yu-Xiang Yang, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013838 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1954
abstract: We study the precise phase estimation using squeezed states with photon losses present. Our exact quantum Fisher information calculation shows significant quantum enhancement and thus reveals the benchmark for practical quantum metrology in this noisy scenario. However, we find that the existing parity measurement scheme [P.M. Anisimov et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 103602 (2010)] behaves worse than even classical cases given very small losses, unless we take an appropriate loss dependent phase shift. Using our formulae, the two optimized aspects including the pre-detection phase shift and the consequent light intensity of a tradeoff strategy for photon resource arrangement can be both calculated. Therefore our result makes it possible to experimentally realize quantum metrology of phase estimation with squeezed states.

id: 1206.2002
title: Steady Schr?dinger cat state of a driven Ising chain
authors: S. Camalet
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 86 176 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2002
abstract: For short-range interacting systems, no Schr\"odinger cat state can be stable when their environment is in thermal equilibrium. We show, by studying a chain of two-level systems with nearest-neighbour Ising interactions, that this is possible when the surroundings consists of two heat reservoirs at different temperatures, or of a heat reservoir and a monochromatic field. The asymptotic state of the considered system can be a pure superposition of mesoscopically distinct states, the all-spin-up and all-spin-down states, at low temperatures. The main feature of our model leading to this result is the fact that the Hamiltonian of the chain and the dominant part of its coupling to the environment obey the same symmetry.

id: 1206.2021
title: String tension and area-law probed using quantum superposition
authors: Erez Zohar, Benni Reznik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2021
abstract: We propose a method for measuring the string tension in gauge theories, by considering an interference effect of mesons, which is governed by a space-time area law, due to confinement. Although it is only a gedanken experiment for real elementary particles, in the context of quantum simulations of confining gauge theories such an experiment can be realized.

id: 1206.2031
title: Demonstration of entanglement-by-measurement of solid state qubits
authors: Wolfgang Pfaff, Tim H. Taminiau, Lucio Robledo, Hannes Bernien, Matthew L. Markham, Daniel J. Twitchen, Ronald Hanson
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Phys. 9, 29-33 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2031
abstract: Projective measurements are a powerful tool for manipulating quantum states. In particular, a set of qubits can be entangled by measurement of a joint property such as qubit parity. These joint measurements do not require a direct interaction between qubits and therefore provide a unique resource for quantum information processing with well-isolated qubits. Numerous schemes for entanglement-by-measurement of solid-state qubits have been proposed, but the demanding experimental requirements have so far hindered implementations. Here we realize a two-qubit parity measurement on nuclear spins in diamond by exploiting the electron spin of a nitrogen-vacancy center as readout ancilla. The measurement enables us to project the initially uncorrelated nuclear spins into maximally entangled states. By combining this entanglement with high-fidelity single-shot readout we demonstrate the first violation of Bells inequality with solid-state spins. These results open the door to a new class of experiments in which projective measurements are used to create, protect and manipulate entanglement between solid-state qubits.

id: 1206.2042
title: Protocol for direct counterfactual quantum communication
authors: Hatim Salih, Zheng-Hong Li, M. Al-Amri, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.110,170502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2042
abstract: It has long been assumed in physics that for information to travel between two parties in empty space, "Alice" and "Bob", physical particles have to travel between them. Here, using the "chained" quantum Zeno effect, we show how, in the ideal asymptotic limit, information can be transferred between Alice and Bob without any physical particles traveling between them.

id: 1206.2071
title: Relativistic Coulomb Integrals and Zeilberger's Holonomic Systems Approach. I
authors: Peter Paule, Sergei K. Suslov
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2071
abstract: With the help of computer algebra we study the diagonal matrix elements <Or^p>, where O are the standard Dirac matrix operators and the angular brackets denote the quantum-mechanical average for the relativistic Coulomb problem. Using Zeilberger's extension of Gosper's algorithm and a variant to it, three-term recurrence relations for each of these expectation values are derived together with some transformation formulas for the corresponding generalized hypergeometric series. In addition, the virial recurrence relations for these integrals are also found and proved algorithmically.

id: 1206.2076
title: Toward quantum simulations of biological information flow
authors: Ross Dorner, John Goold, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 8 Pages, 2 Figures, Non-technical contributing article for the Interface Focus Theme Issue `Computability and the Turning centenary'. Interface Focus this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2076
abstract: Recent advances in the spectroscopy of biomolecules have highlighted the possibility of quantum coherence playing an active role in biological energy transport. The revelation that quantum coherence can survive in the hot and wet environment of biology has generated a lively debate across both the physics and biology communities. In particular, it remains unclear to what extent non-trivial quantum effects are utilised in biology and what advantage, if any, they afford. We propose an analogue quantum simulator, based on currently available techniques in ultra-cold atom physics, to study a model of energy and electron transport based on the Holstein Hamiltonian By simulating the salient aspects of a biological system in a tunable laboratory setup, we hope to gain insight into the validity of several theoretical models of biological quantum transport in a variety of relevant parameter regimes.

id: 1206.2096
title: Exploring multipartite quantum correlations with the square of quantum discord
authors: Yan-Kui Bai, Na Zhang, Ming-Yong Ye, Z. D. Wang
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012123 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2096
abstract: We explore the quantum correlation distribution in multipartite quantum states based on the square of quantum discord (SQD). For tripartite quantum systems, we derive the necessary and sufficient condition for the SQD to satisfy the monogamy relation. Particularly, we prove that the SQD is monogamous for three-qubit pure states, based on which a genuine tripartite quantum correlation measure is introduced. In addition, we also address the quantum correlation distributions in four-qubit pure states. As an example, we investigate multipartite quantum correlations in the dynamical evolution of multipartite cavity-reservoir systems.

id: 1206.2104
title: Laser-induced bound-state phases in high-order harmonic generation
authors: Adam Etches, Mette B. Gaarde, Lars Bojer Madsen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2104
abstract: We present single-molecule and macroscopic calculations showing that laser-induced Stark shifts contribute significantly to the phase of high-order harmonics from polar molecules. This is important for orbital tomography, where phases of field-free dipole matrix elements are needed in order to reconstruct molecular orbitals. We derive an analytical expression that allows the first-order Stark phase to be subtracted from experimental measurements.

id: 1206.2117
title: Split Kinetic Energy Method for Quantum Systems with Competing Potentials
authors: H. Mineo, Sheng D. Chao
comments: 30 pages, 6 fugures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2117
abstract: For quantum systems with competing potentials, the conventional perturbation theory often yields an asymptotic series and the subsequent numerical outcome becomes uncertain. To tackle such kind of problems, we develop a general solution scheme based on a new energy dissection idea. Instead of dividing the potential energy into "unperturbed" and "perturbed" terms, a partition of the kinetic energy is performed. By distributing the kinetic energy term in part into each individual potential, the Hamiltonian can be expressed as the sum of the subsystem Hamiltonians with respective competing potentials. The total wavefunction is expanded by using a linear combination of the basis sets of respective subsystem Hamiltonians. We first illustrate the solution procedure using a simple system consisting of a particle under the action of double delta-function potentials. Next, this method is applied to the prototype systems of a charged harmonic oscillator in strong magnetic field and the hydrogen molecule ion. Compared with the usual perturbation approach, this new scheme converges much faster to the exact solutions for both eigenvalues and eigenfunctions. When properly extended, this new solution scheme can be very useful for dealing with strongly coupling quantum systems.

id: 1206.2141
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations from colliding Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Johannes Kofler, Mandip Singh, Maximilian Ebner, Michael Keller, Mateusz Kotyrba, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032115 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2141
abstract: We propose an experiment which can demonstrate quantum correlations in a physical scenario as discussed in the seminal work of Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen. Momentum-entangled massive particles are produced via the four-wave mixing process of two colliding Bose-Einstein condensates. The particles' quantum correlations can be shown in a double double-slit experiment or via ghost interference.

id: 1206.2159
title: Necessary and sufficient conditions for local creation of quantum discord
authors: Yu Guo, Jinchuan Hou
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 155301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2159
abstract: We show that a local channel cannot create quantum discord (QD) for zero QD states of size $d\geq3$ if and only if either it is a completely decohering channel or it is a nontrivial isotropic channel. For the qubit case this propertiy is additionally characteristic to the completely decohering channel or the commutativity-preserving unital channel. In particular, the exact forms of the completely decohering channel and the commutativity-preserving unital qubit channel are proposed. Consequently, our results confirm and improve the conjecture proposed by X. Hu et al. for the case of $d\geq3$ and improve the result proposed by A. Streltsov et al. for the qubit case. Furthermore, it is shown that a local channel nullifies QD in any state if and only if it is a completely decohering channel. Based on our results, some protocols of quantum information processing issues associated with QD, especially for the qubit case, would be experimentally accessible.

id: 1206.2162
title: Avoided level crossings in open quantum systems
authors: Hichem Eleuch, Ingrid Rotter
comments: Contribution to the Special Issue "Quantum Physics with Non-Hermitian Operators: Theory and Experiment", Fortschritte der Physik - Progress of Physics 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2162
abstract: At high level density, two states avoid usually crossing at the critical value $a_{\rm cr}$ of the parameter $a$ by which the system is controlled. The wavefunctions of the two states are mixed in a finite parameter range around $a_{\rm cr}$. This holds true for discrete states as well as for narrow resonance states which are coupled via the environment of scattering wavefunctions. We study the influence of avoided level crossings onto four overlapping complex eigenvalues of a symmetric non-Hermitian operator. The mixing of the two wavefunctions around $a_{\rm cr}$ is simulated, in each case, by assuming a Gaussian distribution around $a_{\rm cr}$. At high level density, the Gaussian distributions related to avoided crossings of different levels may overlap. Here, new effects arise, especially from the imaginary part of the coupling term via the environment. The results show, moreover, the influence of symmetries onto the multi-level avoided crossing phenomenon.

id: 1206.2256
title: Analysis and minimization of bending losses in discrete quantum networks
authors: G. M. Nikolopoulos, A. Hoskovec, I. Jex
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062319 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2256
abstract: We study theoretically the transfer of quantum information along bends in two-dimensional discrete lattices. Our analysis shows that the fidelity of the transfer decreases considerably, as a result of interactions in the neighbourhood of the bend. It is also demonstrated that such losses can be controlled efficiently by the inclusion of a defect. The present results are of relevance to various physical implementations of quantum networks, where geometric imperfections with finite spatial extent may arise as a result of bending, residual stress, etc.

id: 1206.2265
title: Optimal measurement precision of a nonlinear interferometer
authors: Juha Javanainen, Han Chen
comments: very close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063605 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2265
abstract: We study the best attainable measurement precision when a double-well trap with bosons inside acts as an interferometer to measure the energy difference of the atoms on the two sides of the trap. We introduce time independent perturbation theory as the main tool in both analytical arguments and numerical computations. Nonlinearity from atom-atom interactions will not indirectly allow the interferometer to beat the Heisenberg limit, but in many regimes of the operation the Heisenberg limit scaling of measurement precision is preserved in spite of added tunneling of the atoms and atom-atom interactions, often even with the optimal prefactor.

id: 1206.2289
title: Loophole-free Bell test based on local precertification of photon's presence
authors: Adan Cabello, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: REVTeX4, 7 Pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. X 2 (2012) 021010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2289
abstract: A loophole-free violation of Bell inequalities is of fundamental importance for demonstrating quantum nonlocality and long-distance device-independent secure communication. However, transmission losses represent a fundamental limitation for photonic loophole-free Bell tests. A local precertification of the presence of the photons immediately before the local measurements may solve this problem. We show that local precertification is feasible by integrating three current technologies: (i) enhanced single-photon down-conversion to locally create a flag photon, (ii) nanowire-based superconducting single-photon detectors for a fast flag detection, and (iii) superconducting transition-edge sensors to close the detection loophole. We carry out a precise space-time analysis of the proposed scheme, showing its viability and feasibility.

id: 1206.2290
title: Detection efficiency for loophole-free Bell tests with entangled states affected by colored noise
authors: Gustavo Ca?as, Johanna F. Barra, Esteban S. G¨®mez, Gustavo Lima, Fabio Sciarrino, Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87 (2013) 012113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2290
abstract: Loophole-free Bell tests for quantum nonlocality and long-distance secure communication require photodetection efficiencies beyond a threshold eta_{crit} that depends on the Bell inequality and the noise affecting the entangled state received by the distant parties. Most calculations of eta_{crit} assume that the noise is random and can be modeled as white noise. However, most sources suffer from colored noise. Indeed, since entangled states are usually created as a superposition of two possible deexcitation paths, a partial distinguishability between the two processes leads to the appearance of colored noise in the generated state. Recently, there was a proposal for a loophole-free Bell test [A. Cabello and F. Sciarrino, Phys. Rev. X 2, 021010 (2012)], where a specific colored noise appears as a consequence of the precertification of the photon's presence through single-photon spontaneous parametric down-conversion. Here we obtain eta_{crit}, the optimal quantum states, and the local settings for a loophole-free Bell test as a function of the amount of colored noise. We consider three bipartite Bell inequalities with n dichotomic settings: Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (n=2), I_{3322} (n=3), and A_5 (n=4), both for the case of symmetric efficiencies, corresponding to photon-photon Bell tests, and for the totally asymmetric case, corresponding to atom-photon Bell tests. Remarkably, in all these cases, eta_{crit} is robust against the colored noise. The present analysis can find application in any test of Bell inequalities in which the dominant noise is of the colored type.

id: 1206.2422
title: Strongly enhanced light-matter interaction in a hybrid photonic-plasmonic resonator
authors: Yun-Feng Xiao, Yong-Chun Liu, Bei-Bei Li, You-Ling Chen, Yan Li, Qihuang Gong
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 031805(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2422
abstract: We propose a hybrid photonic-plasmonic resonant structure which consists of a metal nanoparticle (MNP) and a whispering gallery mode (WGM) microcavity. It is found that the hybrid mode enables a strong interaction between the light and matter, and the single-atom cooperativity is enhanced by more than two orders of magnitude compared to that in a bare WGM microcavity. This remarkable improvement originates from two aspects: (1) the MNP offers a highly enhanced local field in the vicinity of an emitter, and (2), surprisingly, the high-\textit{Q} property of WGMs can be maintained in the presence of the MNP. Thus the present system has great advantages over a single microcavity or a single MNP, and holds great potential in quantum optics, nonlinear optics and highly sensitive biosening.

id: 1206.2426
title: Cavity QED treatment of scattering-induced efficient free-space excitation and collection in high-Q whispering-gallery microcavities
authors: Yong-Chun Liu, Yun-Feng Xiao, Xue-Feng Jiang, Bei-Bei Li, Yan Li, Qihuang Gong
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013843 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2426
abstract: Whispering-gallery microcavity laser possesses ultralow threshold, whereas convenient free-space optical excitation and collection suffer from low efficiencies due to its rotational symmetry. Here we analytically study a three-dimensional microsphere coupled to a nano-sized scatterer in the framework of quantum optics. It is found that the scatterer is capable of coupling light in and out of the whispering-gallery modes (WGMs) without seriously degrading their high-Q properties, while the microsphere itself plays the role of a lens to focus the input beam on the scatterer and vice versa. Our analytical results show that (1) the high-Q WGMs can be excited in free space, and (2) over 50% of the microcavity laser emission can be collected within less than ${1}^{\circ}$. This coupling system holds great potential for low threshold microlasers free of external couplers.

id: 1206.2432
title: Three Essential Reasons Why Nature Chose Quantum Mechanics
authors: Yoshimasa Kurihara
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure This report is replace by new report
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2432
abstract: We discuss the reason why quantum mechanics is chosen as the most basic law of nature. Probability amplitude, which becomes a probability density after square it, is considered as one of the most essential ingredient of quantum mechanics. Code transfer experiments based on the probability amplitude is proved to be i) error of code transfer is minimum, ii) that error is independent of coding parameters and iii) non-trivial and non-local correlation is possible.

id: 1206.2506
title: Complete measurements of quantum observables
authors: Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: Based on talk given in CEQIP 2012 conference
journal: Found. Phys. 44, 71-90 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2506
abstract: We define a complete measurement of a quantum observable (POVM) as a measurement of the maximally refined version of the POVM. Complete measurements give information from the multiplicities of the measurement outcomes and can be viewed as state preparation procedures. We show that any POVM can be measured completely by using sequential measurements or maximally refinable instruments. Moreover, the ancillary space of a complete measurement can be chosen to be minimal.

id: 1206.2516
title: Proposal for a near-field optomechanical system with enhanced linear and quadratic coupling
authors: Hao-Kun Li, Yong-Chun Liu, Xu Yi, Chang-Ling Zou, Xue-Xin Ren, Yun-Feng Xiao
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053832 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2516
abstract: We propose a realistic system with separated optical and mechanical degrees of freedom, in which a high-mechanical-quality silicon nitride membrane is placed upon a high-optical-quality whispering gallery microcavity. The strongly enhanced linear optomechanical coupling, together with simultaneously low optical and mechanical losses in the present system, results in a remarkable single-photon cooperativity exceeding 300. This unprecedented cooperativity in the optomechanical system enables optical nonlinearity at low light intensities and holds great potential in generating, storing, and implementing quantum states. Moreover, the device gives rise to significantly stronger quadratic optomechanical coupling than achieved to date, which is desirable for measuring phonon shot noise with a high signal-to-noise ratio.

id: 1206.2527
title: A graphical description of optical parametric generation of squeezed states of light
authors: Joeran Bauchrowitz, Tobias Westphal, Roman Schnabel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2527
abstract: The standard process for the production of strongly squeezed states of light is optical parametric amplification (OPA) below threshold in dielectric media such as LiNbO3 or periodically poled KTP. Here, we present a graphical description of squeezed light generation via OPA. It visualizes the interaction between the nonlinear dielectric polarization of the medium and the electromagnetic quantum field. We explicitly focus on the transfer from the field's ground state to a squeezed vacuum state and from a coherent state to a bright squeezed state by the medium's secondorder nonlinearity, respectively. Our pictures visualize the phase dependent amplification and deamplification of quantum uncertainties and give the phase relations between all propagating electro-magnetic fields as well as the internally induced dielectric polarizations. The graphical description can also be used to describe the generation of nonclassical states of light via higherorder effects of the non-linear dielectric polarization such as four-wave mixing and the optical Kerr effect.

id: 1206.2536
title: Entropic trade-off relations for quantum operations
authors: Wojciech Roga, Zbigniew Pucha?a, ?ukasz Rudnicki, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032308 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2536
abstract: Spectral properties of an arbitrary matrix can be characterized by the entropy of its rescaled singular values. Any quantum operation can be described by the associated dynamical matrix or by the corresponding superoperator. The entropy of the dynamical matrix describes the degree of decoherence introduced by the map, while the entropy of the superoperator characterizes the a priori knowledge of the receiver of the outcome of a quantum channel Phi. We prove that for any map acting on a N--dimensional quantum system the sum of both entropies is not smaller than ln N. For any bistochastic map this lower bound reads 2 ln N. We investigate also the corresponding R\'enyi entropies, providing an upper bound for their sum and analyze entanglement of the bi-partite quantum state associated with the channel.

id: 1206.2567
title: A correlated-polaron electronic propagator: open electronic dynamics beyond the Born-Oppenheimer approximation
authors: John A. Parkhill, Thomas Markovich, David G. Tempel, Alan Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 25 pages 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2567
abstract: In this work we develop a theory of correlated many-electron dynamics dressed by the presence of a finite-temperature harmonic bath. The theory is based on the ab-initio Hamiltonian, and thus well-defined apart from any phenomenological choice of collective basis states or electronic coupling model. The equation-of-motion includes some bath effects non-perturbatively, and can be used to simulate line- shapes beyond the Markovian approximation and open electronic dynamics which are subjects of renewed recent interest. Energy conversion and transport depend critically on the ratio of electron-electron coupling to bath-electron coupling, which is a fitted parameter if a phenomenological basis of many-electron states is used to develop an electronic equation of motion. Since the present work doesn't appeal to any such basis, it avoids this ambiguity. The new theory produces a level of detail beyond the adiabatic Born-Oppenheimer states, but with cost scaling like the Born-Oppenheimer approach. While developing this model we have also applied the time-convolutionless perturbation theory to correlated molecular excitations for the first time. Resonant response properties are given by the formalism without phenomenological parameters. Example propagations with a developmental code are given demonstrating the treatment of electron-correlation in absorption spectra, vibronic structure, and decay in an open system.

id: 1206.2575
title: On the standard quantum Brownian equation and an associated class of non-autonomous master equations
authors: Allan Tameshtit
comments: In the second version, a constraint for k_1+k_2 is added in Appendix 2 and a corresponding change to Eq.(46) is made
journal: Physica A 392, 427 (2013); Physica A 392, 3113 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2575
abstract: It is shown that the standard quantum Brownian equation (QBE) can violate positivity not only past the thermal correlation time, but at arbitrarily long times at high system frequencies. In an effort to improve the standard QBE, exact operator solutions are provided for a class of non-autonomous master equations. These exact solutions are used to derive sufficient positivity conditions for the coefficients of the master equations.

id: 1206.2618
title: Full characterisation of polarisation states of light via direct measurement
authors: Jeff Z. Salvail, Megan Agnew, Allan S. Johnson, Eliot Bolduc, Jonathan Leach, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures; final version
journal: Nature Photonics, 7, 316 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2618
abstract: Ascertaining the physical state of a system is vital in order to understand and predict its behaviour. Tomography is a standard approach used to determine the form of an unknown state. Here we show that an alternative approach, based on sequential weak and strong measurements, can be used to determine the density matrix in a simple, fast, and general style. We directly measure the probability amplitudes of a variety of pure polarisation states of light. We then generalise this experiment to directly measure the Dirac distribution and consequently determine the density matrix. Our work is the first to demonstrate the direct measurement of the full description of the state of a two-dimensional system, and it has applications to measurements in foundational quantum mechanics, quantum information, and physical chemistry.

id: 1206.2649
title: Incompatible local hidden-variable models of quantum correlations
authors: Wieslaw Laskowski, Marcin Markiewicz, Tomasz Paterek, Marcin Wiesniak
comments: 3 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032105 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2649
abstract: We show a quantum state with explicit local hidden-variable models for correlations between any fixed number of subsystems which cannot be extended to a model simultaneously describing correlations between different numbers of subsystems.

id: 1206.2670
title: Assisted finite-rate adiabatic passage across a quantum critical point: Exact solution for the quantum Ising model
authors: Adolfo del Campo, Marek M. Rams, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 2 figures, 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 115703 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2670
abstract: The dynamics of a quantum phase transition is inextricably woven with the formation of excitations, as a result of the critical slowing down in the neighborhood of the critical point. We design a transitionless quantum driving through a quantum critical point that allows one to access the ground state of the broken-symmetry phase by a finite-rate quench of the control parameter. The method is illustrated in the one-dimensional quantum Ising model in a transverse field. Driving through the critical point is assisted by an auxiliary Hamiltonian, for which the interplay between the range of the interaction and the modes where excitations are suppressed is elucidated.

id: 1206.2675
title: Quantum splines
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Darryl D. Holm, David M. Meier
comments: Published version: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 100501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2675
abstract: A quantum spline is a smooth curve parameterised by time in the space of unitary transformations, whose associated orbit on the space of pure states traverses a designated set of quantum states at designated times, such that the trace norm of the time rate of change of the associated Hamiltonian is minimised. The solution to the quantum spline problem is obtained, and is applied in an example that illustrates quantum control of coherent states. An efficient numerical scheme for computing quantum splines is discussed and implemented in the examples.

id: 1206.2688
title: Coherent controllers for optical-feedback cooling of quantum oscillators
authors: Ryan Hamerly, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 15 pages, 20 figures. Submitted to Physical Review X. Follow-up paper to arXiv:1206.0829
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2688
abstract: We study the cooling performance of optical-feedback controllers for open optical and mechanical resonators in the Linear Quadratic Gaussian setting of stochastic control theory. We utilize analysis and numerical optimization of closed-loop models based on quantum stochastic differential equations to show that coherent control schemes, where we embed the resonator in an interferometer to achieve all-optical feedback, can outperform optimal measurement-based feedback control schemes in the quantum regime of low steady-state excitation number. These performance gains are attributed to the coherent controller's ability to simultaneously process both quadratures of an optical probe field without measurement or loss of fidelity, and may guide the design of coherent feedback schemes for more general problems of robust nonlinear and robust control.

id: 1206.2701
title: Employing long fibre-optical Mach- Zehnder interferometers for quantum cryptography with orthogonal states
authors: G. B. Xavier, G. P. Temporao, J. P. von der Weid
comments: Accepted for publication in Electronics Letters, 2 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2701
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate that a long distance actively stabilized Mach-Zehnder fibre optical interferometer can be used to reliably implement the GV95 quantum cryptography protocol employing orthogonal states. A proof-of-principle experiment using an interferometer composed of 1 km of spooled optical fibres connecting Alice and Bob is performed. The active stabilisation against phase drifts is done with a classical channel wavelength-multiplexed with the quantum channel and a high stable visibility implying a QBER of 2.2 % is shown.

id: 1206.2718
title: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger paradoxes from qudit graph states
authors: Weidong Tang, Sixia Yu, C.H. Oh
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 100403(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2718
abstract: One fascinating way of revealing the quantum nonlocality is the all-versus-nothing test due to Greenberger, Horne, and Zeilinger (GHZ) known as GHZ paradox. So far genuine multipartite and multilevel GHZ paradoxes are known to exist only in systems containing an odd number of particles. Here we shall construct GHZ paradoxes for an arbitrary number (greater than 3) of particles with the help of qudit graph states on a special kind of graphs, called as GHZ graphs. Based on the GHZ paradox arising from a GHZ graph, we derive a Bell inequality with two $d$-outcome observables for each observer, whose maximal violation attained by the corresponding graph state, and a Kochen-Specker inequality testing the quantum contextuality in a state-independent fashion.

id: 1206.2725
title: The preparation problem in nonlinear extensions of quantum theory
authors: Eric G. Cavalcanti, Nicolas C. Menicucci, Jacques L. Pienaar
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2725
abstract: Nonlinear modifications to the laws of quantum mechanics have been proposed as a possible way to consistently describe information processing in the presence of closed timelike curves. These have recently generated controversy due to possible exotic information-theoretic effects, including breaking quantum cryptography and radically speeding up both classical and quantum computers. The physical interpretation of such theories, however, is still unclear. We consider a large class of operationally-defined theories that contain "nonlinear boxes" and show that operational verifiability without superluminal signaling implies a split in the equivalence classes of preparation procedures. We conclude that any theory satisfying the above requirements is (a) inconsistent unless it contains distinct representations for the two different kinds of preparations and (b) incomplete unless it also contains a rule for uniquely distinguishing them at the operational level. We refer to this as the preparation problem for nonlinear theories. In addition to its foundational implications, this work shows that, in the presence of nonlinear quantum evolution, the security of quantum cryptography and the existence of other exotic effects remain open questions.

id: 1206.2736
title: Generating arbitrary photon-number entangled states for continuous-variable quantum informatics
authors: Su-Yong Lee, Jiyong Park, Hai-Woong Lee, Hyunchul Nha
comments: published version, 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Opt. Express 20, 14221-14233 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2736
abstract: We propose two experimental schemes that can produce an arbitrary photon-number entangled state (PNES) in a finite dimension. This class of entangled states naturally includes non-Gaussian continuous-variable (CV) states that may provide some practical advantages over the Gaussian counterparts (two-mode squeezed states). We particularly compare the entanglement characteristics of the Gaussian and the non-Gaussian states in view of the degree of entanglement and the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlation, and further discuss their applications to the CV teleportation and the nonlocality test. The experimental imperfection due to the on-off photodetectors with nonideal efficiency is also considered in our analysis to show the feasibility of our schemes within existing technologies.

id: 1206.2769
title: Dynamics of Atom-Atom Correlations in the Fermi problem
authors: Massimo Borrelli, Carlos Sab¨ªn, Gerardo Adesso, Francesco Plastina, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 103010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2769
abstract: We present a detailed perturbative study of the dynamics of several types of atom-atom correlations in the famous Fermi problem. This is an archetypal model to study micro-causality in the quantum domain where two atoms, the first initially excited and the second prepared in its ground state, interact with the vacuum electromagnetic field. The excitation can be transferred to the second atom via a flying photon and various kinds of quantum correlations between the two are generated during this process. Among these, prominent examples are given by entanglement, quantum discord and nonlocal correlations. It is the aim of this paper to analyze the role of the light cone in the emergence of such correlations.

id: 1206.2821
title: Broadcasting Quantum Fisher Information
authors: Xiao-Ming Lu, Zhe Sun, Xiaoguang Wang, Shunlong Luo, C. H. Oh
comments: 5 pages. Improved version. Any comments is welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 050302(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2821
abstract: It is well known that classical information can be cloned, but non-orthogonal quantum states cannot be cloned, and non-commuting quantum states cannot be broadcast. We conceive a scenario in which the object we want to broadcast is the statistical distinguishability, as quantified by quantum Fisher information, about a signal parameter encoded in quantum states. We show that quantum Fisher information cannot be cloned, whilst it might be broadcast even when the input states are non-commuting. This situation interpolates between cloning of classical information and no-broadcasting of quantum information, and indicates a hybrid way of information broadcasting which is of particular significance from both practical and theoretical perspectives.

id: 1206.2852
title: Noiseless loss suppression in quantum optical communication
authors: Michal Micuda, Ivo Straka, Martina Mikova, Miloslav Dusek, Nicolas J. Cerf, Jaromir Fiurasek, Miroslav Jezek
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, REVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 180503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2852
abstract: We propose a protocol for conditional suppression of losses in direct quantum state transmission over a lossy quantum channel. The method works by noiselessly attenuating the input state prior to transmission through a lossy channel followed by noiseless amplification of the output state. The procedure does not add any noise hence it keeps quantum coherence. We experimentally demonstrate it in the subspace spanned by vacuum and single-photon states, and consider its general applicability.

id: 1206.2884
title: Distinguishing multi-partite states by local measurements
authors: C¨¦cilia Lancien, Andreas Winter
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures, 1 unreferenced reference
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 323, 555-573 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2884
abstract: We analyze the distinguishability norm on the states of a multi-partite system, defined by local measurements. Concretely, we show that the norm associated to a tensor product of sufficiently symmetric measurements is essentially equivalent to a multi-partite generalisation of the non-commutative 2-norm (aka Hilbert-Schmidt norm): in comparing the two, the constants of domination depend only on the number of parties but not on the Hilbert spaces dimensions. We discuss implications of this result on the corresponding norms for the class of all measurements implementable by local operations and classical communication (LOCC), and in particular on the leading order optimality of multi-party data hiding schemes.

id: 1206.2897
title: Conjugates, Filters and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Alexander Wilce
comments: 10 pp., revtex4. Slightly stronger results, and a slightly revised title (better reflecting the paper's content)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2897
abstract: The Jordan structure of finite-dimensional quantum theory is derived, in a conspicuously easy way, from a few simple postulates concerning abstract probabilistic models (each defined by a set of basic measurements and a convex set of states). A key assumption is that each system $A$ can be paired with an isomorphic conjugate system, $\bar{A}$, by means of a non-signaling bipartite state $\eta_A$ perfectly and uniformly correlating each basic measurement on $A$ with its counterpart on $\bar{A}$. In the case of a quantum-mechanical system associated with a complex Hilbert space ${\mathbf H}$, the conjugate system is that associated with the conjugate Hilbert space $\bar{\mathbf H}$, and $\eta_A$ corresponds to the standard maximally entangled EPR state on ${\mathbf H} \otimes \bar{\mathbf H}$.

id: 1206.2916
title: Epistemic vs Ontic Classification of quantum entangled states?
authors: Michele Caponigro, Enrico Giannetto
comments: Corrected typos,4 pages, 3 figure. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1002.2893, arXiv:quant-ph/0701124, arXiv:quant-ph/0608013 by other authors. See also the related works arXiv:1009.1567 arXiv:1002.2893, arXiv:quant-ph/0608013, arXiv:quant-ph/0701124
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2916
abstract: In this brief paper, starting from recent works, we analyze from conceptual point of view this basic question: can the nature of quantum entangled states be interpreted ontologically or epistemologically? According to some works, the degrees of freedom (and the tool of quantum partitions) of quantum systems permit us to establish a possible classification between factorizable and entangled states. We suggest, that the "choice" of degree of freedom (or quantum partitions), even if mathematically justified introduces an epistemic element, not only in the systems but also in their classification. We retain, instead, that there are not two classes of quantum states, entangled and factorizable, but only a single class of states: the entangled states. In fact, the factorizable states become entangled for a different choice of their degrees of freedom (i.e. they are entangled with respect to other observables). In the same way, there are no partitions of quantum systems which have an ontologically superior status with respect to any other. For all these reasons, both mathematical tools utilize(i.e quantum partitions or degrees of freedom) are responsible for creating an improper classification of quantum systems. Finally, we argue that we cannot speak about a classification of quantum systems: all quantum states exhibit a uniquely objective nature, they are all entangled states.

id: 1206.2917
title: Stochastic Theory of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Maurice J. M. L. O. Godart
comments: Abstract: corrected typos. Modified content: new paragraph on covariance and no more appendices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2917
abstract: The stochastic theory of non-relativistic quantum mechanics presented here relies heavily upon the theory of stochastic processes, with its definitions, theorems and specific vocabulary as well. Its main hypothesis states indeed that the classical trajectories of the particles are identical to the sample functions of a diffusion Markov process, whose conditional probability density is proposed as a substitute for the wave function. The Schroedinger equation and the so-called Nelson equations are used to determine the diffusion tensor and the drift vectors characteristic of such a process. It is then possible to write down the forward and backward Kolmogorov equations that are used to determine the conditional probability density, as well as the Fokker-Planck equation that is used to determine the normal probability density. This method is applied to several simple cases and the results obtained are compared with those of the orthodox theory. Among the most important differences let us mention that any system evolving freely from any original state returns spontaneously to its ground state, that the definitions of the particles velocities and momenta are impossible because the sample functions of a diffusion Markov process nowhere possess a derivative with respect to time and that the so-called collapse of the wave function is a mere mirage explained by the updating choice between new and older initial conditions in the resolution of partial differential equations. We finally attempt to extend the proposed theory to the domain of the relativistic quantum mechanics. It is promising but is clearly unfinished because it has not been possible up to now to solve the Nelson and Kolmogorov equations, except in the very simple case of a free particle.

id: 1206.2918
title: Decoherence-free measurements in steering tasks
authors: Artur Szczepanski
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2918
abstract: Quantum entanglement has been used as an experimental tool to control the state of a quantum subsystem by measurements in its twin subsystem by Kwiat and Chiao 21 year ago, already, with entangled subsystems linked by an auxiliary classical coincidence channel. We propose to extend the idea one significant step further consisting essentially in eliminating the coincidence channel in the reminded experiment. The current availability of bright biphoton sources makes such experiments feasible.

id: 1206.2933
title: Experimental protection of quantum gates against decoherence and control errors
authors: Alexandre M. Souza, Gonzalo A. ?lvarez, Dieter Suter
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 86, 050301(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2933
abstract: One of the biggest challenges for implementing quantum devices is the requirement to perform accurate quantum gates. The destructive effects of interactions with the environment present some of the most difficult obstacles that must be overcome for precise quantum control. In this work we implement a proof of principle experiment of quantum gates protected against a fluctuating environment using dynamical decoupling techniques. We show that decoherence can be reduced during the application of quantum gates. High fidelity quantum gates can be achieved even if the gate time exceeds the decoherence time by one order of magnitude.

id: 1206.2947
title: Exponential Decay of Correlations Implies Area Law
authors: Fernando G. S. L. Brandao, Michal Horodecki
comments: 35 pages, 6 figures; v2 minor corrections; v3 published version
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 333, 761 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2947
abstract: We prove that a finite correlation length, i.e. exponential decay of correlations, implies an area law for the entanglement entropy of quantum states defined on a line. The entropy bound is exponential in the correlation length of the state, thus reproducing as a particular case Hastings proof of an area law for groundstates of 1D gapped Hamiltonians. As a consequence, we show that 1D quantum states with exponential decay of correlations have an efficient classical approximate description as a matrix product state of polynomial bond dimension, thus giving an equivalence between injective matrix product states and states with a finite correlation length. The result can be seen as a rigorous justification, in one dimension, of the intuition that states with exponential decay of correlations, usually associated with non-critical phases of matter, are simple to describe. It also has implications for quantum computing: It shows that unless a pure state quantum computation involves states with long-range correlations, decaying at most algebraically with the distance, it can be efficiently simulated classically. The proof relies on several previous tools from quantum information theory - including entanglement distillation protocols achieving the hashing bound, properties of single-shot smooth entropies, and the quantum substate theorem - and also on some newly developed ones. In particular we derive a new bound on correlations established by local random measurements, and we give a generalization to the max-entropy of a result of Hastings concerning the saturation of mutual information in multiparticle systems. The proof can also be interpreted as providing a limitation on the phenomenon of data hiding in quantum states.

id: 1206.2961
title: Epistemic view of quantum states and communication complexity of quantum channels
authors: Alberto Montina
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 110501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2961
abstract: The communication complexity of a quantum channel is the minimal amount of classical communication required for classically simulating a process of state preparation, transmission through the channel and subsequent measurement. It establishes a limit on the power of quantum communication in terms of classical resources. We show that classical simulations employing a finite amount of communication can be derived from a special class of hidden variable theories where quantum states represent statistical knowledge about the classical state and not an element of reality. This special class has attracted strong interest very recently. The communication cost of each derived simulation is given by the mutual information between the quantum state and the classical state of the parent hidden variable theory. Finally, we find that the communication complexity for single qubits is smaller than 1.28 bits. The previous known upper bound was 1.85 bits.

id: 1206.2971
title: Measurements, quantum discord and parity in spin 1 systems
authors: R. Rossignoli, J. M. Matera, N. Canosa
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, References added
journal: Physical Review A 86, 022104 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2971
abstract: We consider the evaluation of the quantum discord and other related measures of quantum correlations in a system formed by a spin 1 and a complementary spin system. A characterization of general projective measurements in such system in terms of spin averages is thereby introduced, which allows to easily visualize their deviation from standard spin measurements. It is shown that the measurement optimizing these measures corresponds in general to a non-spin measurement. The important case of states that commute with the total $S_z$ spin parity is discussed in detail, and the general stationary measurements for such states (parity preserving measurements) are identified. Numerical and analytical results for the quantum discord, the geometric discord and the one way information deficit in the relevant case of a mixture of two aligned spin 1 states are also presented.

id: 1206.2992
title: On the connection between Complementarity and Uncertainty Principles in the Mach-Zehnder interferometric setting
authors: G. M. Bosyk, M. Portesi, F. Holik, A. Plastino
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2992
abstract: We revisit, in the framework of Mach-Zehnder interferometry, the connection between the complementarity and uncertainty principles of quantum mechanics. Specifically, we show that, for a pair of suitably chosen observables, the trade-off relation between the complementary path information and fringe visibility is equivalent to the uncertainty relation given by Schr\"odinger and Robertson, and to the one provided by Landau and Pollak as well. We also employ entropic uncertainty relations (based on R\'enyi entropic measures) and study their meaning for different values of the entropic parameter. We show that these different values define regimes which yield qualitatively different information concerning the system, in agreement with findings of [A. Luis, Phys. Rev. A 84, 034101 (2011)]. We find that there exists a regime for which the entropic uncertinty relations can be used as criteria to pinpoint non trivial states of minimum uncertainty.

id: 1206.2995
title: Quantum discord and related measures of quantum correlations in XY chains
authors: N. Canosa, L. Ciliberti, R. Rossignoli
comments: accepted in Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems" edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1345033 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2995
abstract: We examine the quantum correlations of spin pairs in the ground state of finite XY chains in a transverse field, by evaluating the quantum discord as well as other related entropic measures of quantum correlations. A brief review of the latter, based on generalized entropic forms, is also included. It is shown that parity effects are of crucial importance for describing the behavior of these measures below the critical field. It is also shown that these measures reach full range in the immediate vicinity of the factorizing field, where they become independent of separation and coupling range. Analytical and numerical results for the quantum discord, the geometric discord and other measures in spin chains with nearest neighbor coupling and in fully connected spin arrays are also provided.

id: 1206.2999
title: Non-interacting multi-particle quantum random walks applied to the graph isomorphism problem for strongly regular graphs
authors: Kenneth Rudinger, John King Gamble, Mark Wellons, Eric Bach, Mark Friesen, Robert Joynt, S. N. Coppersmith
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables; adjusted references in Section I
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022334 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2999
abstract: We investigate the quantum dynamics of particles on graphs ("quantum random walks"), with the aim of developing quantum algorithms for determining if two graphs are isomorphic (related to each other by a relabeling of vertices). We focus on quantum random walks of multiple non-interacting particles on strongly regular graphs (SRGs), a class of graphs with high symmetry that is known to have pairs of graphs that are hard to distinguish. Previous work has already demonstrated analytically that two-particle non-interacting quantum walks cannot distinguish non-isomorphic SRGs of the same family. Here, we demonstrate numerically that three-particle non-interacting quantum walks have significant, but not universal, distinguishing power for pairs of SRGs, proving a fundamental difference between the distinguishing power of two-particle and three-particle non-interacting walks. We analytically show why this distinguishing power is possible, whereas it is forbidden for two-particle non-interacting walks. Based on sampling of SRGs with up to 64 vertices, we find no difference in the distinguishing power of bosonic and fermionic walks. In addition, we find that the four-fermion non-interacting walk has greater distinguishing power than the three-particle walks on SRGs, showing that increasing particle number increases distinguishing power. However, we also analytically show that no non-interacting walk with a fixed number of particles can distinguish all SRGs, thus demonstrating a potential fundamental difference between the distinguishing power of interacting and noninteracting walks.

id: 1206.3012
title: Limits on the Observable Dynamics of Mixed States
authors: Cael Hasse
comments: 7 pages, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3012
abstract: It is shown that the observability of a large class of operations on mixed states is fundamentally limited. We consider trace preserving, unital operations. This class includes unitary and perfect premeasurement operations. An upper bound on the trace distance between an untransformed state and a state transformed by one of these operations is derived. The bound is dependent only on the purity of the state. In the case of maximal mixedness, the bound implies all operations of this class are unobservable.

id: 1206.3025
title: Information recycling beam-splitters for atom-interferometry with enhanced sensitivity
authors: S. A. Haine
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 053002 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3025
abstract: We propose a scheme to significantly enhance the sensitivity of atom-interferometry performed with Bose-Einstein condensates. When a two-photon Raman transition is used to split the condensate into two modes, some information about the number of atoms in one of the modes is transferred to one of the optical modes. We introduce a simple model to describe this process, and find that by processing this information in an appropriate way, the sensitivity of atom interferometry can be enhanced by more than a factor of 10 for realistic parameters.

id: 1206.3056
title: Notes on entropic characteristics of quantum channels
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 10 pages, no figures. The statement of Proposition 1 is explicitly illustrated with the depolarizing channel. The bibliography is extended and updated. More explanations. To be published in Cent. Eur. J. Phys
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. 11, 69-77 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3056
abstract: One of most important issues in quantum information theory concerns transmission of information through noisy quantum channels. We discuss few channel characteristics expressed by means of generalized entropies. Such characteristics can often be dealt in line with more usual treatment based on the von Neumann entropies. For any channel, we show that the $q$-average output entropy of degree $q\geq1$ is bounded from above by the $q$-entropy of the input density matrix. Concavity properties of the $(q,s)$-entropy exchange are considered. Fano type quantum bounds on the $(q,s)$-entropy exchange are derived. We also give upper bounds on the map $(q,s)$-entropies in terms of the output entropy, corresponding to the completely mixed input.

id: 1206.3085
title: Correlated two-photon scattering in cavity optomechanics
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, C. K. Law
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043809 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3085
abstract: We present an exact analytical solution of the two-photon scattering in a cavity optomechanical system. This is achieved by solving the quantum dynamics of the total system, including the optomechanical cavity and the cavity-field environment, with the Laplace transform method. The long-time solution reveals detailed physical processes involved as well as the corresponding resonant photon frequencies. We characterize the photon correlation induced in the scattering process by calculating the two-photon joint spectrum of the long-time state. Clear evidence for photon frequency anti-correlation can be observed in the joint spectrum. In addition, we calculate the equal-time second-order correlation function of the cavity photons. The results show that the radiation pressure coupling can induce photon blockade effect, which is strongly modulated by the phonon sideband resonance. In particular, we obtain an explicit expression of optomechanical coupling strength determining these sideband modulation peaks based on the two-photon resonance condition.

id: 1206.3088
title: Entangled symmetric states of N qubits with all positive partial transpositions
authors: R. Augusiak, J. Tura, J. Samsonowicz, M. Lewenstein
comments: 16 pages, typos corrected, some other improvements, extension of arXiv:1203.3711
journal: Physical Review A 86, 042316 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3088
abstract: From both theoretical and experimental points of view symmetric states constitute an important class of multipartite states. Still, entanglement properties of these states, in particular those with positive partial transposition (PPT), lack a systematic study. Aiming at filling in this gap, we have recently affirmatively answered the open question of existence of four-qubit entangled symmetric states with positive partial transposition and thoroughly characterized entanglement properties of such states [J. Tura et al., Phys. Rev. A 85, 060302(R) (2012)] With the present contribution we continue on characterizing PPT entangled symmetric states. On the one hand, we present all the results of our previous work in a detailed way. On the other hand, we generalize them to systems consisting of arbitrary number of qubits. In particular, we provide criteria for separability of such states formulated in terms of their ranks. Interestingly, for most of the cases, the symmetric states are either separable or typically separable. Then, edge states in these systems are studied, showing in particular that to characterize generic PPT entangled states with four and five qubits, it is enough to study only those that assume few (respectively, two and three) specific configurations of ranks. Finally, we numerically search for extremal PPT entangled states in such systems consisting of up to 23 qubits. One can clearly notice regularity behind the ranks of such extremal states, and, in particular, for systems composed of odd number of qubits we find a single configuration of ranks for which there are extremal states.

id: 1206.3102
title: A time-dependent variational principle for dissipative dynamics
authors: Christina V. Kraus, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062115 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3102
abstract: We extend the time-dependent variational principle to the setting of dissipative dynamics. This provides a locally optimal (in time) approximation to the dynamics of any Lindblad equation within a given variational manifold of mixed states. In contrast to the pure-state setting there is no canonical information geometry for mixed states and this leads to a family of possible trajectories --- one for each information metric. We focus on the case of the operationally motivated family of monotone riemannian metrics and show further, that in the particular case where the variational manifold is given by the set of fermionic gaussian states all of these possible trajectories coincide. We illustrate our results in the case of the Hubbard model subject to spin decoherence.

id: 1206.3119
title: Local channels preserving maximal entanglement or Schmidt number
authors: Yu Guo, Zhaofang Bai, Shuanping Du
comments: 10 pages
journal: Int J Theor Phys (2013) 52:3820-3829
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3119
abstract: Maximal entanglement and Schmidt number play an important role in various quantum information tasks. In this paper, it is shown that a local channel preserves maximal entanglement state(MES) or preserves pure states with Schmidt number $r$($r$ is a fixed integer) if and only if it is a local unitary operation.

id: 1206.3178
title: Quantum Walks on Trees with Disorder: Decay, Diffusion, and Localization
authors: Steven R. Jackson, Teng Jian Khoo, Frederick W. Strauch
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3178
abstract: Quantum walks have been shown to have impressive transport properties compared to classical random walks. However, imperfections in the quantum walk algorithm can destroy any quantum mechanical speed-up due to Anderson localization. We numerically study the effect of static disorder on a quantum walk on the glued trees graph. For small disorder, we find that the dominant effect is a type of quantum decay, and not quantum localization. For intermediate disorder, there is a crossover to diffusive transport, while a localization transition is observed at large disorder, in agreement with Anderson localization on the Cayley tree.

id: 1206.3184
title: Bayesian feedback control of a two-atom spin-state in an atom-cavity system
authors: Stefan Brakhane, Wolfgang Alt, Tobias Kampschulte, Miguel Martinez-Dorantes, Ren¨¦ Reimann, Seokchan Yoon, Artur Widera, Dieter Meschede
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3184
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate real-time feedback control of the joint spin-state of two neutral Caesium atoms inside a high finesse optical cavity. The quantum states are discriminated by their different cavity transmission levels. A Bayesian update formalism is used to estimate state occupation probabilities as well as transition rates. We stabilize the balanced two-atom mixed state, which is deterministically inaccessible, via feedback control and find very good agreement with Monte-Carlo simulations. On average, the feedback loops achieves near optimal conditions by steering the system to the target state marginally exceeding the time to retrieve information about its state.

id: 1206.3212
title: All noncontextuality inequalities for the n-cycle scenario
authors: Mateus Ara¨²jo, Marco T¨²lio Quintino, Costantino Budroni, Marcelo Terra Cunha, Ad¨¢n Cabello
comments: 5+3 pages, 4 figures, 11 countries. v3: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022118 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3212
abstract: The problem of separating classical from quantum correlations is in general intractable and has been solved explicitly only in few cases. In particular, known methods cannot provide general solutions for an arbitrary number of settings. We provide the complete characterization of the classical correlations and the corresponding maximal quantum violations for the case of n >= 4 observables X_0, ...,X_{n-1}, where each consecutive pair {X_i,X_{i+1}}, sum modulo n, is jointly measurable. This generalizes both the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt and the Klyachko-Can-Binicioglu-Shumovsky scenarios, which are the simplest ones for, respectively, locality and noncontextuality. In addition, we provide explicit quantum states and settings with maximal quantum violation and minimal quantum dimension.

id: 1206.3213
title: Superradiant phase transitions with three-level systems
authors: Alexandre Baksic, Pierre Nataf, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87 (2013) 023813
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3213
abstract: We determine the phase diagram of $N$ identical three-level systems interacting with a single photonic mode in the thermodynamical limit ($N \to \infty$) by accounting for the so-called diamagnetic term and the inequalities imposed by the Thomas-Reich-Kuhn (TRK) oscillator strength sum rule. The key role of transitions between excited levels and the occurrence of first-order phase transitions is discussed. We show that, in contrast to two-level systems, in the three-level case the TRK inequalities do not always prevent a superradiant phase transition in presence of a diamagnetic term.

id: 1206.3223
title: A Depth-Optimal Canonical Form for Single-qubit Quantum Circuits
authors: Alex Bocharov, Krysta M. Svore
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 190501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3223
abstract: Given an arbitrary single-qubit operation, an important task is to efficiently decompose this operation into an (exact or approximate) sequence of fault-tolerant quantum operations. We derive a depth-optimal canonical form for single-qubit quantum circuits, and the corresponding rules for exactly reducing an arbitrary single-qubit circuit to this canonical form. We focus on the single-qubit universal H,T basis due to its role in fault-tolerant quantum computing, and show how our formalism might be extended to other universal bases. We then extend our canonical representation to the family of Solovay-Kitaev decomposition algorithms, in order to find an \epsilon-approximation to the single-qubit circuit in polylogarithmic time. For a given single-qubit operation, we find significantly lower-depth \epsilon-approximation circuits than previous state-of-the-art implementations. In addition, the implementation of our algorithm requires significantly fewer resources, in terms of computation memory, than previous approaches.

id: 1206.3310
title: Competing PT potentials and re-entrant PT symmetric phase for a particle in a box
authors: Yogesh N. Joglekar, Bijan Bagchi
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 45, 402001 (2012) Fast Track Communication
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3310
abstract: We investigate the effects of competition between two complex, $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric potentials on the $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric phase of a "particle in a box". These potentials, given by $V_Z(x)=iZ\mathrm{sign}(x)$ and $V_\xi(x)=i\xi[\delta(x-a)-\delta(x+a)]$, represent long-range and localized gain/loss regions respectively. We obtain the $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric phase in the $(Z,\xi)$ plane, and find that for locations $\pm a$ near the edge of the box, the $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric phase is strengthened by additional losses to the loss region. We also predict that a broken $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetry will be restored by increasing the strength $\xi$ of the localized potential. By comparing the results for this problem and its lattice counterpart, we show that a robust $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric phase in the continuum is consistent with the fragile phase on the lattice. Our results demonstrate that systems with multiple, $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric potentials show unique, unexpected properties.

id: 1206.3335
title: Controlling open quantum systems using fast transitions
authors: P. M. Poggi, F. C. Lombardo, D. A. Wisniacki
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022315 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3335
abstract: Unitary control and decoherence appear to be irreconcilable in quantum mechanics. When a quantum system interacts with an environment, control strategies usually fail due to decoherence. In this letter, we propose a time-optimal unitary control protocol suitable for quantum open systems. The method is based on succesive diabatic and sudden switch transitions in the avoided crossings of the energy spectra of closed systems. We show that the speed of this control protocol meets the fundamental bounds imposed by the quantum speed limit, thus making this scheme ideal for application where decoherence needs to be avoided. We show that our method can achieve complex control strategies with high accuracy in quantum open systems.

id: 1206.3348
title: Quantum Compiler Optimizations
authors: Jeffrey Booth Jr
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3348
abstract: A quantum computer consists of a set of quantum bits upon which operations called gates are applied to perform computations. In order to perform quantum algorithms, physicists would like to design arbitrary gates to apply to quantum bits. However, the physical limitations of the quantum computing device restrict the set of gates that physicists are able to apply. Thus, they must compose a sequence of gates from the permitted gate set, which approximates the gate they wish to apply - a process called quantum compiling. Austin Fowler proposes a method that finds optimal gate sequences in exponential time, but which is tractable for common problems. In this paper, I present several optimizations to this algorithm. While my optimizations do not improve its overall exponential behavior, they improve its empirical performance by one to two orders of magnitude.

id: 1206.3356
title: Dynamics of Non-classicality Measures in the Decohering Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Peter A. Rose, Andrew C. McClung, Tyler E. Keating, Adam T. C. Steege, Eric S. Egge, Arjendu K. Pattanayak
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures. This paper has been trimmed and revised in response to referee comments since its initial submission in June 2012. It is a significantly expanded version of the manuscript Decoherence of Fock States Leads to a Maximally Quantum State (arXiv:1007.4618v1 [quant-ph]), submitted 27 Jul 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3356
abstract: We show that eigenstates |n> of the harmonic oscillator coupled to a linear Markovian bath demonstrate a non-trivial behavior in the dynamics of measures of non-classicality. Specifically, as the system undergoes decoherence, a time-dependent peak in non-classicality as a function of n emerges. We find this effect studying the dynamics of several non-classicality measures previously presented in the literature which compare quantum states to the set of all classical states. In studying these measures we introduce a novel set of classical states for the purpose of calculations which improve upon the results obtainable using these measures. In addition, following in the footsteps of Kenfack and \'Zyczkowski, we show that the negative volume of the Wigner function agrees well with all the non-classicality measures while being otherwise calculationally significantly more tractable. Finally, we explore the dynamics of non-classicality of several other states.

id: 1206.3405
title: Characterizing Quantum Microwave Radiation and its Entanglement with Superconducting Qubits using Linear Detectors
authors: C. Eichler, D. Bozyigit, A. Wallraff
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032106 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3405
abstract: Recent progress in the development of superconducting circuits has enabled the realization of interesting sources of nonclassical radiation at microwave frequencies. Here, we discuss field quadrature detection schemes for the experimental characterization of itinerant microwave photon fields and their entanglement correlations with stationary qubits. In particular, we present joint state tomography methods of a radiation field mode and a two-level system. Including the case of finite quantum detection efficiency, we relate measured photon field statistics to generalized quasi-probability distributions and statistical moments for one-channel and two-channel detection. We also present maximum-likelihood methods to reconstruct density matrices from measured field quadrature histograms. Our theoretical investigations are supported by the presentation of experimental data, for which microwave quantum fields beyond the single-photon and Gaussian level have been prepared and reconstructed.

id: 1206.3459
title: Single-atom laser generates nonlinear coherent states
authors: S. Ya. Kilin, A. B. Mikhalychev
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063817 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3459
abstract: The stationary state of a single-atom (single-qubit) laser is shown to be a phase-averaged nonlinear coherent state - an eigenstate of a specific deformed annihilation operator. The solution found for the stationary state is unique and valid for all regimes of the single-qubit laser operation. We have found the parametrization of the deformed annihilation operator which provides superconvergence in finding the stationary state by iteration. It is also shown that, contrary to the case of the usual laser with constant Einstein coefficients describing transition probabilities, for the single-atom laser the interaction-induced transition probabilities effectively depend on the field intensity.

id: 1206.3477
title: Transferring entanglement to the steady-state of flying qubits
authors: Yanqiang Guo, Jie Li, Tiancai Zhang, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052315 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3477
abstract: The transfer of entanglement from optical fields to qubits provides a viable approach to entangling remote qubits in a quantum network. In cavity quantum electrodynamics, the scheme relies on the interaction between a photonic resource and two stationary intracavity atomic qubits. However, it might be hard in practice to trap two atoms simultaneously and synchronize their coupling to the cavities. To address this point, we propose and study entanglement transfer from cavities driven by an entangled external field to controlled flying qubits. We consider two exemplary non-Gaussian driving fields: NOON and entangled coherent states. We show that in the limit of long coherence time of the cavity fields, when the dynamics is approximately unitary, entanglement is transferred from the driving field to two atomic qubits that cross the cavities. On the other hand, a dissipation-dominated dynamics leads to very weakly quantum-correlated atomic systems, as witnessed by vanishing quantum discord.

id: 1206.3548
title: Quantum Key Distribution with Fibonacci Orbital Angular Momentum States
authors: David S. Simon, Nate Lawrence, Jacob Trevino, Luca Dal Negro, Alexander V. Sergienko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3548
abstract: Quantum cryptography and quantum key distribution (QKD) have been the most successful applications of quantum information processing, highlighting the unique capability of quantum mechanics, through the no-cloning theorem, to protect the security of shared encryption keys. Here we present a new and fundamentally different approach to high-capacity, high-efficiency QKD by exploiting interplay between cross-disciplinary ideas from quantum information and light scattering of aperiodic photonic media. The novelty of the proposed approach relies on a unique type of entangled-photon source and a new physical mechanism for efficiently sharing keys. The new source produces entangled photons with orbital angular momenta (OAM) randomly distributed among Fibonacci numbers. Combining entanglement with the mathematical properties of Fibonacci sequences leads to a new QKD protocol. This Fibonacci protocol is immune to photon-number-splitting attacks and allows secure generation of long keys from few photons. Unlike other protocols, reference frame alignment and active modulation of production and detection bases are unnecessary, since security does not require use of non-orthogonal polarization measurements.

id: 1206.3606
title: Optimally combining dynamical decoupling and quantum error correction
authors: G.A. Paz-Silva, D. A. Lidar
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1530 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3606
abstract: We show how dynamical decoupling (DD) and quantum error correction (QEC) can be optimally combined in the setting of fault tolerant quantum computing. To this end we identify the optimal generator set of DD sequences designed to protect quantum information encoded into stabilizer subspace or subsystem codes. This generator set, comprising the stabilizers and logical operators of the code, minimizes a natural cost function associated with the length of DD sequences. We prove that with the optimal generator set the restrictive local-bath assumption used in earlier work on hybrid DD-QEC schemes, can be significantly relaxed, thus bringing hybrid DD-QEC schemes, and their potentially considerable advantages, closer to realization.

id: 1206.3638
title: Coherent Feedback Control of Linear Quantum Optical Systems via Squeezing and Phase Shift
authors: Guofeng Zhang, Heung Wing Joseph Lee, Bo Huang, Hu Zhang
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures, to appear in SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3638
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to present a theoretic and numerical study of utilizing squeezing and phase shift in coherent feedback control of linear quantum optical systems. A quadrature representation with built-in phase shifters is proposed for such systems. Fundamental structural characterizations of linear quantum optical systems are derived in terms of the new quadrature representation. These results reveal considerable insights of issue of physical realizability of such quantum systems. The problem of coherent quantum LQG feedback control studied in [35,50] is re-investigated in depth. Firstly, the optimization methods in [35,50] are extended to a multi-step optimization algorithm which utilizes ideal squeezers. Secondly, a two-stage optimization approach is proposed on the basis of controller parametrization. Numerical studies show that closed-loop systems designed via the second approach may offer LQG control performance even better than that when the closed-loop systems are in the vacuum state. When ideal squeezers in a close-loop system are replaced by (more realistic) degenerate parametric amplifiers, a sufficient condition is derived for the asymptotic stability of the resultant new closed-loop system; the issue of performance convergence is also discussed in the LQG control setting.

id: 1206.3644
title: Efficient Quantum Ratchet
authors: Chuan-Feng Li, Rong-Chun Ge, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3644
abstract: Quantum resonance is one of the main characteristics of the quantum kicked rotor, which has been used to induce accelerated ratchet current of the particles with a generalized asymmetry potential. Here we show that by desynchronizing the kicked potentials of the flashing ratchet [Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 110603 (2005)], new quantum resonances are stimulated to conduct directed currents more efficiently. Most distinctly, the missed resonances $\kappa=1.0\pi$ and $\kappa=3.0\pi$ are created out to induce even larger currents. At the same time, with the help of semiclassical analysis, we prove that our result is exact rather than phenomenon induced by errors of the numerical simulation. Our discovery may be used to realize directed transport efficiently, and may also lead to a deeper understanding of symmetry breaking for the dynamical evolution.

id: 1206.3673
title: Demonstrating macroscopic entanglement based on Kerr non-linearities requires extreme phase resolution
authors: Roohollah Ghobadi, Sadegh Raeisi, Christoph Simon
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3673
abstract: Entangled coherent states, which can in principle be created using strong Kerr non-linearities, allow the violation of Bell inequalities for very coarse-grained measurements. This seems to contradict a recent conjecture that observing quantum effects in macroscopic systems generally requires very precise measurements. However, here we show that both the creation of the required states and the required measurements rely on being able to control the phase of the necessary Kerr-nonlinearity based unitary operations with extreme precision. This lends support to the idea that there is a general principle that makes macroscopic quantum effects difficult to observe, even in the absence of decoherence.

id: 1206.3680
title: On wave theory of the photoeffect
authors: Alexander Komech
comments: 9 oages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3680
abstract: The photoelectric effect has been discovered by H. Hertz, and studied experimentally by P. Lenard. First theoretical explanation has been done by A. Einstein who suggested the corpuscular theory of light introducing the "photons" which are particles of the light. In the framework of the Schr\"odinger theory the effect has been described first by G. Wentzel who calculated the angulardistribution of the photocurrent. The calculation relies on the perturbation procedure applied to the coupled Maxwell-Schr\"odinger equations.

id: 1206.3686
title: Is Quantum Mechanics Falsifiable? A computational perspective on the foundations of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Umesh Vazirani
comments: 12 pages, no figures. This paper is to appear in the Philosophy of Science anthology "Computability: Godel, Turing, Church, and beyond", Editors: Copeland, Posy, Shagrir, MIT press, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3686
abstract: Quantum computation teaches us that quantum mechanics exhibits exponential complexity. We argue that the standard scientific paradigm of "predict and verify" cannot be applied to testing quantum mechanics in this limit of high complexity. We describe how QM can be tested in this regime by extending the usual scientific paradigm to include {\it interactive experiments}.

id: 1206.3695
title: On the largest Bell violation attainable by a quantum state
authors: Carlos Palazuelos
comments: 23 pages, no figures. Comments are welcome. v2: Modified abstract. Refs added. Same results. v3: A constant has been added in Thm 0.1. Minor corrections. Same main results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3695
abstract: We study the projective tensor norm as a measure of the largest Bell violation of a quantum state. In order to do this, we consider a truncated version of a well-known SDP relaxation for the quantum value of a two-prover one-round game, one which has extra restrictions on the dimension of the SDP solutions. Our main result provides a quite accurate upper bound for the distance between the classical value of a Bell inequality and the corresponding value of the relaxation. Along the way, we give a simple proof that the best complementation constant of $\ell_2^n$ in $\ell_1(\ell_\infty)$ is of order $\sqrt{\ln n}$. As a direct consequence, we show that we cannot remove a logarithmic factor when we are computing the largest Bell violation attainable by the maximally entangled state.

id: 1206.3745
title: Generating a Schr?dinger-cat-like state via a coherent superposition of photonic operations
authors: Chang-Woo Lee, Jinhyoung Lee, Hyunchul Nha, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063815 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3745
abstract: We propose an optical scheme to generate a superposition of coherent states with enhanced size adopting an interferometric setting at the single-photon level currently available in the laboratory. Our scheme employs a nondegenerate optical parametric amplifier together with two beam splitters so that the detection of single photons at the output conditionally implements the desired superposition of second-order photonic operations. We analyze our proposed scheme by considering realistic on-off photodetectors with nonideal efficiency in heralding the success of conditional events. A high-quality performance of our scheme is demonstrated in view of various criteria such as quantum fidelity, mean output energy, and measure of quantum interference.

id: 1206.3765
title: The Space Optical Clocks Project: Development of high-performance transportable and breadboard optical clocks and advanced subsystems
authors: S. Schiller, A. G?rlitz, A. Nevsky, S. Alighanbari, S. Vasilyev, C. Abou-Jaoudeh, G. Mura, T. Franzen, U. Sterr, S. Falke, Ch. Lisdat, E. Rasel, A. Kulosa, S. Bize, J. Lodewyck, G. M. Tino, N. Poli, M. Schioppo, K. Bongs, Y. Singh, P. Gill, G. Barwood, Y. Ovchinnikov, J. Stuhler, W. Kaenders, C. Braxmaier, R. Holzwarth, A. Donati, S. Lecomte, D. Calonico, F. Levi
comments: Contribution to European Frequency and Time Forum 2012, Gothenburg, Sweden
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3765
abstract: The use of ultra-precise optical clocks in space ("master clocks") will allow for a range of new applications in the fields of fundamental physics (tests of Einstein's theory of General Relativity, time and frequency metrology by means of the comparison of distant terrestrial clocks), geophysics (mapping of the gravitational potential of Earth), and astronomy (providing local oscillators for radio ranging and interferometry in space). Within the ELIPS-3 program of ESA, the "Space Optical Clocks" (SOC) project aims to install and to operate an optical lattice clock on the ISS towards the end of this decade, as a natural follow-on to the ACES mission, improving its performance by at least one order of magnitude. The payload is planned to include an optical lattice clock, as well as a frequency comb, a microwave link, and an optical link for comparisons of the ISS clock with ground clocks located in several countries and continents. Undertaking a necessary step towards optical clocks in space, the EU-FP7-SPACE-2010-1 project no. 263500 (SOC2) (2011-2015) aims at two "engineering confidence", accurate transportable lattice optical clock demonstrators having relative frequency instability below 1\times10^-15 at 1 s integration time and relative inaccuracy below 5\times10^-17. This goal performance is about 2 and 1 orders better in instability and inaccuracy, respectively, than today's best transportable clocks. The devices will be based on trapped neutral ytterbium and strontium atoms. One device will be a breadboard. The two systems will be validated in laboratory environments and their performance will be established by comparison with laboratory optical clocks and primary frequency standards. In this paper we present the project and the results achieved during the first year.

id: 1206.3775
title: Dimensions, lengths and separability in finite-dimensional quantum systems
authors: Lin Chen, Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: Final version, 11 pages, 2 tables
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 022201 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3775
abstract: Many important sets of normalized states in a multipartite quantum system of finite dimension d, such as the set S of all separable states, are real semialgebraic sets. We compute dimensions of many such sets in several low-dimensional systems. By using dimension arguments, we show that there exist separable states which are not convex combinations of d or less pure product states. For instance, such states exist in bipartite M x N systems when (M-1)(N-1)>1. This solves an open problem proposed in [J. Mod. Opt. 47 (2000), 377-385]. We prove that there exist a separable state rho and a pure product state, whose mixture has smaller length than that of rho. We show that any real rho in S, which is invariant under all partial transpose operations, is a convex sum of real pure product states. In the case of the 2 x N system, the number r of product states can be taken to be r=rank(rho). We also show that the general multipartite separability problem can be reduced to the case of real states. Regarding the separability problem, we propose two conjectures describing S as a semialgebraic set, which may eventually lead to an analytic solution in some low-dimensional systems such as 2 x 4, 3 x 3 and 2 x 2 x 2.

id: 1206.3784
title: Teleportation of Accelerated Information
authors: N. Metwally
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am B Vol 30 No. 1 pages 233-237 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3784
abstract: A theoretical quantum teleportation protocal is suggested to teleport accelerated and non-accelerated information over different classes of accelerated quantum channels. For the accelerated information, it is shown that the fidelity of the teleported state increases as the entanglement of the initial quantum channel increases. However as the difference between the accelerated channel and the accelerated information decreases the fidelity increases. The fidelity of the non accelerated information increases as the entanglement of the initial quantum channel increases, while the accelerations of the quantum channel has a little effect. The possibility of sending quantum information over accelerated quantum channels is much better than sending classical information.

id: 1206.3794
title: On the Debate Concerning the Proper Characterisation of Quantum Dynamical Evolution
authors: Michael E. Cuffaro, Wayne C. Myrvold
comments: To be presented at the 2012 biennial meeting of the Philosophy of Science Association (PSA), San Diego, California
journal: Philosophy of Science Vol. 80, No. 5 (December 2013), pp. 1125-1136
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3794
abstract: There has been a long-standing and sometimes passionate debate between physicists over whether a dynamical framework for quantum systems should incorporate not completely positive (NCP) maps in addition to completely positive (CP) maps. Despite the reasonableness of the arguments for complete positivity, we argue that NCP maps should be allowed, with a qualification: these should be understood, not as reflecting 'not completely positive' evolution, but as linear extensions, to a system's entire state space, of CP maps that are only partially defined. Beyond the domain of definition of a partial-CP map, we argue, much may be permitted.

id: 1206.3809
title: High-quality polarization entanglement state preparation and manipulation in standard telecommunication channels
authors: F. Kaiser, A. Issautier, L. A. Ngah, O. Danila, H. Herrmann, W. Sohler, A. Martin, S. Tanzilli
comments: 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 085015 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3809
abstract: We report a novel and simple approach for generating near-perfect quality polarization entanglement in a fully guided-wave fashion. Both deterministic pair separation into two adjacent telecommunication channels and the paired photons' temporal walk-off compensation are achieved using standard fiber components. Two-photon interference experiments are performed, both for quantitatively demonstrating the relevance of our approach, and for manipulating the produced state between bosonic and fermionic symmetries. The compactness, versatility, and reliability of this configuration makes it a potential candidate for quantum communication applications.

id: 1206.3830
title: Optimizing qubit Hamiltonian parameter estimation algorithms using PSO
authors: Alexandr Sergeevich, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures, presented at 2012 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation, to be published in the proceedings
journal: Proceedings of 2012 IEEE Conference on Evolutionary Computation (CEC), 10-15 June 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3830
abstract: We develop qubit Hamiltonian single parameter estimation techniques using a Bayesian approach. The algorithms considered are restricted to projective measurements in a fixed basis, and are derived under the assumption that the qubit measurement is much slower than the characteristic qubit evolution. We optimize a non-adaptive algorithm using particle swarm optimization (PSO) and compare with a previously-developed locally-optimal scheme.

id: 1206.3847
title: Emergence of a measurement basis in atom-photon scattering
authors: Yinnon Glickman, Shlomi Kotler, Nitzan Akerman, Roee Ozeri
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3847
abstract: The process of quantum measurement has been a long standing source of debate. A measurement is postulated to collapse a wavefunction onto one of the states of a predetermined set - the measurement basis. This basis origin is not specified within quantum mechanics. According to the theory of decohernce, a measurement basis is singled out by the nature of coupling of a quantum system to its environment. Here we show how a measurement basis emerges in the evolution of the electronic spin of a single trapped atomic ion due to spontaneous photon scattering. Using quantum process tomography we visualize the projection of all spin directions, onto this basis, as a photon is scattered. These basis spin states are found to be aligned with the scattered photon propagation direction. In accordance with decohernce theory, they are subjected to a minimal increase in entropy due to the photon scattering, while, orthogonal states become fully mixed and their entropy is maximally increased. Moreover, we show that detection of the scattered photon polarization measures the spin state of the ion, in the emerging basis, with high fidelity. Lastly, we show that while photon scattering entangles all superpositions of pointer states with the scattered photon polarization, the measurement-basis states themselves remain classically correlated with it. Our findings show that photon scattering by atomic spin superpositions fulfils all the requirements from a quantum measurement process.

id: 1206.3884
title: Maximal Entanglement via Collective Coordinates
authors: M. Revzen
comments: 7 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1206.0356, arXiv:1205.5406
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3884
abstract: Maximal entangled states (MES) provide a basis to 2d-dimensional particles Hilbert space, d=prime $\ne2$. These states allow generalization of the Mean King Problem. The states may be viewed as build of points each underpins a product state carrying a mutual unbiased bases (MUB) label or, alternatively, as product states labeled with center of mass and relative coordinates. The coordinate-like label of the center of mass and the momentum-like of the relative coordinates provides a MES account of the Hilbert space in close analogy with the single particle phase space coordinates.

id: 1206.3897
title: Sampled-data design for robust control of a single qubit
authors: Daoyi Dong, Ian R. Petersen, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 33 pages, 5 figures, minor corrections
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 58, pp.2054-2059, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3897
abstract: This paper presents a sampled-data approach for the robust control of a single qubit (quantum bit). The required robustness is defined using a sliding mode domain and the control law is designed offline and then utilized online with a single qubit having bounded uncertainties. Two classes of uncertainties are considered involving the system Hamiltonian and the coupling strength of the system-environment interaction. Four cases are analyzed in detail including without decoherence, with amplitude damping decoherence, phase damping decoherence and depolarizing decoherence. Sampling periods are specifically designed for these cases to guarantee the required robustness. Two sufficient conditions are presented for guiding the design of unitary control for the cases without decoherence and with amplitude damping decoherence. The proposed approach has potential applications in quantum error-correction and in constructing robust quantum gates.

id: 1206.3928
title: Multipartite minimum uncertainty products
authors: E. Shchukin
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042124 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3928
abstract: In our previous work we have found a lower bound for the multipartite uncertainty product of the position and momentum observables over all separable states. In this work we are trying to minimize this uncertainty product over a broader class of states to find the fundamental limits imposed by nature on the observable quantites. We show that it is necessary to consider pure states only and find the infimum of the uncertainty product over a special class of pure states (states with spherically symmetric wave functions). It is shown that this infimum is not attained. We also explicitly construct a parametrized family of states that approaches the infimum by varying the parameter. Since the constructed states beat the lower bound for separable states, they are entangled. We thus show that there is a gap that separates the values of a simple measurable quantity for separable states from entangled ones and we also try to find the size of this gap.

id: 1206.4006
title: Modes of Oscillation in Radiofrequency Paul Traps
authors: H. Landa, M. Drewsen, B. Reznik, A. Retzker
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures, v2 adds citations and small corrections
journal: New J. Phys. 14 093023 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4006
abstract: We examine the time-dependent dynamics of ion crystals in radiofrequency traps. The problem of stable trapping of general three-dimensional crystals is considered and the validity of the pseudopotential approximation is discussed. We derive analytically the micromotion amplitude of the ions, rigorously proving well-known experimental observations. We use a method of infinite determinants to find the modes which diagonalize the linearized time-dependent dynamical problem. This allows obtaining explicitly the ('Floquet-Lyapunov') transformation to coordinates of decoupled linear oscillators. We demonstrate the utility of the method by analyzing the modes of a small `peculiar' crystal in a linear Paul trap. The calculations can be readily generalized to multispecies ion crystals in general multipole traps, and time-dependent quantum wavefunctions of ion oscillations in such traps can be obtained.

id: 1206.4018
title: Quantum polarization transformations in anisotropic dispersive medium
authors: Yu. I. Bogdanov, A. A. Kalinkin, S. P. Kulik, E. V. Moreva, V. A. Shershulin
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4018
abstract: Based on the concept of chi-matrix and Choi-Jamiolkowski states we develop the approach of quantum process reconstruction. Special attention is paid to the adequacy of applied reconstruction models. The approach is applied to the statistical reconstruction of the polarization transformations in anisotropic and dispersive media realized by means of quartz plates and taking into account spectral shape of input states.

id: 1206.4029
title: All Multiparty Quantum States Can Be Made Monogamous
authors: Salini K., R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 6.5 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX 4-1, Title in the published version is "Monotonically increasing functions of any quantum correlation can make all multiparty states monogamous"
journal: Ann. Phys. 348, 297 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4029
abstract: Monogamy of quantum correlation measures puts restrictions on the sharability of quantum correlations in multiparty quantum states. Multiparty quantum states can satisfy or violate monogamy relations with respect to given quantum correlations. We show that all multiparty quantum states can be made monogamous with respect to all measures. More precisely, given any quantum correlation measure that is non-monogamic for a multiparty quantum state, it is always possible to find a monotonically increasing function of the measure that is monogamous for the same state. The statement holds for all quantum states, whether pure or mixed, in all finite dimensions and for an arbitrary number of parties. The monotonically increasing function of the quantum correlation measure satisfies all the properties that is expected for quantum correlations to follow. We illustrate the concepts by considering a thermodynamic measure of quantum correlation, called the quantum work deficit.

id: 1206.4032
title: Rank-based model selection for multiple ions quantum tomography
authors: Madalin Guta, Theodore Kypraios, Ian Dryden
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures, 3 tables
journal: New J. Phys. (14) 105002, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Applications (stat.AP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4032
abstract: The statistical analysis of measurement data has become a key component of many quantum engineering experiments. As standard full state tomography becomes unfeasible for large dimensional quantum systems, one needs to exploit prior information and the "sparsity" properties of the experimental state in order to reduce the dimensionality of the estimation problem. In this paper we propose model selection as a general principle for finding the simplest, or most parsimonious explanation of the data, by fitting different models and choosing the estimator with the best trade-off between likelihood fit and model complexity. We apply two well established model selection methods -- the Akaike information criterion (AIC) and the Bayesian information criterion (BIC) -- to models consising of states of fixed rank and datasets such as are currently produced in multiple ions experiments. We test the performance of AIC and BIC on randomly chosen low rank states of 4 ions, and study the dependence of the selected rank with the number of measurement repetitions for one ion states. We then apply the methods to real data from a 4 ions experiment aimed at creating a Smolin state of rank 4. The two methods indicate that the optimal model for describing the data lies between ranks 6 and 9, and the Pearson $\chi^{2}$ test is applied to validate this conclusion. Additionally we find that the mean square error of the maximum likelihood estimator for pure states is close to that of the optimal over all possible measurements.

id: 1206.4075
title: Quantifying nonclassicality: global impact of local unitary evolutions
authors: S. M. Giampaolo, A. Streltsov, W. Roga, D. Bru?, F. Illuminati
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. To appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012313 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4075
abstract: We show that only those composite quantum systems possessing nonvanishing quantum correlations have the property that any nontrivial local unitary evolution changes their global state. We derive the exact relation between the global state change induced by local unitary evolutions and the amount of quantum correlations. We prove that the minimal change coincides with the geometric measure of discord (defined via the Hilbert- Schmidt norm), thus providing the latter with an operational interpretation in terms of the capability of a local unitary dynamics to modify a global state. We establish that two-qubit Werner states are maximally quantum correlated, and are thus the ones that maximize this type of global quantum effect. Finally, we show that similar results hold when replacing the Hilbert-Schmidt norm with the trace norm.

id: 1206.4109
title: Unifying Treatment of Discord via Relative Entropy
authors: Lin Zhang, Shao-Ming Fei, Jun Zhu
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX. Some parts are deleted. Any comments are welcome!
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 52(6): 1946-1955(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4109
abstract: A new form of zero-discord state via Petz's monotonicity condition on relative entropy with equality has been derived systematically. A generalization of symmetric zero-discord states is presented and the related physical implications are discussed.

id: 1206.4113
title: Minimax optimization of entanglement witness operator for the quantification of three-qubit mixed-state entanglement
authors: Sungguen Ryu, Seung-Sup B. Lee, H.-S. Sim
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042324 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4113
abstract: We develop a numerical approach for quantifying entanglement in mixed quantum states by convex-roof entanglement measures, based on the optimal entanglement witness operator and the minimax optimization method. Our approach is applicable to general entanglement measures and states and is an efficient alternative to the conventional approach based on the optimal pure-state decomposition. Compared with the conventional one, it has two important merits: (i) that the global optimality of the solution is quantitatively verifiable, and (ii) that the optimization is considerably simplified by exploiting the common symmetry of the target state and measure. To demonstrate the merits, we quantify Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) entanglement in a class of three-qubit full-rank mixed states composed of the GHZ state, the W state, and the white noise, the simplest mixtures of states with different genuine multipartite entanglement, which have not been quantified before this work. We discuss some general properties of the form of the optimal witness operator and of the convex structure of mixed states, which are related to the symmetry and the rank of states.

id: 1206.4121
title: The information-theoretic costs of simulating quantum measurements
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Patrick Hayden, Francesco Buscemi, Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: 77 pages, 7 figures; v2, minor changes to clarify notation
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical vol. 45, no. 45, p. 453001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4121
abstract: Winter's measurement compression theorem stands as one of the most penetrating insights of quantum information theory (QIT). In addition to making an original and profound statement about measurement in quantum theory, it also underlies several other general protocols in QIT. In this paper, we provide a full review of Winter's measurement compression theorem, detailing the information processing task, giving examples for understanding it, reviewing Winter's achievability proof, and detailing a new approach to its single-letter converse theorem. We prove an extension of the theorem to the case in which the sender is not required to receive the outcomes of the simulated measurement. The total cost of common randomness and classical communication can be lower for such a "non-feedback" simulation, and we prove a single-letter converse theorem demonstrating optimality. We then review the Devetak-Winter theorem on classical data compression with quantum side information, providing new proofs of its achievability and converse parts. From there, we outline a new protocol that we call "measurement compression with quantum side information," announced previously by two of us in our work on triple trade-offs in quantum Shannon theory. This protocol has several applications, including its part in the "classically-assisted state redistribution" protocol, which is the most general protocol on the static side of the quantum information theory tree, and its role in reducing the classical communication cost in a task known as local purity distillation. We also outline a connection between measurement compression with quantum side information and recent work on entropic uncertainty relations in the presence of quantum memory. Finally, we prove a single-letter theorem characterizing measurement compression with quantum side information when the sender is not required to obtain the measurement outcome.

id: 1206.4145
title: Optimal discrimination of quantum states with a fixed rate of inconclusive outcomes
authors: E. Bagan, R. Munoz-Tapia, G. A. Olivares-Renteria, J. A. Bergou
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 040303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4145
abstract: In this paper we present the solution to the problem of optimally discriminating among quantum states, i.e., identifying the states with maximum probability of success when a certain fixed rate of inconclusive answers is allowed. By varying the inconclusive rate, the scheme optimally interpolates between Unambiguous and Minimum Error discrimination, the two standard approaches to quantum state discrimination. We introduce a very general method that enables us to obtain the solution in a wide range of cases and give a complete characterization of the minimum discrimination error as a function of the rate of inconclusive answers. A critical value of this rate is identified that coincides with the minimum failure probability in the cases where unambiguous discrimination is possible and provides a natural generalization of it when states cannot be unambiguously discriminated. The method is illustrated on two explicit examples: discrimination of two pure states with arbitrary prior probabilities and discrimination of trine states.

id: 1206.4149
title: Equation of motion method for Full Counting Statistics: Steady state superradiance
authors: Malte Vogl, Gernot Schaller, Eckehard Sch?ll, Tobias Brandes
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, revised version, accepted by PRA
journal: Physical Review A 86, 033820 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4149
abstract: For the multi-mode Dicke model in a transport setting that exhibits collective boson transmissions, we construct the equation of motion for the cumulant generating function. Approximating the exact system of equations at the level of cumulant generating function and system operators at lowest order, allows us to recover master equation results of the Full Counting Statistics for certain parameter regimes at very low cost of computation. The thermodynamic limit, that is not accessible with the master equation approach, can be derived analytically for different approximations.

id: 1206.4171
title: Quantum quenches of ion Coulomb crystals across structural instabilities
authors: Jens D. Baltrusch, Cecilia Cormick, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures; added a paragraph in the introduction providing more background, added paragraph at the end of Sec. IV discussing experimental parameters
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032104 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4171
abstract: Quenches in an ion chain can create coherent superpositions of motional states across the linear-zigzag structural transition. The procedure has been described in [Phys. Rev. A 84, 063821 (2011)] and makes use of spin-dependent forces, so that a coherent superposition of the electronic states of one ion evolves into an entangled state between the chain's internal and external degrees of freedom. The properties of the crystalline state so generated are theoretically studied by means of Ramsey interferometry on one ion of the chain. An analytical expression for the visibility of the interferometric measurement is obtained for a chain of arbitrary number of ions and as a function of the time elapsed after the quench. Sufficiently close to the linear-zigzag instability the visibility decays very fast, but exhibits revivals at the period of oscillation of the mode that drives the structural instability. These revivals have a periodicity that is independent of the crystal size, and they signal the creation of entanglement by the quantum quench.

id: 1206.4197
title: Quantum Adiabatic Markovian Master Equations
authors: Tameem Albash, Sergio Boixo, Daniel A. Lidar, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 31 pages, 9 figures. v2: Generalized Markov approximation bound. Included a section on thermal equilibration. v3: Added text that appears in NJP version. Generalized Lindblad ME to include degenerate subspaces
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 123016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4197
abstract: We develop from first principles Markovian master equations suited for studying the time evolution of a system evolving adiabatically while coupled weakly to a thermal bath. We derive two sets of equations in the adiabatic limit, one using the rotating wave (secular) approximation that results in a master equation in Lindblad form, the other without the rotating wave approximation but not in Lindblad form. The two equations make markedly different predictions depending on whether or not the Lamb shift is included. Our analysis keeps track of the various time- and energy-scales associated with the various approximations we make, and thus allows for a systematic inclusion of higher order corrections, in particular beyond the adiabatic limit. We use our formalism to study the evolution of an Ising spin chain in a transverse field and coupled to a thermal bosonic bath, for which we identify four distinct evolution phases. While we do not expect this to be a generic feature, in one of these phases dissipation acts to increase the fidelity of the system state relative to the adiabatic ground state.

id: 1206.4204
title: Fourier processing of quantum light
authors: Eilon Poem, Yehonatan Gilead, Yoav Lahini, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023836 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4204
abstract: It is shown that a classical optical Fourier processor can be used for the shaping of quantum correlations between two or more photons, and the class of Fourier masks applicable in the multiphoton Fourier space is identified. This concept is experimentally demonstrated using two types of periodic phase masks illuminated with path-entangled photon pairs, a highly non-classical state of light. Applied first were sinusoidal phase masks, emulating two-particle quantum walk on a periodic lattice, yielding intricate correlation patterns with various spatial bunching and anti-bunching effects depending on the initial state. Then, a periodic Zernike-like filter was applied on top of the sinusoidal phase masks. Using this filter, phase information lost in the original correlation measurements was retrieved.

id: 1206.4223
title: Probing topological order with R¨¦nyi entropy
authors: G¨¢bor B. Hal¨¢sz, Alioscia Hamma
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures, published version with structural changes only
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062330 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4223
abstract: We present an analytical study of the quantum phase transition between the topologically ordered toric-code-model ground state and the disordered spin-polarized state. The phase transition is induced by applying an external magnetic field, and the variation in topological order is detected via two non-local quantities: the Wilson loop and the topological Renyi entropy of order 2. By exploiting an equivalence with the transverse-field Ising model and considering two different variants of the problem, we investigate the field dependence of these quantities by means of an exact treatment in the exactly solvable variant and complementary perturbation theories around the limits of zero and infinite fields in both variants. We find strong evidence that the phase transition point between topological order and disorder is marked by a discontinuity in the topological Renyi entropy and that the two phases around the phase transition point are characterized by its different constant values. Our results therefore indicate that the topological Renyi entropy is a proper topological invariant: its allowed values are discrete and can be used to distinguish between different phases of matter.

id: 1206.4239
title: On the Quantum Theory of Molecules
authors: Brian T. Sutcliffe, R. Guy Woolley
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4239
abstract: Transition state theory was introduced in the 1930s to account for chemical reactions. Central to this theory is the idea of a potential energy surface (PES). It was assumed that such a surface could be constructed using eigensolutions of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the molecular (Coulomb) Hamiltonian but at that time such calculations were not possible. Nowadays quantum mechanical ab-initio electronic structure calculations are routine and from their results PESs can be constructed which are believed to approximate those assumed derivable from the eigensolutions. It is argued here that this belief is unfounded. It is suggested that the potential energy surface construction is more appropriately regarded as a legitimate and effective modification of quantum mechanics for chemical purposes

id: 1206.4246
title: Classification of entanglement and quantum phase transition in XX model
authors: Ting Zhang, Pinx-Xing Chen, Wei-Tao Liu, Cheng-Zu Li
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4246
abstract: We study the relation between entanglement and quantum phase transition (QPT) from a new perspective. Motivated by one's intuition: QPT is characterized by the change of the ground-state structure, while entangled states belong to different classes have different structures, we conjecture that QPT occurs as the class of ground-state entanglement changes and prove it in XX model. Despite the classification of multipartite entanglement is yet unresolved, we proposed a new method to judge whether two many-body states belong to the same entanglement class.

id: 1206.4247
title: Implementation of classical communication in a quantum world
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures; final version
journal: Information 3: 809-831, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4247
abstract: Observations of quantum systems carried out by finite observers who subsequently communicate their results using classical data structures can be described as "local operations, classical communication" (LOCC) observations. The implementation of LOCC observations by the Hamiltonian dynamics prescribed by minimal quantum mechanics is investigated. It is shown that LOCC observations cannot be described using decoherence considerations alone, but rather require the \textit{a priori} stipulation of a positive operator-valued measure (POVM) about which communicating observers agree. It is also shown that the transfer of classical information from system to observer can be described in terms of system-observer entanglement, raising the possibility that an apparatus implementing an appropriate POVM can reveal the entangled system-observer states that implement LOCC observations.

id: 1206.4254
title: Matrix Product States with long-range Localizable Entanglement
authors: Thorsten B. Wahl, David Perez-Garcia, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062314 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4254
abstract: We derive a criterion to determine when a translationally invariant matrix product state (MPS) has long-range localizable entanglement, where that quantity remains finite in the thermodynamic limit. We give examples fulfilling this criterion and eventually use it to obtain all such MPS with bond dimension 2 and 3.

id: 1206.4260
title: Long coherence time of spin qubits in $^{12}$C enriched polycrystalline CVD diamond
authors: K. D. Jahnke, B. Naydenov, T. Teraji, S.Koizumi, T. Umeda, J. Isoya, F. Jelezko
comments: Accepted for publication in APL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4260
abstract: Single defects in diamond and especially negatively charged nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers are very promising quantum systems with wide applications in physics and biology. It was shown that their coherence properties can be strongly improved by growing ultrapure diamond with low concentration of parasitic spins associated with nitrogen electron spins and nuclear spins related to $^{13}$C carbon isotope. Here we report a high quality $^{12}$C-enriched polycrystalline CVD diamond material with properties comparable with single crystals. We find single NVs in the grains of this material, which show extremely long electron spin coherence time $T_2 > 2\,ms$.

id: 1206.4269
title: Positive Quantum Brownian Evolution
authors: Allan Tameshtit, J. E. Sipe
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 77, 2600 (1996)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4269
abstract: Using the independent oscillator model with an arbitrary system potential, we derive a quantum Brownian equation assuming a correlated total initial state. Although not of Lindblad form, the equation preserves positivity of the density operator on a restricted set of initial states.

id: 1206.4348
title: Entanglement-enabled delayed choice experiment
authors: F. Kaiser, T. Coudreau, P. Milman, D. B. Ostrowsky, S. Tanzilli
comments: 8 Figures
journal: Science 338, 637-640 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4348
abstract: Complementarity, that is the ability of a quantum object to behave either as a particle or as a wave, is one of the most intriguing features of quantum mechanics. An exemplary Gedanken experiment, emphasizing such a measurement-dependent nature, was suggested by Wheeler using single photons. The subtleness of the idea lies in the fact that the output beam-splitter of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer is put in or removed after a photon has already entered the interferometer, thus performing a delayed test of the wave-particle complementary behavior. Recently, it was proposed that using a quantum analogue of the output beam-splitter would permit carrying out this type of test after the detection of the photon and observing wave-particle superposition. In this paper we describe an experimental demonstration of these predictions using another extraordinary property of quantum systems, entanglement. We use a pair of polarization entangled photons composed of one photon whose nature (wave or particle) is tested, and of a corroborative photon that allows determining which one, or both, of these two aspects is being tested. This corroborative photon infers the presence or absence of the beam-splitter and until it is measured, the beam-splitter is in a superposition of these two states, making it a quantum beam-splitter. When the quantum beam-splitter is in the state present or absent, the interferometer reveals the wave or particle nature of the test photon, respectively. Furthermore, by manipulating the corroborative photon, we can continuously morph, via entanglement, the test photon from wave to particle behavior even after it was detected. This result underlines the fact that a simple vision of light as a classical wave or a particle is inadequate.

id: 1206.4378
title: Zero and finite temperature Casimir effect of massive vector field between real metals
authors: L. P. Teo
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53 (2012), 102302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4378
abstract: We consider the Casimir effect of a massive vector field between two semi-infinite dielectric slabs. We first derive the generalization of the Lifshitz formula that gives the Casimir interaction energy of two magnetodielectric slabs separated by a magnetodielectric medium due to the vacuum fluctuations of a massive vector field. We then discuss the asymptotic behaviors of the Casimir energy and the Casimir force in various limits, such as low temperature, high temperature, small mass, large mass, up to the first order in the finite conductivity correction, for two real metal semispaces whose dielectric property is described by the plasma model. Application to the Casimir effect in Randall-Sundrum spacetime is briefly discussed.

id: 1206.4385
title: Comment on "Quantum phase for an arbitrary system with finite-dimensional Hilbert space"
authors: Michael J. W. Hall, David T. Pegg
comments: 4 pages, accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86 (2012) 056101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4385
abstract: A construction of covariant quantum phase observables, for Hamiltonians with a finite number of energy eigenvalues, has been recently given by D. Arsenovic et al. [Phys. Rev. A 85, 044103 (2012)]. For Hamiltonians generating periodic evolution, we show that this construction is just a simple rescaling of the known canonical 'time' or 'age' observable, with the period T rescaled to 2\pi. Further, for Hamiltonians generating quasiperiodic evolution, we note that the construction leads to a phase observable having several undesirable features, including (i) having a trivially uniform probability density for any state of the system, (ii) not reducing to the periodic case in an appropriate limit, and (iii) not having any clear generalisation to an infinite energy spectrum. In contrast, we note that a covariant time observable has been previously defined for such Hamiltonians, which avoids these features. We also show how this 'quasiperiodic' time observable can be represented as the well-defined limit of a sequence of periodic time observables.

id: 1206.4412
title: Optimal state discrimination with a fixed rate of inconclusive results: Analytical solutions and relation to state discrimination with a fixed error rate
authors: Ulrike Herzog
comments: Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032314 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4412
abstract: We study an optimum measurement for quantum state discrimination, which maximizes the probability of correct results when the probability of inconclusive results is fixed at a given value. The measurement describes minimum-error discrimination if this value is zero, while under certain conditions it corresponds to optimized maximum-confidence discrimination, or to optimum unambiguous discrimination, respectively, when the fixed value reaches a definite minimum. Using operator conditions that determine the optimum measurement, we derive analytical solutions for the discrimination of two mixed qubit states, including the case of two pure states occurring with arbitrary prior probabilities, and for the discrimination of N symmetric states, both pure and mixed. We also consider a case where the given density operators resolve the identity operator, and we specify the optimality conditions for the case of partially symmetric states. Moreover, we show that from the complete solution for arbitrary values of the fixed rate of inconclusive results one can always obtain the optimum measurement in another strategy where the error rate is fixed, and vice versa.

id: 1206.4422
title: Localization of the Grover walks on spidernets and free Meixner laws
authors: Norio Konno, Nobuaki Obata, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 32 pages
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, 322 (2013) 667-695
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4422
abstract: A spidernet is a graph obtained by adding large cycles to an almost regular tree and considered as an example having intermediate properties of lattices and trees in the study of discrete-time quantum walks on graphs. We introduce the Grover walk on a spidernet and its one-dimensional reduction. We derive an integral representation of the $n$-step transition amplitude in terms of the free Meixner law which appears as the spectral distribution. As an application we determine the class of spidernets which exhibit localization. Our method is based on quantum probabilistic spectral analysis of graphs.

id: 1206.4430
title: Long-lived driven solid-state quantum memory
authors: J.-M. Cai, F. Jelezko, N. Katz, A. Retzker, M. B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 093030 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4430
abstract: We investigate the performance of inhomogeneously broadened spin ensembles as quantum memories under continuous dynamical decoupling. The role of the continuous driving field is two-fold: first, it decouples individual spins from magnetic noise; second and more important, it suppresses and reshapes the spectral inhomogeneity of spin ensembles. We show that a continuous driving field, which itself may also be inhomogeneous over the ensemble, can enhance the decay of the tails of the inhomogeneous broadening distribution considerably. This fact enables a spin ensemble based quantum memory to exploit the effect of cavity protection and achieve a much longer storage time. In particular, for a spin ensemble with a Lorentzian spectral distribution, our calculations demonstrate that continuous dynamical decoupling has the potential to improve its storage time by orders of magnitude for the state-of-art experimental parameters.

id: 1206.4442
title: Persistent Quantum Beats and Long-Distance Entanglement from Waveguide-Mediated Interactions
authors: Huaixiu Zheng, Harold U. Baranger
comments: 5 pages main text + 5 pages supplementary material; substantial rewriting of the discussion about effective qubit lifetime, loss effects, and experimental relevance
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 113601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4442
abstract: We study photon-photon correlations and entanglement generation in a one-dimensional waveguide coupled to two qubits with an arbitrary spatial separation. We develop a novel Green function method to study vacuum-mediated qubit-qubit interactions, including both spontaneous and coherent couplings. As a result of these interactions, quantum beats appear in the second-order correlation function. We go beyond the Markovian regime and observe that such quantum beats persist much longer than the qubit life time. Using these non-Markovian processes, a high degree of long-distance entanglement can be generated, making waveguide-QED systems promising candidates for scalable quantum networking.

id: 1206.4446
title: Observation of one-way Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering
authors: Vitus H?ndchen, Tobias Eberle, Sebastian Steinlechner, Aiko Samblowski, Torsten Franz, Reinhard F. Werner, Roman Schnabel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 6, 598-601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4446
abstract: The distinctive non-classical features of quantum physics were first discussed in the seminal paper by A. Einstein, B. Podolsky and N. Rosen (EPR) in 1935. In his immediate response E. Schr\"odinger introduced the notion of entanglement, now seen as the essential resource in quantum information as well as in quantum metrology. Furthermore he showed that at the core of the EPR argument is a phenomenon which he called steering. In contrast to entanglement and violations of Bell's inequalities, steering implies a direction between the parties involved. Recent theoretical works have precisely defined this property. Here we present an experimental realization of two entangled Gaussian modes of light by which in fact one party can steer the other but not conversely. The generated one-way steering gives a new insight into quantum physics and may open a new field of applications in quantum information.

id: 1206.4451
title: Diagonal-unitary 2-designs and their implementations by quantum circuits
authors: Yoshifumi Nakata, Mio Murao
comments: Revised, 22 pages + Appendix, 3 figures; major revision from v2; presentation is improved in v4; v5 is a published version
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. 11, 1350062 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4451
abstract: We study efficient generations of random diagonal-unitary matrices, an ensemble of unitary matrices diagonal in a given basis with randomly distributed phases for their eigenvalues. Despite the simple algebraic structure, they cannot be achieved by quantum circuits composed of a few-qubit diagonal gates. We introduce diagonal-unitary $t$-designs and present two quantum circuits that implement diagonal-unitary $2$-designs with the computational basis in $N$-qubit systems. One is composed of single-qubit diagonal gates and controlled-phase gates with randomized phases, which achieves an exact diagonal-unitary $2$-design after applying the gates on all pairs of qubits. The number of required gates is $N(N-1)/2$. If the controlled-Z gates are used instead of the controlled-phase gates, the circuit cannot achieve an exact $2$-design, but achieves an $\epsilon$-approximate $2$-design by applying gates on randomly selected pairs of qubits. Due to the random choice of pairs, the circuit obtains extra randomness and the required number of gates is at most $O(N^2(N+\log1/\epsilon))$. We also provide an application of the circuits, a protocol of generating an exact $2$-design of random states by combining the circuits with a simple classical procedure requiring $O(N)$ random classical bits.

id: 1206.4459
title: Improving the optomechanical entanglement and cooling by photothermal force
authors: Mehdi Abdi, Ali Reza Bahrampour
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063839 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4459
abstract: Cooling and Entanglement in optomechanical systems coupled through radiation pressure and photothermal force is studied. To develop the photothermal model, we derive an expression for deformation constant of the force. Exploiting linearized quantum Langevin equations we investigate dynamics of such systems. According to our analysis, in addition to separate action of radiation pressure and photothermal force, their cross correlation effect plays an important role in dynamics of the system. We also achieve an exact relation for the phonon number of the mechanical resonator in such systems, and then we derive an analytical expression for it at weak coupling limit. At strong coupling regime, we show that utilizing the photothermal pressure makes the ground state cooling more approachable. The effect of photothermal force on the optomechanical entanglement is investigated in detail. According to our exact numerical and approximate analytical studies, even though the photothermal force is naturally a dissipative force, it can improve the optomechanical entanglement both quantitatively and qualitatively.

id: 1206.4490
title: General non-Markovian dynamics of open quantum systems
authors: Wei-Min Zhang, Ping-Yuan Lo, Heng-Na Xiong, Matisse Wei-Yuan Tu, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 170402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4490
abstract: We present a general theory of non-Markovian dynamics for open quantum systems. We explore the non-Markovian dynamics by connecting the exact master equations with the non-equilibirum Green functions. Environmental back-actions are fully taken into account. The non-Markovian dynamics consists of non-exponential decays and dissipationless oscillations. Non-exponential decays are induced by the discontinuity in the imaginary part of the self-energy corrections. Dissipationless oscillations arise from band gaps or the finite band structure of spectral densities. The exact analytic solutions for various non-Markovian environments show that the non-Markovian dynamics can be largely understood from the environmental-modified spectra of the open systems.

id: 1206.4510
title: Identification of Decoherence-Free Subspaces Without Quantum Process Tomography
authors: D. H. Mahler, L. Rozema, A. Darabi, A. M. Steinberg
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4510
abstract: Characterizing a quantum process is the critical first step towards applying such a process in a quantum information protocol. Full process characterization is known to be extremely resource-intensive, motivating the search for more efficient ways to extract salient information about the process. An example is the identification of "decoherence-free subspaces", in which computation or communications may be carried out, immune to the principal sources of decoherence in the system. Here we propose and demonstrate a protocol which enables one to directly identify a DFS without carrying out a full reconstruction. Our protocol offers an up-to-quadratic speedup over standard process tomography. In this paper, we experimentally identify the DFS of a two-qubit process with 32 measurements rather than the usual 256, characterize the robustness and efficiency of the protocol, and discuss its extension to higher-dimensional systems.

id: 1206.4519
title: Factorization method and new potentials from the inverted oscillator
authors: David Bermudez, David J. Fernandez C
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures, 2 tables. The new version has a new section for the algebras of the harmonic and inverted oscillators, a new appendix, and color figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4519
abstract: In this article we will apply the first- and second-order supersymmetric quantum mechanics to obtain new exactly-solvable real potentials departing from the inverted oscillator potential. This system has some special properties; in particular, only very specific second-order transformations produce non-singular real potentials. It will be shown that these transformations turn out to be the so-called complex ones. Moreover, we will study the factorization method applied to the inverted oscillator and the algebraic structure of the new Hamiltonians.

id: 1206.4714
title: Weak values are universal in von Neumann measurements
authors: J. Dressel, A. N. Jordan
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, includes Supplementary Material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 230402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4714
abstract: We refute the widely held belief that the quantum weak value necessarily pertains to weak measurements. To accomplish this, we use the transverse position of a beam as the detector for the conditioned von Neumann measurement of a system observable. For any coupling strength, any initial states, and any choice of conditioning, the averages of the detector position and momentum are completely described by the real parts of three generalized weak values in the joint Hilbert space. Higher-order detector moments also have similar weak value expansions. Using the Wigner distribution of the initial detector state, we find compact expressions for these weak values within the reduced system Hilbert space. As an application of the approach, we show that for any Hermite-Gauss mode of a paraxial beam-like detector these expressions reduce to the real and imaginary parts of a single system weak value plus an additional weak-value-like contribution that only affects the momentum shift.

id: 1206.4747
title: A quantum algorithm for solving some discrete mathematical problems by probing their energy spectra
authors: Hefeng Wang, Heng Fan, Fuli Li
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 89, 012306 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4747
abstract: When a probe qubit is coupled to a quantum register that represents a physical system, the probe qubit will exhibit a dynamical response only when it is resonant with a transition in the system. Using this principle, we propose a quantum algorithm for solving discrete mathematical problems based on the circuit model. Our algorithm has favorable scaling properties in solving some discrete mathematical problems.

id: 1206.4772
title: Space-time crystals of trapped ions
authors: Tongcang Li, Zhe-Xuan Gong, Zhang-Qi Yin, H. T. Quan, Xiaobo Yin, Peng Zhang, L.-M. Duan, Xiang Zhang
comments: updated to the version published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 163001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4772
abstract: Spontaneous symmetry breaking can lead to the formation of time crystals, as well as spatial crystals. Here we propose a space-time crystal of trapped ions and a method to realize it experimentally by confining ions in a ring-shaped trapping potential with a static magnetic field. The ions spontaneously form a spatial ring crystal due to Coulomb repulsion. This ion crystal can rotate persistently at the lowest quantum energy state in magnetic fields with fractional fluxes. The persistent rotation of trapped ions produces the temporal order, leading to the formation of a space-time crystal. We show that these space-time crystals are robust for direct experimental observation. We also study the effects of finite temperatures on the persistent rotation. The proposed space-time crystals of trapped ions provide a new dimension for exploring many-body physics and emerging properties of matter.

id: 1206.4806
title: Stationary states of a PT-symmetric two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Eva-Maria Graefe
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 444015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4806
abstract: The understanding of nonlinear PT-symmetric quantum systems, arising for example in the theory of Bose-Einstein condensates in PT-symmetric potentials, is widely based on numerical investigations, and little is known about generic features induced by the interplay of PT-symmetry and nonlinearity. To gain deeper insights it is important to have analytically solvable toy-models at hand. In the present paper the stationary states of a simple toy-model of a PT-symmetric system are investigated. The model can be interpreted as a simple description of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a PT-symmetric double well trap in a two-mode approximation. The eigenvalues and eigenstates of the system can be explicitly calculated in a straight forward manner; the resulting structures resemble those that have recently been found numerically for a more realistic PT-symmetric double delta potential. In addition, a continuation of the system is introduced that allows an interpretation in terms of a simple linear matrix model.

id: 1206.4829
title: Entanglement measures and the quantum to classical mapping
authors: J. Sirker
comments: 5 pages
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2012) P12012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4829
abstract: A quantum model can be mapped to a classical model in one higher dimension. Here we introduce a finite-temperature correlation measure based on a reduced density matrix rho_A obtained by cutting the classical system along the imaginary time (inverse temperature) axis. We show that the von-Neumann entropy S_ent of rho_A shares many properties with the mutual information, yet is based on a simpler geometry and is thus easier to calculate. For one-dimensional quantum systems in the thermodynamic limit we proof that S_ent is non-extensive for all temperatures T. For the integrable transverse Ising and XXZ models we demonstrate that the entanglement spectra of rho_A in the limit T-> 0 are described by free-fermion Hamiltonians and reduce to those of the regular reduced density matrix---obtained by a spatial instead of an imaginary-time cut---up to degeneracies.

id: 1206.4836
title: Deduction of an upper bound on the success probability of port-based teleportation from the no-cloning theorem and the no-signaling principle
authors: Dami¨¢n Pital¨²a-Garc¨ªa
comments: 5 pages, plus 2 of supplemental material. Expanded discussion in response to referee comments. Final version
journal: Physical Review A 87, 040303(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4836
abstract: In port-based teleportation, Alice teleports an unknown quantum state to one of N ports at Bob's site. Alice applies a measurement and sends Bob the outcome k. Bob only needs to select the kth port in order to obtain the state. We present a theorem in the spirit of the no-cloning theorem, which says that it is impossible to extract any information from an unknown quantum state if only a single copy of it is provided and if the state remains unchanged. We use this theorem and the no-signaling principle to prove an upper bound on the success probability of port-based teleportation.

id: 1206.4847
title: Quantum discord and entanglement in Heisenberg XXZ spin chain after quenches
authors: Jie Ren, Yin-Zhong Wu, Shi-Qun Zhu
comments: 4pages,4figures
journal: Chinese.Phys. Lett. Vol. 29, No. 6 (2012) 060305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4847
abstract: Using the adaptive time-dependent density-matrix renormalization group method, the dynamics of entanglement and quantum discord of a one-dimensional spin-1/2 XXZ chain is studied when anisotropic interaction quenches are applied at different temperatures. The dynamics of the quantum discord and pairwise entanglement between the nearest qubits shows that the entanglement and quantum discord will first oscillate and then approach to a constant value. The quantum discord can be used to predict the quantum phase transition, while the entanglement cannot.

id: 1206.4867
title: Optimal estimation of joint parameters in phase space
authors: M. G. Genoni, M. G. A. Paris, G. Adesso, H. Nha, P. L. Knight, M. S. Kim
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; v2: references added and sections added to the supplemental material; v3: minor changes (published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012107 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4867
abstract: We address the joint estimation of the two defining parameters of a displacement operation in phase space. In a measurement scheme based on a Gaussian probe field and two homodyne detectors, it is shown that both conjugated parameters can be measured below the standard quantum limit when the probe field is entangled. We derive the most informative Cram\'er-Rao bound, providing the theoretical benchmark on the estimation and observe that our scheme is nearly optimal for a wide parameter range characterizing the probe field. We discuss the role of the entanglement as well as the relation between our measurement strategy and the generalized uncertainty relations.

id: 1206.4872
title: Theoretical method for the study of the excited states of a system
authors: Ram¨®n Alain Miranda Quintana
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4872
abstract: A novel, exact, theoretical method for the study of the excited states of a system is presented. It is demonstrated how to transform the excited state problem of one Hamiltonian into the ground state problem of an auxiliary one. From this, a new exact density functional suitable for excited states is constructed. These results make the excited states of a system accessible through all ground state theoretical techniques.

id: 1206.4884
title: Towards particle creation in a microwave cylindrical cavity
authors: Wade Naylor
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures, RevTex4-1, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4884
abstract: We present for the first time numerical results for the particle (photon) creation rate of Dynamical Casimir effect (DCE) radiation in a resonant cylindrical microwave cavity. Based on recent experimental proposals, we model an irradiated semiconducting diaphragm (SCD) using a time dependent 'plasma sheet' where we show that the number of photons created for the TM_{011} mode is considerably enhanced even for low laser powers (of microjoule order). Conversely to the moving mirror case, we also show that the fundamental TM mode (TM_{010}) is not excited for an irradiated plasma sheet. We show that polarization (arising due to the back reaction of pair created photons with the plasma SCD) implies losses for TM, but not TE modes. However, we argue that these losses can be reduced by lowering the laser power and shortening the relaxation time. The results presented here lead support to the idea that TE and, in particular, TM modes are well suited to the detection of DCE radiation in a cylindrical cavity.

id: 1206.4886
title: Information trade-offs for optical quantum communication
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Patrick Hayden, Saikat Guha
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, see related, longer article at arXiv:1105.0119
journal: Physical Review Letters 108, 140501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4886
abstract: Recent work has precisely characterized the achievable trade-offs between three key information processing tasks---classical communication (generation or consumption), quantum communication (generation or consumption), and shared entanglement (distribution or consumption), measured in bits, qubits, and ebits per channel use, respectively. Slices and corner points of this three-dimensional region reduce to well-known protocols for quantum channels. A trade-off coding technique can attain any point in the region and can outperform time-sharing between the best-known protocols for accomplishing each information processing task by itself. Previously, the benefits of trade-off coding that had been found were too small to be of practical value (viz., for the dephasing and the universal cloning machine channels). In this letter, we demonstrate that the associated performance gains are in fact remarkably high for several physically relevant bosonic channels that model free-space / fiber-optic links, thermal-noise channels, and amplifiers. We show that significant performance gains from trade-off coding also apply when trading photon-number resources between transmitting public and private classical information simultaneously over secret-key-assisted bosonic channels.

id: 1206.4928
title: Energy as witness of multipartite entanglement in spin clusters
authors: F. Troiani, I. Siloi
comments: 
journal: PhysRevA 86, 032330 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4928
abstract: We derive energy minima for biseparable states in three- and four-spin systems, with Heisenberg Hamiltonian and s <= 5/2. These provide lower bounds for tripartite and quadripartite entanglement in chains and rings with larger spin number N. We demonstrate that the ground state of an $N$-spin Heisenberg chain is $N$-partite entangled, and compute the energy gap with respect to biseparable states for N <= 8.

id: 1206.4945
title: How to Transfer between Arbitrary $n$-Qubit Quantum States by Coherent Control and Simplest Switchable Noise on a Single Qubit
authors: V. Bergholm, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen
comments: v2 streamlined to 5 pages, 3 figures; extended technical details relegated to Supplement (8 pp 2 figs)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4945
abstract: We explore reachable sets of open $n$-qubit quantum systems, the coherent parts of which are under full unitary control and that have just one qubit whose Markovian noise amplitude can be modulated in time such as to provide an additional degree of incoherent control. In particular, adding bang-bang control of amplitude damping noise (non-unital) allows the dynamic system to act transitively on the entire set of density operators. This means one can transform any initial quantum state into any desired target state. Adding switchable bit-flip noise (unital), on the other hand, suffices to explore all states majorised by the initial state. We have extended our open-loop optimal control algorithm (DYNAMO package) by such degrees of incoherent control so that these unprecedented reachable sets can systematically be exploited in experiments. As illustrated for an ion trap experimental setting, open-loop control with noise switching can accomplish all state transfers one can get by the more complicated measurement-based closed-loop feedback schemes.

id: 1206.4949
title: Fundamental quantum optics experiments conceivable with satellites -- reaching relativistic distances and velocities
authors: David Rideout, Thomas Jennewein, Giovanni Amelino-Camelia, Tommaso F. Demarie, Brendon L. Higgins, Achim Kempf, Adrian Kent, Raymond Laflamme, Xian Ma, Robert B. Mann, Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Nicolas C. Menicucci, John Moffat, Christoph Simon, Rafael Sorkin, Lee Smolin, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 34 pages, 9 figures. Journal version, modified to respond to numerous suggestions
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29 224011 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Space Physics (physics.space-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4949
abstract: Physical theories are developed to describe phenomena in particular regimes, and generally are valid only within a limited range of scales. For example, general relativity provides an effective description of the Universe at large length scales, and has been tested from the cosmic scale down to distances as small as 10 meters. In contrast, quantum theory provides an effective description of physics at small length scales. Direct tests of quantum theory have been performed at the smallest probeable scales at the Large Hadron Collider, ${\sim} 10^{-20}$ meters, up to that of hundreds of kilometers. Yet, such tests fall short of the scales required to investigate potentially significant physics that arises at the intersection of quantum and relativistic regimes. We propose to push direct tests of quantum theory to larger and larger length scales, approaching that of the radius of curvature of spacetime, where we begin to probe the interaction between gravity and quantum phenomena. In particular, we review a wide variety of potential tests of fundamental physics that are conceivable with artificial satellites in Earth orbit and elsewhere in the solar system, and attempt to sketch the magnitudes of potentially observable effects. The tests have the potential to determine the applicability of quantum theory at larger length scales, eliminate various alternative physical theories, and place bounds on phenomenological models motivated by ideas about spacetime microstructure from quantum gravity. From a more pragmatic perspective, as quantum communication technologies such as quantum key distribution advance into Space towards large distances, some of the fundamental physical effects discussed here may need to be taken into account to make such schemes viable.

id: 1206.4956
title: Large Deviations, Central Limit and dynamical phase transitions in the atom maser
authors: Merlijn van Horssen, Madalin Guta
comments: 29 pages, 18 figures; added central limit theorem, clarified proof of main result, added new figures and references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4956
abstract: The theory of quantum jump trajectories provides a new framework for understanding dynamical phase transitions in open systems. A candidate for such transitions is the atom maser, which for certain parameters exhibits strong intermittency in the atom detection counts, and has a bistable stationary state. Although previous numerical results suggested that the "free energy" may not be a smooth function, we show that the atom detection counts satisfy a large deviations principle, and therefore we deal with a phase cross-over rather than a genuine phase transition. We argue however that the latter occurs in the limit of infinite pumping rate. As a corollary, we obtain the Central Limit Theorem for the counting process. The proof relies on the analysis of a certain deformed generator whose spectral bound is the limiting cumulant generating function. The latter is shown to be smooth, so that a large deviations principle holds by the Gartner-Ellis Theorem. One of the main ingredients is the Krein-Rutman Theorem which extends the Perron-Frobenius theory to a general class of positive compact semigroups.

id: 1206.4988
title: Simulating Quantum Fields with Cavity QED
authors: Sean Barrett, Klemens Hammerer, Sarah Harrison, Tracy E. Northup, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 4+3 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 090501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4988
abstract: As the realization of a fully operational quantum computer remains distant, quantum simulation, whereby one quantum system is engineered to simulate another, becomes a key goal of great practical importance. Here we report on a variational method exploiting the natural physics of cavity QED architectures to simulate strongly interacting quantum fields. Our scheme is broadly applicable to any architecture involving tunable and strongly nonlinear interactions with light; as an example, we demonstrate that existing cavity devices could simulate models of strongly interacting bosons. The scheme can be extended to simulate systems of entangled multicomponent fields, beyond the reach of existing classical simulation methods.

id: 1206.5075
title: A Unified Scientific Basis for Inference
authors: Inge S. Helland
comments: 98 pages; invited as a Springer Brief
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5075
abstract: Every experiment or observational study is made in a context. This context is being explicitly considered in this book. To do so, a conceptual variable is defined as any variable which can be defined by (a group of) researchers in a given setting. Such variables are classified. Sufficiency and ancillarity are defined conditionally on the context. The conditionality principle, the sufficiency principle and the likelihood principle are generalized, and a tentative rule for when one should not condition on an ancillary is motivated by examples. The theory is illustrated by the case where a nuisance parameter is a part of the context, and for this case, model reduction is motivated. Model reduction is discussed in general from the point of view that there exists a mathematical group acting upon the parameter space. It is shown that a natural extension of this discussion also gives a conceptual basis from which essential parts of the formalism of quantum mechanics can be derived. This implies an epistemological basis for quantum theory, a kind of basis that has also been advocated by part of the quantum foundation community in recent years. Born's celebrated formula is shown to follow from a focused version of the likelihood principle together with some reasonable assumptions on rationality connected to experimental evidence. Some statistical consequences of Born's formula are sketched. The questions around Bell's inequality are approached by using the conditionality principle for each observer. The objective aspects of the world are identified with the ideal inference results upon which all observers agree (epistemological objectivity).

id: 1206.5093
title: Transformations between symmetric sets of quantum states
authors: Vedran Dunjko, Erika Andersson
comments: 10 pages; 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5093
abstract: We investigate probabilistic transformations of quantum states from a `source' set to a `target' set of states. Such transforms have many applications. They can be used for tasks which include state-dependent cloning or quantum state discrimination, and as interfaces between systems whose information encodings are not related by a unitary transform, such as continuous-variable systems and finite-dimensional systems. In a probabilistic transform, information may be lost or leaked, and we explain the concepts of leak and redundancy. Following this, we show how the analysis of probabilistic transforms significantly simplifies for symmetric source and target sets of states. In particular, we give a simple linear program which solves the task of finding optimal transforms, and a method of characterizing the introduced leak and redundancy in information-theoretic terms. Using the developed techniques, we analyse a class of transforms which convert coherent states with information encoded in their relative phase to symmetric qubit states. Each of these sets of states on their own appears in many well studied quantum information protocols. Finally, we suggest an asymptotic realization based on quantum scissors.

id: 1206.5100
title: PT phase transition in multidimensional quantum systems
authors: Carl M. Bender, David J. Weir
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 425303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5100
abstract: Non-Hermitian PT-symmetric quantum-mechanical Hamiltonians generally exhibit a phase transition that separates two parametric regions, (i) a region of unbroken PT symmetry in which the eigenvalues are all real, and (ii) a region of broken PT symmetry in which some of the eigenvalues are complex. This transition has recently been observed experimentally in a variety of physical systems. Until now, theoretical studies of the PT phase transition have generally been limited to one-dimensional models. Here, four nontrivial coupled PT-symmetric Hamiltonians, $H=p^2/2+x^2/2+q^2/2+y^2/2+igx^2y$, $H=p^2/2+x^2/2+q^2/2+y^2+igx^2y$, $H=p^2/2+x^2/2+q^2/2+y^2/2+r^2/2+z^2/2+igxyz$, and $H=p^2/2+x^2/2+q^2/2+y^2+r^2/2+3z^2/2+igxyz$ are examined. Based on extensive numerical studies, this paper conjectures that all four models exhibit a phase transition. The transitions are found to occur at $g\approx 0.1$, $g\approx 0.04$, $g\approx 0.1$, and $g\approx 0.05$. These results suggest that the PT phase transition is a robust phenomenon not limited to systems having one degree of freedom.

id: 1206.5115
title: Beyond Bell's Theorem: Correlation Scenarios
authors: Tobias Fritz
comments: new title and abstract, introduction updated, main text and results the same. To appear in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 14 103001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5115
abstract: Bell's Theorem witnesses that the predictions of quantum theory cannot be reproduced by theories of local hidden variables in which observers can choose their measurements independently of the source. Working out an idea of Branciard, Rosset, Gisin and Pironio, we consider scenarios which feature several sources, but no choice of measurement for the observers. Every Bell scenario can be mapped into such a \emph{correlation scenario}, and Bell's Theorem then discards those local hidden variable theories in which the sources are independent. However, most correlation scenarios do not arise from Bell scenarios, and we describe examples of (quantum) nonlocality in some of these scenarios, while posing many open problems along the way. Some of our scenarios have been considered before by mathematicians in the context of causal inference.

id: 1206.5131
title: Finite-size scaling in the quantum phase transition of the open-system Dicke-model
authors: G. Konya, D. Nagy, G. Szirmai, P. Domokos
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013641 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5131
abstract: Laser-driven Bose-Einstein condensate of ultracold atoms loaded into a lossy high-finesse optical resonator exhibits critical behavior and, in the thermodynamic limit, a phase transition between stationary states of different symmetries. The system realizes an open-system variant of the celebrated Dicke-model. We study the transition for a finite number of atoms by means of a Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov method adapted to a damped-driven open system. The finite-size scaling exponents are determined and a clear distinction between the non-equilibrium and the equilibrium quantum criticality is found.

id: 1206.5145
title: Tomography and state reconstruction with superconducting single-photon detectors
authors: Jelmer J. Renema, Giulia Frucci, Michiel J. A. de Dood, Richard Gill, Andrea Fiore, Martin P. van Exter
comments: revision of intro compared to V1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062113 (2012) [6 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5145
abstract: We perform quantum state reconstruction of coherent and thermal states with a detector which has an enhanced multiphoton response. The detector is based on superconducting nanowires, where the bias current sets the dependence of the click probability on the photon number; this bias current is used as tuning parameter in the state reconstruction. The nonlinear response makes our nanowire-based detector superior to the linear detectors that are conventionally used for quantum state reconstruction.

id: 1206.5189
title: Re-assessment of the state of Schroedinger's cat, final version
authors: Art Hobson
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5189
abstract: The quantum state of Schroedinger's cat is usually incorrectly described as a superposition of "dead" and "alive," despite an argument by Rinner and Werner that, locally, the cat should be considered to be in a mixture of non-superposed states. Here, it is rigorously proven that the cat is not in a superposition. This is central to the measurement problem. Nonlocal two-photon interferometry experiments throw further light on the measurement state by probing the effect of a variable phase factor inserted between its superposed terms. These experiments demonstrate that both subsystems really are in locally mixed states rather than superpositions, and they tell us what the measurement state superposition actually superposes. They show that measurement transfers the coherence in Schroedinger's nuclear superposition neither to the cat nor to the nucleus, but only to the correlations between them. This explains the collapse process--but not its subsequent irreversible dissipation--within the context of unitary dynamics with no need for external entities such as the environment, a human mind, other worlds, or collapse mechanisms.

id: 1206.5205
title: Quantum Information Processing and Relativistic Quantum Fields
authors: Dionigi M. T. Benincasa, Leron Borsten, Michel Buck, Fay Dowker
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures. Improved abstract and discussion of 'ideal' measurements. References to previous work added
journal: Dionigi M T Benincasa et al 2014 Class. Quantum Grav. 31 075007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5205
abstract: It is shown that an ideal measurement of a one-particle wave packet state of a relativistic quantum field in Minkowski spacetime enables superluminal signalling. The result holds for a measurement that takes place over an intervention region in spacetime whose extent in time in some frame is longer than the light-crossing time of the packet in that frame. Moreover, these results are shown to apply not only to ideal measurements but also to unitary transformations that rotate two orthogonal one-particle states into each other. In light of these observations, possible restrictions on the allowed types of intervention are considered. A more physical approach to such questions is to construct explicit models of the interventions as interactions between the field and other quantum systems such as detectors. The prototypical Unruh-DeWitt detector couples to the field operator itself and so most likely respects relativistic causality. On the other hand, detector models which couple to a finite set of frequencies of field modes are shown to lead to superluminal signalling. Such detectors do, however, provide successful phenomenological models of atom-qubits interacting with quantum fields in a cavity but are valid only on time scales many orders of magnitude larger than the light-crossing time of the cavity.

id: 1206.5206
title: Quantum to classical limit of open systems
authors: Guido Bellomo, Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5206
abstract: We present a complete review of the quantum-to-classical limit of open systems by means of the theory of decoherence and the use of the Weyl-Wigner-Moyal (WWM) transformation. We show that the analytical extension of the Hamiltonian provides a set of poles that can be used to (a) explain the non-unitary evolution of the relevant system and (b) completely define the set of preferred states that constitute the mixture into which the system decoheres: the Moving Preferred Basis. Moreover, we show that the WWM of these states are the best candidates to obtain the trajectories in the classical phase-space.

id: 1206.5236
title: Fast and efficient exact synthesis of single qubit unitaries generated by Clifford and T gates
authors: Vadym Kliuchnikov, Dmitri Maslov, Michele Mosca
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures, added the proof of T-optimality of the circuits synthesized by Algorithm 1
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 13, No. 7,8 pp. 607-630 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5236
abstract: In this paper, we show the equivalence of the set of unitaries computable by the circuits over the Clifford and T library and the set of unitaries over the ring $\mathbb{Z}[\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}},i]$, in the single-qubit case. We report an efficient synthesis algorithm, with an exact optimality guarantee on the number of Hadamard and T gates used. We conjecture that the equivalence of the sets of unitaries implementable by circuits over the Clifford and T library and unitaries over the ring $\mathbb{Z}[\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}},i]$ holds in the $n$-qubit case.

id: 1206.5297
title: Quantum theory of two-photon interference
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Bo-Jun Zhang, Xiao-Jing Liu, Hong Li, Si-Qi Zhang, Jing Wang, Yi-Heng Wu, Jing-Wu Li
comments: arXiv admin note: substanital text overlap with arXiv:1011.3593, and with arXiv:quant-ph/0408001, arXiv:quant-ph/0103035 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5297
abstract: In this paper, we study two-photon interference with the approach of photon quantum theory, with specific attention to the two-photon interference experiment carried out by Milena D'Angelo et al. (Phys. Rev. Lett 87:013602, 2001). We find the theoretical result is accordance with experiment data.

id: 1206.5323
title: Dynamics Underlying the Gaussian Distribution of the Classical Harmonic Oscillator in Zero-Point Radiation
authors: Wayne Cheng-Wei Huang, Herman Batelaan
comments: 20 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5323
abstract: In the past decades, Random Electrodynamics (also called Stochastic Electrodynamics) has been used to study the classical harmonic oscillator immersed in the classical electromagnetic zero-point radiation. Random Electrodynamics (RED) predicts an identical probability distribution for the harmonic oscillator compared to the quantum mechanical prediction for the ground state. Moreover, the Heisenberg minimum uncertainty relation is also recovered with RED. To understand the dynamics that gives rise to this probability distribution, we perform an RED simulation and follow the motion of the oscillator. This simulation provides insight in the relation between the striking different double-peak probability distribution of the classical harmonic oscillator and the Gaussian probability distribution of the RED harmonic oscillator. A main objective for RED research is to establish to what extent the results of quantum mechanics can be obtained. The present simulation method can be applied to other physical systems, and it may assist in evaluating the validity range of RED.

id: 1206.5346
title: Foundations and Measures of Quantum Non-Markovianity
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 31 pages, to be published in the special issue: Loss of coherence and memory effects in quantum dynamics, Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 154001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5346
abstract: The basic features of the dynamics of open quantum systems, such as the dissipation of energy, the decay of coherences, the relaxation to an equilibrium or non-equilibrium stationary state, and the transport of excitations in complex structures are of central importance in many applications of quantum mechanics. The theoretical description, analysis and control of non-Markovian quantum processes play an important role in this context. While in a Markovian process an open system irretrievably loses information to its surroundings, non-Markovian processes feature a flow of information from the environment back to the open system, which implies the presence of memory effects and represents the key property of non-Markovian quantum behavior. Here, we review recent ideas developing a general mathematical definition for non-Markoviantiy in the quantum regime and a measure for the degree of memory effects in the dynamics of open systems which are based on the exchange of information between system and environment. We further study the dynamical effects induced by the presence of system-environment correlations in the total initial state and design suitable methods to detect such correlations through local measurements on the open system.

id: 1206.5362
title: Novel Aharonov-Bohm-like effect: Detectability of the vector potential in a solenoidal configuration with a ferromagnetic core covered by superconducting lead, and surrounded by a thin cylindrical shell of aluminum
authors: R. Y. Chiao
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5362
abstract: The flux as measured by the Josephson effect in a SQUID-like configuration with a ferromagnetic core inserted into its center, is shown to be sensitive to the vector potential arising from the central ferromagnetic core, even when the core is covered with a superconducting material that prevents any magnetic field lines from ever reaching the perimeter of the SQUID-like configuration. This leads to a macroscopic, Aharonov-Bohm-like effect that is observable in an asymmetric hysteresis loop in the response of the SQUID-like configuration to an externally applied magnetic field.

id: 1206.5407
title: Modeling quantum noise for efficient testing of fault-tolerant circuits
authors: Easwar Magesan, Daniel Puzzuoli, Christopher E. Granade, David G. Cory
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012324 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5407
abstract: Understanding fault-tolerant properties of quantum circuits is important for the design of large-scale quantum information processors. In particular, simulating properties of encoded circuits is a crucial tool for investigating the relationships between the noise model, encoding scheme, and threshold value. For general circuits and noise models, these simulations quickly become intractable in the size of the encoded circuit. We introduce methods for approximating a noise process by one which allows for efficient Monte Carlo simulation of properties of encoded circuits. The approximations are as close to the original process as possible without overestimating their ability to preserve quantum information, a key property for obtaining more honest estimates of threshold values. We numerically illustrate the method with various physically relevant noise models.

id: 1206.5456
title: Distributed entanglement induced by dissipative bosonic media
authors: Li-Tuo Shen, Xin-Yu Chen, Zhen-Biao Yang, Huai-Zhi Wu, Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: to appear in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhysics Letters 99: 20003(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5456
abstract: We describe a scheme with analytic result that allows to generate steady-state entanglement for two atoms over a dissipative bosonic medium. The resonant coupling between the mediating bosonic mode and cavity modes produces three collective atomic decay channels. This dissipative dynamics, together with the unitary process induced by classical microwave fields, drives the two atoms to the symmetric or asymmetric entangled steady state conditional upon the choice of the phases of the microwave fields. The effects on the steady-state entanglement of off-resonance mediating bosonic modes are analyzed. The entanglement can be obtained with high fidelity regardless of the initial state and there is a linear relation in the scaling of the fidelity with the cooperativity parameter. The fidelity is insensitive to the fluctuation of the Rabi frequencies of the classical driving fields.

id: 1206.5457
title: Quantum electrodynamics of a free particle near dispersive dielectric or conducting boundaries
authors: Robert Bennett, Claudia Eberlein
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062505 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5457
abstract: Quantum electrodynamics near a boundary is investigated by considering the inertial mass shift of an electron near a dielectric or conducting surface. We show that in all tractable cases the shift can be written in terms of integrals over the TE and TM reflection coefficients associated with the surface, in analogy to the Lifshitz formula for the Casimir effect. We discuss the applications and potential limitations of this formula, and provide exact results for several models of the surface.

id: 1206.5485
title: Open timelike curves violate Heisenberg's uncertainty principle
authors: J.L. Pienaar, C.R. Myers, T.C. Ralph
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5485
abstract: Toy models for quantum evolution in the presence of closed timelike curves (CTCs) have gained attention in the recent literature due to the strange effects they predict. The circuits that give rise to these effects appear quite abstract and contrived, as they require non-trivial interactions between the future and past which lead to infinitely recursive equations. We consider the special case in which there is no interaction inside the CTC, referred to as an open timelike curve (OTC), for which the only local effect is to increase the time elapsed by a clock carried by the system. Remarkably, circuits with access to OTCs are shown to violate Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, allowing perfect state discrimination and perfect cloning of coherent states. The model is extended to wave-packets and smoothly recovers standard quantum mechanics in an appropriate physical limit. The analogy with general relativistic time-dilation suggests that OTCs provide a novel alternative to existing proposals for the behaviour of quantum systems under gravity.

id: 1206.5591
title: Ultra-stable long distance optical frequency distribution using the Internet fiber network
authors: Olivier Lopez, Adil Haboucha, Bruno Chanteau, Christian Chardonnet, Anne Amy-Klein, Giorgio Santarelli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5591
abstract: We report an optical link of 540 km for ultrastable frequency distribution over the Internet fiber network. The stable frequency optical signal is processed enabling uninterrupted propagation on both directions. The robustness and the performance of the link are enhanced by a cost effective fully automated optoelectronic station. This device is able to coherently regenerate the return optical signal with a heterodyne optical phase locking of a low noise laser diode. Moreover the incoming signal polarization variation are tracked and processed in order to maintain beat note amplitudes within the operation range. Stable fibered optical interferometer enables optical detection of the link round trip phase signal. The phase-noise compensated link shows a fractional frequency instability in 10 Hz bandwidth of 5x10-15 at one second measurement time and 2x10-19 at 30 000 s. This work is a significant step towards a sustainable wide area ultrastable optical frequency distribution and comparison network.

id: 1206.5630
title: Separable states and the SPA of a positive map
authors: Erling Stormer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5630
abstract: We introduce a nessecary condition for a state to be separable and apply this condition to the SPA of an optimal ositive map and give a proof of the fact that the SPA need not be the density ooperator for a separable state.

id: 1206.5655
title: Path Selection for Quantum Repeater Networks
authors: Rodney Van Meter, Takahiko Satoh, Thaddeus D. Ladd, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Networking Science, December 2013, Volume 3, Issue 1-4, pp 82-95
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5655
abstract: Quantum networks will support long-distance quantum key distribution (QKD) and distributed quantum computation, and are an active area of both experimental and theoretical research. Here, we present an analysis of topologically complex networks of quantum repeaters composed of heterogeneous links. Quantum networks have fundamental behavioral differences from classical networks; the delicacy of quantum states makes a practical path selection algorithm imperative, but classical notions of resource utilization are not directly applicable, rendering known path selection mechanisms inadequate. To adapt Dijkstra's algorithm for quantum repeater networks that generate entangled Bell pairs, we quantify the key differences and define a link cost metric, seconds per Bell pair of a particular fidelity, where a single Bell pair is the resource consumed to perform one quantum teleportation. Simulations that include both the physical interactions and the extensive classical messaging confirm that Dijkstra's algorithm works well in a quantum context. Simulating about three hundred heterogeneous paths, comparing our path cost and the total work along the path gives a coefficient of determination of 0.88 or better.

id: 1206.5664
title: Efficient W state entanglement concentration using quantum-dot and optical microcavities
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Lan Zhou, Chuan Wang, Sheng-Mei Zhao
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5664
abstract: We present an entanglement concentration protocols (ECPs) for less-entangled W state with quantum-dot and microcavity coupled system. The present protocol uses the quantum nondemolition measurement on the spin parity to construct the parity check gate. Different from other ECPs, this less-entangled W state with quantum-dot and microcavity coupled system can be concentrated with the help of some single photons. The whole protocol can be repeated to get a higher success probability. It may be useful in current quantum information processing.

id: 1206.5684
title: Nonlocal appearance of a macroscopic angular momentum
authors: G. S. Paraoanu, R. Healey
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 51, 1783 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5684
abstract: We discuss a type of measurement in which a macroscopically large angular momentum (spin) is "created" nonlocally by the measurement of just a few atoms from a double Fock state. This procedure apparently leads to a blatant nonconservation of a macroscopic variable - the local angular momentum. We argue that while this gedankenexperiment provides a striking illustration of several counter-intuitive features of quantum mechanics, it does not imply a non-local violation of the conservation of angular momentum.

id: 1206.5691
title: Superactivation of Quantum Channels is Limited by the Quantum Relative Entropy Function
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi, Sandor Imre
comments: 14 pages, Journal-ref: Quantum Information Processing (accepted)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5691
abstract: In this work we prove that the possibility of superactivation of quantum channel capacities is determined by the mathematical properties of the quantum relative entropy function. Before our work this fundamental and purely mathematical connection between the quantum relative entropy function and the superactivation effect was completely unrevealed. We demonstrate the results for the quantum capacity; however the proposed theorems and connections hold for all other channel capacities of quantum channels for which the superactivation is possible.

id: 1206.5693
title: Quasi-Superactivation of Classical Capacity of Zero-Capacity Quantum Channels
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi, Sandor Imre
comments: 52 pages, 6 figures, Journal-ref: Journal of Modern Optics, published version (minor typo fixed)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5693
abstract: One of the most surprising recent results in quantum Shannon theory is the superactivation of the quantum capacity of a quantum channel. This phenomenon has its roots in the extreme violation of additivity of the channel capacity and enables to reliably transmit quantum information over zero-capacity quantum channels. In this work we demonstrate a similar effect for the classical capacity of a quantum channel which previously was thought to be impossible. We show that a nonzero classical capacity can be achieved for all zero-capacity quantum channels and it only requires the assistance of an elementary photon-atom interaction process - the stimulated emission.

id: 1206.5699
title: Work and its fluctuations in a driven quantum system
authors: Paolo Solinas, Dmitri V. Averin, Jukka P. Pekola
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 060508(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5699
abstract: We analyze work done on a quantum system driven by a control field. The average work depends on the whole dynamics of the system, and is obtained as the integral of the average power operator. As a specific example we focus on a superconducting Cooper-pair box forming a two-level system. We obtain expressions for the average work and work distribution in a closed system, and discuss control field and environment contributions to the average work for an open system.

id: 1206.5702
title: How uncertainty enables non-classical dynamics
authors: Oscar C. O. Dahlsten, Andrew J. P. Garner, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages + 4 page technical supplement, 2 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 5:4592 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5702
abstract: The uncertainty principle limits quantum states such that when one observable takes predictable values there must be some other mutually unbiased observables which take uniformly random values. We show that this restrictive condition plays a positive role as the enabler of non-classical dynamics in an interferometer. First we note that instantaneous action at a distance between different paths of an interferometer should not be possible. We show that for general probabilistic theories this heavily curtails the non-classical dynamics. We prove that there is a trade-off with the uncertainty principle, that allows theories to evade this restriction. On one extreme, non-classical theories with maximal certainty have their non-classical dynamics absolutely restricted to only the identity operation. On the other extreme, quantum theory minimises certainty in return for maximal non-classical dynamics.

id: 1206.5715
title: Coherent states and the classical-quantum limit considered from the point of view of entanglement
authors: Thomas Durt, Vincent Debierre
comments: This is the definitive version of a paper entitled The classical-quantum limit considered from the point of view of entanglement: a survey (author T. Durt). The older version has been replaced by the definitive one
journal: International Journal 1 of Modern Physics B Vol. 26, No. 00 (2012) 1245014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5715
abstract: Three paradigms commonly used in classical, pre-quantum physics to describe particles (that is: the material point, the test-particle and the diluted particle (droplet model)) can be identified as limit-cases of a quantum regime in which pairs of particles interact without getting entangled with each other. This entanglement-free regime also provides a simplified model of what is called in the decoherence approach "islands of classicality", that is, preferred bases that would be selected through evolution by a Darwinist mechanism that aims at optimising information. We show how, under very general conditions, coherent states are natural candidates for classical pointer states. This occurs essentially because, when a (supposedly bosonic) system coherently exchanges only one quantum at a time with the (supposedly bosonic) environment, coherent states of the system do not get entangled with the environment, due to the bosonic symmetry.

id: 1206.5734
title: Witnessing trustworthy single-photon entanglement with local homodyne measurements
authors: Olivier Morin, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Melvyn Ho, Pavel Sekatski, Virginia D'Auria, Nicolas Gisin, Julien Laurat, Nicolas Sangouard
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 130401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5734
abstract: Single-photon entangled states, i.e. states describing two optical paths sharing a single photon, constitute the simplest form of entanglement. Yet they provide a valuable resource in quantum information science. Specifically, they lie at the heart of quantum networks, as they can be used for quantum teleportation, swapped and purified with linear optics. The main drawback of such entanglement is the difficulty in measuring it. Here, we present and experimentally test an entanglement witness allowing one not only to say whether a given state is path-entangled but also that entanglement lies in the subspace where the optical paths are each filled with one photon at most, i.e. refers to single-photon entanglement. It uses local homodyning only and relies on no assumption about the Hilbert space dimension of the measured system. Our work provides a simple and trustful method for verifying the proper functioning of future quantum networks.

id: 1206.5822
title: A framework for bounding nonlocality of state discrimination
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Debbie Leung, Laura Mancinska, Maris Ozols
comments: 33 pages, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics 323, 1121-1153 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5822
abstract: We consider the class of protocols that can be implemented by local quantum operations and classical communication (LOCC) between two parties. In particular, we focus on the task of discriminating a known set of quantum states by LOCC. Building on the work in the paper "Quantum nonlocality without entanglement" [BDF+99], we provide a framework for bounding the amount of nonlocality in a given set of bipartite quantum states in terms of a lower bound on the probability of error in any LOCC discrimination protocol. We apply our framework to an orthonormal product basis known as the domino states and obtain an alternative and simplified proof that quantifies its nonlocality. We generalize this result for similar bases in larger dimensions, as well as the "rotated" domino states, resolving a long-standing open question [BDF+99].

id: 1206.5823
title: Geometry of Discrete Quantum Computing
authors: Andrew J. Hanson, Gerardo Ortiz, Amr Sabry, Yu-Tsung Tai
comments: 24 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 185301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5823
abstract: Conventional quantum computing entails a geometry based on the description of an n-qubit state using 2^{n} infinite precision complex numbers denoting a vector in a Hilbert space. Such numbers are in general uncomputable using any real-world resources, and, if we have the idea of physical law as some kind of computational algorithm of the universe, we would be compelled to alter our descriptions of physics to be consistent with computable numbers. Our purpose here is to examine the geometric implications of using finite fields Fp and finite complexified fields Fp^2 (based on primes p congruent to 3 mod{4}) as the basis for computations in a theory of discrete quantum computing, which would therefore become a computable theory. Because the states of a discrete n-qubit system are in principle enumerable, we are able to determine the proportions of entangled and unentangled states. In particular, we extend the Hopf fibration that defines the irreducible state space of conventional continuous n-qubit theories (which is the complex projective space CP{2^{n}-1}) to an analogous discrete geometry in which the Hopf circle for any n is found to be a discrete set of p+1 points. The tally of unit-length n-qubit states is given, and reduced via the generalized Hopf fibration to DCP{2^{n}-1}, the discrete analog of the complex projective space, which has p^{2^{n}-1} (p-1)\prod_{k=1}^{n-1} (p^{2^{k}}+1) irreducible states. Using a measure of entanglement, the purity, we explore the entanglement features of discrete quantum states and find that the n-qubit states based on the complexified field Fp^2 have p^{n} (p-1)^{n} unentangled states (the product of the tally for a single qubit) with purity 1, and they have p^{n+1}(p-1)(p+1)^{n-1} maximally entangled states with purity zero.

id: 1206.5826
title: Overcoming phonon-induced dephasing for indistinguishable photon sources
authors: Tom Close, Erik M. Gauger, Brendon W. Lovett
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14 113004 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5826
abstract: Reliable single photon sources constitute the basis of schemes for quantum communication and measurement based quantum computing. Solid state single photon sources based on quantum dots are convenient and versatile but the electronic transitions that generate the photons are subject to interactions with lattice vibrations. Using a microscopic model of electron-phonon interactions and a quantum master equation, we here examine phonon-induced decoherence and assess its impact on the rate of production, and indistinguishability, of single photons emitted from an optically driven quantum dot system. We find that, above a certain threshold of desired indistinguishability, it is possible to mitigate the deleterious effects of phonons by exploiting a three-level Raman process for photon production.

id: 1206.5960
title: Bounds for Hamiltonians with arbitrary kinetic parts
authors: Claude Semay
comments: Improved version with new refernces
journal: Results in Physics 2 (2012) 114-117
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5960
abstract: A method is presented to compute approximate solutions for eigenequations in quantum mechanics with an arbitrary kinetic part. In some cases, the approximate eigenvalues can be analytically determined and they can be lower or upper bounds. A semiclassical interpretation of the generic formula obtained for the eigenvalues supports a new definition of the effective particle mass used in solid state physics. An analytical toy model with a Gaussian dependence in the momentum is studied in order to check the validity of the method.

id: 1206.5980
title: Information Geometric Superactivation of Asymptotic Quantum Capacity and Classical Zero-Error Capacity of Zero-Capacity Quantum Channels
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, Budapest University of Technology and Economics, 2013, 392 pages, 4 tables, 128 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5980
abstract: The superactivation of zero-capacity quantum channels makes it possible to use two zero-capacity quantum channels with a positive joint capacity at the output. Currently, we have no theoretical background for describing all possible combinations of superactive zero-capacity channels; hence, there may be many other possible combinations. In this PhD Thesis I provide an algorithmic solution to the problem of superactivation and prove that superactivation effect is rooted in information geometric issues.

id: 1206.5996
title: Quantum-assisted and Quantum-based Solutions in Wireless Systems
authors: Sandor Imre, Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: Review paper, published in the Special Centennial Celebration Issue of Proceedings of the IEEE, 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Proceedings of the IEEE, Volume: 100, Issue: Special Centennial Issue, 2012, pp. 1853-1888
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5996
abstract: In wireless systems there is always a trade-off between reducing the transmit power and mitigating the resultant signal-degradation imposed by the transmit-power reduction with the aid of sophisticated receiver algorithms, when considering the total energy consumption. Quantum-assisted wireless communications exploits the extra computing power offered by quantum mechanics based architectures. This paper summarizes some recent results in quantum computing and the corresponding application areas in wireless communications.

id: 1206.6000
title: Quantum catastrophes: a case study
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 23 pp
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 444036
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6000
abstract: The bound-state spectrum of a Hamiltonian H is assumed real in a non-empty domain D of physical values of parameters. This means that for these parameters, H may be called crypto-Hermitian, i.e., made Hermitian via an {\it ad hoc} choice of the inner product in the physical Hilbert space of quantum bound states (i.e., via an {\it ad hoc} construction of the so called metric). The name of quantum catastrophe is then assigned to the N-tuple-exceptional-point crossing, i.e., to the scenario in which we leave domain D along such a path that at the boundary of D, an N-plet of bound state energies degenerates and, subsequently, complexifies. At any fixed $N \geq 2$, this process is simulated via an N by N benchmark effective matrix Hamiltonian H. Finally, it is being assigned such a closed-form metric which is made unique via an N-extrapolation-friendliness requirement.

id: 1206.6024
title: Unscrambling the Quantum Omelette
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, presented at the "LARSIM/QuPa workshop," Paris, June 28-29, 2012, at "Quantum Structures Cagliari 2012," Cagliari, Sardinia, July 23-27, 2012, as well as at "New Directions in the Foundations of Physics 2013," Washington, D.C., May 10-12, 2013; completely rewritten
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics 86(6), 062109 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6024
abstract: Based on recent theorems about quantum value-indefiniteness it is conjectured that many issues of "Born's quantum mechanics" can be overcome by supposing that only a single pure state exists; and that the quantum evolution permutes this state.

id: 1206.6048
title: Quantum Circuits for Measuring Levin-Wen Operators
authors: N. E. Bonesteel, D. P. DiVincenzo
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 165113 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6048
abstract: We construct quantum circuits for measuring the commuting set of vertex and plaquette operators that appear in the Levin-Wen model for doubled Fibonacci anyons. Such measurements can be viewed as syndrome measurements for the quantum error-correcting code defined by the ground states of this model (the Fibonacci code). We quantify the complexity of these circuits with gate counts using different universal gate sets and find these measurements become significantly easier to perform if n-qubit Toffoli gates with n = 3,4 and 5 can be carried out directly. In addition to measurement circuits, we construct simplified quantum circuits requiring only a few qubits that can be used to verify that certain self-consistency conditions, including the pentagon equation, are satisfied by the Fibonacci code.

id: 1206.6054
title: Degree of Complementarity Determines the Nonlocality in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Manik Banik, M. D. Rajjak Gazi, Sibasish Ghosh, Guruprasad Kar
comments: Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052125 (2013) [5 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6054
abstract: Complementarity principle is one of the central concepts in quantum mechanics which restricts joint measurement for certain observables. Of course, later development shows that joint measurement could be possible for such observables with the introduction of a certain degree of unsharpness or fuzziness in the measurement. In this paper, we show that the optimal degree of unsharpness, which guarantees the joint measurement of all possible pairs of dichotomic observables, determines the degree of nonlocality in quantum mechanics as well as in more general no-signaling theories.

id: 1206.6061
title: Non-equilibrium transition from dissipative quantum walk to classical random walk
authors: Marco Nizama, Manuel O. C¨¢ceres
comments: Submitted for publication. 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6061
abstract: We have investigated the time-evolution of a free particle in interaction with a phonon thermal bath, using the tight-binding approach. A dissipative quantum walk can be defined and many important non-equilibrium decoherence properties can be investigated analytically. The non-equilibrium statistics of a pure initial state have been studied. Our theoretical results indicate that the evolving wave-packet shows the suppression of Anderson's boundaries (ballistic peaks) by the presence of dissipation. Many important relaxation properties can be studied quantitatively, such as von Neumann's entropy and quantum purity. In addition, we have studied Wigner's function. The time-dependent behavior of the quantum entanglement between a free particle -in the lattice- and the phonon bath has been characterized analytically. This result strongly suggests the non-trivial time-dependence of the off-diagonal elements of the reduced density matrix of the system. We have established a connection between the quantum decoherence and the dissipative parameter arising from interaction with the phonon bath. The time-dependent behavior of quantum correlations has also been pointed out, showing continuous transition from quantum random walk to classical random walk, when dissipation increases.

id: 1206.6087
title: Long-time Low-latency Quantum Memory by Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Kaveh Khodjasteh, Jarrah Sastrawan, David Hayes, Todd J. Green, Michael J. Biercuk, Lorenza Viola
comments: abstract and authors list fixed
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2045 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6087
abstract: Quantum memory is a central component for quantum information processing devices, and will be required to provide high-fidelity storage of arbitrary states, long storage times and small access latencies. Despite growing interest in applying physical-layer error-suppression strategies to boost fidelities, it has not previously been possible to meet such competing demands with a single approach. Here we use an experimentally validated theoretical framework to identify periodic repetition of a high-order dynamical decoupling sequence as a systematic strategy to meet these challenges. We provide analytic bounds-validated by numerical calculations-on the characteristics of the relevant control sequences and show that a "stroboscopic saturation" of coherence, or coherence plateau, can be engineered, even in the presence of experimental imperfection. This permits high-fidelity storage for times that can be exceptionally long, meaning that our device-independent results should prove instrumental in producing practically useful quantum technologies.

id: 1206.6095
title: Psychophysical Interpretation of Quantum theory
authors: Rajat K Pradhan
comments: published version
journal: Neuroquantology, vol. 10, (4), 629-645, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6095
abstract: It is shown that the formalism of quantum theory naturally incorporates the psychophysical parallelism and thereby interprets itself, if the subjective aspects are taken as equal partners alongside the objective aspects as determinants of Reality as a Whole. The inevitable interplay of the subject (observer) and the object (observed) in making up Reality is brought out succinctly through a comprehensive psychophysical interpretation which includes in its bosom the truths of many of the major interpretations proposed so far as essential ingredients. At the heart of this novel approach lies the interpretation of the complex conjugate quantities such as the conjugate wave function {\Psi}*(r, t), the bra vector <{\Psi}|, and the adjoint operator A{\dag} etc. as representing the subjective counterparts of the corresponding objective aspects represented by the wave function {\Psi}(r, t), the ket vector |{\Psi}>, and the observable A etc. respectively. This brings out the psycho-physical parallelism lying hidden in the quantum mechanical formalism in a quite straightforward manner. The measurement process is shown to be a two-step process comprising objective interaction through the retarded waves and subjective observation leading to rise of knowledge through the advanced waves.

id: 1206.6126
title: Quantum algorithms for problems in number theory, algebraic geometry, and group theory
authors: Wim van Dam, Yoshitaka Sasaki
comments: 20 pages, lecture notes for 2010 Summer School on Diversities in Quantum Computation/Information at Kinki University
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6126
abstract: Quantum computers can execute algorithms that sometimes dramatically outperform classical computation. Undoubtedly the best-known example of this is Shor's discovery of an efficient quantum algorithm for factoring integers, whereas the same problem appears to be intractable on classical computers. Understanding what other computational problems can be solved significantly faster using quantum algorithms is one of the major challenges in the theory of quantum computation, and such algorithms motivate the formidable task of building a large-scale quantum computer. This article will review the current state of quantum algorithms, focusing on algorithms for problems with an algebraic flavor that achieve an apparent superpolynomial speedup over classical computation.

id: 1206.6150
title: Quantum Key Distribution in the Classical Authenticated Key Exchange Framework
authors: Michele Mosca, Douglas Stebila, Berkant Ustaoglu
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6150
abstract: Key establishment is a crucial primitive for building secure channels: in a multi-party setting, it allows two parties using only public authenticated communication to establish a secret session key which can be used to encrypt messages. But if the session key is compromised, the confidentiality of encrypted messages is typically compromised as well. Without quantum mechanics, key establishment can only be done under the assumption that some computational problem is hard. Since digital communication can be easily eavesdropped and recorded, it is important to consider the secrecy of information anticipating future algorithmic and computational discoveries which could break the secrecy of past keys, violating the secrecy of the confidential channel. Quantum key distribution (QKD) can be used generate secret keys that are secure against any future algorithmic or computational improvements. QKD protocols still require authentication of classical communication, however, which is most easily achieved using computationally secure digital signature schemes. It is generally considered folklore that QKD when used with computationally secure authentication is still secure against an unbounded adversary, provided the adversary did not break the authentication during the run of the protocol. We describe a security model for quantum key distribution based on traditional classical authenticated key exchange (AKE) security models. Using our model, we characterize the long-term security of the BB84 QKD protocol with computationally secure authentication against an eventually unbounded adversary. By basing our model on traditional AKE models, we can more readily compare the relative merits of various forms of QKD and existing classical AKE protocols. This comparison illustrates in which types of adversarial environments different quantum and classical key agreement protocols can be secure.

id: 1206.6224
title: Can a Future Choice Affect a Past Measurement's Outcome?
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Eliahu Cohen, Doron Grossman, Avshalom C. Elitzur
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures. This is a preprint of a lecture given by E.C in the plenary session of the "International Conference on New Frontiers in Physics", Crete, June 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6224
abstract: An EPR experiment is studied where each particle undergoes a few weak measurements of different spin-orientations, whose outcomes are individually recorded. Then the particle undergoes a strong measurement along a spin orientation freely chosen at the last moment. Bell-inequality violation is expected between the two strong measurements. At the same time, agreement is expected between all same-spin measurements, whether weak or strong. A contradiction thereby ensues: i) A weak measurement cannot determine the outcome of a successive strong one; ii) Bell's theorem forbids spin values to exist prior to the final choice of the spin-orientation to be measured; and iii) Indeed no disentanglement is inflicted by the weak measurements; yet iv) The weak measurements' outcome agrees with those of the strong ones. The only reasonable resolution seems to be that of the Two-State-Vector Formalism, namely that the weak measurement's outcomes anticipate the experimenter's future choice, even before the experimenter themselves knows what their choice is going to be. Causal loops are avoided by this anticipation remaining encrypted until the final outcomes enable to decipher it.

id: 1206.6253
title: Partial separability revisited: Necessary and sufficient criteria
authors: Szil¨¢rd Szalay, Zolt¨¢n K?k¨¦nyesi
comments: v3: 22 pages, 5 tables, 1 figure, minor corrections (typos), clarification in the Introduction. Accepted in Phys. Rev. A. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032341 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6253
abstract: We extend the classification of mixed states of quantum systems composed of arbitrary number of subsystems of arbitrary dimensions. This extended classification is complete in the sense of partial separability and gives 1+18+1 partial separability classes in the tripartite case contrary to a former 1+8+1. Then we give necessary and sufficient criteria for these classes, which make it possible to determine to which class a mixed state belongs. These criteria are given by convex roof extensions of functions defined on pure states. In the special case of three-qubit systems, we define a different set of such functions with the help of the Freudenthal triple system approach of three-qubit entanglement.

id: 1206.6255
title: Optimal Squeezing in Resonance Fluorescence via Atomic-State Purification
authors: P. Gr¨¹nwald, W. Vogel
comments: 6 pages including supplemental information, 3 figures. Accepted for PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 013601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6255
abstract: Squeezing of atomic resonance fluorescence is shown to be optimized by a properly designed environment, which can be realized by a quasi-resonant cavity. Optimal squeezing is achieved if the atomic coherence is maximized, corresponding to a pure atomic quantum state. The atomic-state purification is achieved by the backaction of the cavity field on the atom, which increases the atomic coherence and decreases the atomic excitation. For realistic cavities, the coupling of the atom to the cavity field yields a purity of the atomic state of more than 99%. The fragility of squeezing against dephasing is substantially reduced in this scenario, which may be important for various applications.

id: 1206.6265
title: Robust-fidelity atom-photon entangling gates in the weak-coupling regime
authors: Ying Li, Leandro Aolita, Darrick E. Chang, Leong Chuan Kwek
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 160504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6265
abstract: We describe a simple entangling principle based on the scattering of photons off single emitters in one-dimensional waveguides (or extremely-lossy cavities). The scheme can be applied to photonic qubits encoded in polarization or time-bin, and features a filtering mechanism that works effectively as a built-in error-correction directive. This automatically maps imperfections from weak couplings, atomic decay into undesired modes, frequency mismatches, or finite bandwidths of the incident photonic pulses, into heralded losses instead of infidelities. The scheme is thus adequate for high-fidelity maximally entangling gates even in the weak-coupling regime. These, in turn, can be directly applied to store and retrieve photonic-qubit states, thereby completing an atom-photon interface toolbox, or to sequential measurement-based quantum computations with atomic memories.

id: 1206.6269
title: Entanglement and output entropy of the diagonal map
authors: Meik Hellmund
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6269
abstract: We review some properties of the convex roof extension, a construction used, e.g., in the definition of the entanglement of formation. Especially we consider the use of symmetries of channels and states for the construction of the convex roof. As an application we study the entanglement entropy of the diagonal map for permutation symmetric real N=3 states $\omega(z)$ and solve the case $z<0$ where $z$ is the non-diagonal entry in the density matrix. We also report a surprising result about the behaviour of the output entropy of the diagonal map for arbitrary dimensions $N$; showing a bifurcation at N=6.

id: 1206.6298
title: Quantum walks as a probe of structural anomalies in graphs
authors: Mark Hillery, Hongjun Zheng, Edgar Feldman, Daniel Reitzner, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 062325 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6298
abstract: We study how quantum walks can be used to find structural anomalies in graphs via several examples. Two of our examples are based on star graphs, graphs with a single central vertex to which the other vertices, which we call external vertices, are connected by edges. In the basic star graph, these are the only edges. If we now connect a subset of the external vertices to form a complete subgraph, a quantum walk can be used to find these vertices with a quantum speedup. Thus, under some circumstances, a quantum walk can be used to locate where the connectivity of a network changes. We also look at the case of two stars connected at one of their external vertices. A quantum walk can find the vertex shared by both graphs, again with a quantum speedup. This provides an example of using a quantum walk in order to find where two networks are connected. Finally, we use a quantum walk on a complete bipartite graph to find an extra edge that destroys the bipartite nature of the graph.

id: 1206.6310
title: Complete quantum measurements break entanglement
authors: Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376, 3495-3498 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6310
abstract: Complete measurement of a quantum observable (POVM) is a measurement of the maximally refined version of the POVM. Complete measurements give information on multiplicities of measurement outcomes and can be viewed as state preparation procedures. Moreover, any observable can be measured completely. In this Letter, we show that a complete measurement breaks entanglement completely between the system, ancilla and their environment. Finally, consequences to the quantum Zeno effect and complete position measurements are discussed.

id: 1206.6321
title: Reservoir engineering and dynamical phase transitions in optomechanical arrays
authors: A. Tomadin, S. Diehl, M. D. Lukin, P. Rabl, P. Zoller
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033821 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6321
abstract: We study the driven-dissipative dynamics of photons interacting with an array of micromechanical membranes in an optical cavity. Periodic membrane driving and phonon creation result in an effective photon-number conserving non-unitary dynamics, which features a steady state with long-range photonic coherence. If the leakage of photons out of the cavity is counteracted by incoherent driving of the photonic modes, we show that the system undergoes a dynamical phase transition to the state with long-range coherence. A minimal system, composed of two micromechanical membranes in a cavity, is studied in detail, and it is shown to be a realistic setup where the key processes of the driven-dissipative dynamics can be seen.

id: 1206.6323
title: Local implementations of non-local quantum gates in linear entangled channel
authors: Debashis Saha, Sanket Nandan, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures and 7 tables
journal: JQIS 4 (02), 97 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6323
abstract: In this paper, we demonstrate n-party controlled unitary gate implementations locally on arbitrary remote state through linear entangled channel where control parties share entanglement with the adjacent control parties and only one of them shares entanglement with the target party. In such a network, we describe the protocol of simultaneous implementation of controlled-Hermitian gate starting from three party scenario. We also explicate the implementation of three party controlled-Unitary gate, a generalized form of To?oli gate and subsequently generalize the protocol for n-party using minimal cost.

id: 1206.6357
title: Analysis of Imperfections in Practical Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Paul Jouguet, S¨¦bastien Kunz-Jacques, Eleni Diamanti, Anthony Leverrier
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032309 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6357
abstract: As quantum key distribution becomes a mature technology, it appears clearly that some assumptions made in the security proofs cannot be justified in practical implementations. This might open the door to possible side-channel attacks. We examine several discrepancies between theoretical models and experimental setups in the case of continuous-variable quantum key distribution. We study in particular the impact of an imperfect modulation on the security of Gaussian protocols and show that approximating the theoretical Gaussian modulation with a discrete one is sufficient in practice. We also address the issue of properly calibrating the detection setup, and in particular the value of the shot noise. Finally, we consider the influence of phase noise in the preparation stage of the protocol and argue that taking this noise into account can improve the secret key rate because this source of noise is not controlled by the eavesdropper.

id: 1206.6491
title: A problem with the Pusey, Barrett, Rudolph analysis of the reality of the quantum state
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6491
abstract: The analysis of Pusey, Barrett and Rudolph aims to show there can be no objective physical reality which underlies, and is more general than, the state vector. But there appears to be a gap in their reasoning. To show their result, they use entangled states of independent systems. However, no specific experimental arrangement to detect these entangled states has been proposed. Thus their argument as it stands does not fully show there is a detectable conflict between the predictions of quantum mechanics and the existence of an underlying reality. And it is not clear that one can devise the necessary measuring device.

id: 1206.6520
title: Bell's inequality for Macroscopic Squeezed Vacuum
authors: Maria Chekhova, Georgy Rytikov
comments: Withdrawn because of the necessity to re-consider the treatment
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6520
abstract: A non-dichotomic Bell-type inequality for macroscopic photon numbers in two spatially separated beams is derived from local realistic assumptions. This inequality is shown to be possible to violate with the macroscopic Bell states recently obtained in experiment.

id: 1206.6528
title: Adversary Lower Bound for the k-sum Problem
authors: Aleksandrs Belovs, Robert Spalek
comments: 10 pages, minor changes in v2. Extended and simplified version of an earlier preprint of one of the authors arXiv:1204.5074
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6528
abstract: We prove a tight quantum query lower bound $\Omega(n^{k/(k+1)})$ for the problem of deciding whether there exist $k$ numbers among $n$ that sum up to a prescribed number, provided that the alphabet size is sufficiently large. This is an extended and simplified version of an earlier preprint of one of the authors arXiv:1204.5074.

id: 1206.6550
title: Wavelength attack scheme on continuous-variable quantum key distribution system using heterodyne detection protocol
authors: Jing-Zheng Huang, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Shuang Wang, Hong-Wei Li, Wei Chen, Guan-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. This paper had been rewritten and the newest version is posted on arXiv:1302.0090
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6550
abstract: The security proof of continuous variable quantum key distribution(CV QKD) based on two assumptions that the eavesdropper can neither act on the local oscillator nor control Bob's beam splitter. These assumptions maybe invalid in practice due to some potential imperfections of the implementations of the protocol. In [Phys.Rev.A, 84.062308], we found that one can control the intensity transmission of the beam splitter by switching the wavelength of the input light. In this paper, we revisit the problem of transmitting the local oscillator in public channel, and propose a wavelength attack targeting the CV QKD systems using heterodyne protocol. Our attack is proved to be feasible and renders all final key shared between the legitimate parties insecure even they have monitored the intensity. To prevent our attack, a wavelength filter should be added before performing the heterodyne detection.

id: 1206.6578
title: Quantum erasure with causally disconnected choice
authors: Xiao-song Ma, Johannes Kofler, Angie Qarry, Nuray Tetik, Thomas Scheidl, Rupert Ursin, Sven Ramelow, Thomas Herbst, Lothar Ratschbacher, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Thomas Jennewein, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 110, 1221-1226 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6578
abstract: The counterintuitive features of quantum physics challenge many common-sense assumptions. In an interferometric quantum eraser experiment, one can actively choose whether or not to erase which-path information, a particle feature, of one quantum system and thus observe its wave feature via interference or not by performing a suitable measurement on a distant quantum system entangled with it. In all experiments performed to date, this choice took place either in the past or, in some delayed-choice arrangements, in the future of the interference. Thus in principle, physical communications between choice and interference were not excluded. Here we report a quantum eraser experiment, in which by enforcing Einstein locality no such communication is possible. This is achieved by independent active choices, which are space-like separated from the interference. Our setup employs hybrid path-polarization entangled photon pairs which are distributed over an optical fiber link of 55 m in one experiment, or over a free-space link of 144 km in another. No naive realistic picture is compatible with our results because whether a quantum could be seen as showing particle- or wave-like behavior would depend on a causally disconnected choice. It is therefore suggestive to abandon such pictures altogether.

id: 1206.6591
title: Effect of Intensity Modulator Extinction on Practical Quantum Key Distribution System
authors: Jing-Zheng Huang, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Shuang Wang, Hong-Wei Li, Wei Chen, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. EPJD accepted
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2012) 66: 159
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6591
abstract: We study how the imperfection of intensity modulator effects on the security of a practical quantum key distribution system. The extinction ratio of the realistic intensity modulator is considered in our security analysis. We show that the secret key rate increases, under the practical assumption that the indeterminable noise introduced by the imperfect intensity modulator can not be controlled by the eavesdropper.

id: 1206.6621
title: Second order coupling between excited atoms and surface polaritons
authors: Sofia Ribeiro, Stefan Y. Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6621
abstract: Casimir-Polder interactions between an atom and a macroscopic body are typically regarded as due to the exchange of virtual photons. This is strictly true only at zero temperature. At finite temperature, real-photon exchange can provide a significant contribution to the overall dispersion interaction. Here we describe a new resonant two-photon process between an atom and a planar interface. We derive a second order effective Hamiltonian to explain how atoms can couple resonantly to the surface polariton modes of the dielectric medium. This leads to second-order energy exchanges which we compare with the standard nonresonant Casimir-Polder energy.

id: 1206.6668
title: Security proof of the unbalanced phase-encoded BB84 protocol
authors: Agnes Ferenczi, Varun Narasimhachar, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6668
abstract: In optical implementations of the phase-encoded BB84 protocol, the bit information is usually encoded in the phase of two consecutive photon pulses generated in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer. In the actual experimental realization, the loss in the arms of the Mach-Zehnder interferometer is not balanced, for example because only one arm contains a lossy phase modulator. Therefore, the amplitudes of the pulses is not balanced, and the structure of the signals and measurements no longer corresponds to the (balanced) ideal BB84 protocol. Hence, the BB84 security analysis no longer applies in this scenario. We provide a security proof of the unbalanced phase-encoded BB84. The resulting key rate turns out to be lower than the key rate of the ideal BB84 protocol. Therefore, in order to guarantee security, the loss due to the phase modulator cannot be ignored.

id: 1206.6669
title: Measure of multipartite entanglement with computable lower bounds
authors: Yan Hong, Ting Gao, Fengli Yan
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 86, 062323 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6669
abstract: In this paper, we present a measure of multipartite entanglement ($k$-nonseparable), $k$-ME concurrence $C_{k-\mathrm{ME}}(\rho)$ that unambiguously detects all $k$-nonseparable states in arbitrary dimensions, where the special case, 2-ME concurrence $C_{2-\mathrm{ME}}(\rho)$, is a measure of genuine multipartite entanglement. The new measure $k$-ME concurrence satisfies important characteristics of an entanglement measure including entanglement monotone, vanishing on $k$-separable states, convexity, subadditivity and strictly greater than zero for all $k$-nonseparable states. Two powerful lower bounds on this measure are given. These lower bounds are experimentally implementable without quantum state tomography and are easily computable as no optimization or eigenvalue evaluation is needed. We illustrate detailed examples in which the given bounds perform better than other known detection criteria.

id: 1206.6702
title: Unsharp continuous measurement of a Bose-Einstein condensate: full quantum state estimation and the transition to classicality
authors: Moritz Hiller, Magnus Rehn, Francesco Petruccione, Andreas Buchleitner, Thomas Konrad
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033624 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6702
abstract: We study a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in a double-well potential subject to an unsharp continuous measurement of the atom number in one of the two wells. We investigate the back action of the measurement on the quantum dynamics and the viability to monitor the ensuing time evolution. For vanishing inter-atomic interactions, mainly the expectation values of the measured local observable can be inferred from the measurement record. Conversely, in the presence of moderate inter-atomic interactions, the entire many-body state --modified by the measurement-- is monitored with unit fidelity and, at the same time, the measurement effects a transition from quantum to mean-field (classical) behavior of the BEC. We show that this perfect state estimation is possible because the inter-atomic interactions enhance the information gained via the measurement.

id: 1206.6716
title: Long-range adiabatic quantum state transfer through a linear array of quantum dots
authors: Bing Chen, Q. H. Shen, Wei Fan, Yan Xu
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Sci China-Phys Mech Astron, 2012, 55: 1-6
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6716
abstract: We introduce an adiabatic long-range quantum communication proposal based on a quantum dot array. By adiabatically varying the external gate voltage applied on the system, the quantum information encoded in the electron can be transported from one end dot to another. We numerically solve the Schr\"odinger equation for a system with a given number of quantum dots. It is shown that this scheme is a simple and efficient protocol to coherently manipulate the population transfer under suitable gate pulses. The dependence of the energy gap and the transfer time on system parameters is analyzed and shown numerically. We also investigate the adiabatic passage in a more realistic system in the presence of inevitable fabrication imperfections. This method provides guidance for future realizations of adiabatic quantum state transfer in experiments.

id: 1206.6749
title: Bipartite entanglement of large quantum systems
authors: Antonella De Pasquale
comments: Phd Thesis, Universita' degli Studi di Bari Aldo Moro (Italy) - 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6749
abstract: In this thesis we study the behavior of bipartite entanglement of a large quantum system, by analyzing the distribution of the Schmidt coefficients of the reduced density matrix. Applying the general methods of classical statistical mechanics, we develop a canonical approach for the study of the distribution of these coefficients for a fixed value of the average entanglement. We introduce a partition function depending on a fictitious temperature, which localizes the measure on the set of states with higher and lower entanglement, if compared to typical (random) states with respect to the Haar measure. The purity of one subsystem, which is our entanglement measure/indicator, plays the role of energy in the partition function. This thesis consists of two parts. In the first part, we completely characterize the distribution of the purity and of the eigenvalues for pure states. The global picture unveils several locally stable solutions exchange stabilities, through the presence of first and second order phase transitions. We also detect the presence of metastable states. In the second part, we focus on mixed states. Through the same statistical approach, we determine the exact expression of the first two moments of the local purity and the high temperature expansion of the first moment. We also bridge our problem with the theory of quantum channels, more precisely we exploit the symmetry properties of the twirling transformations in order to compute the exact expression for the first moment of the local purity.

id: 1206.6766
title: Propagation of charged particle waves in a uniform magnetic field
authors: Christian Bracher, Arnulfo Gonzalez
comments: 39 pages, 16 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 022715 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6766
abstract: This paper considers the probability density and current distributions generated by a point-like, isotropic source of monoenergetic charges embedded into a uniform magnetic field environment. Electron sources of this kind have been realized in recent photodetachment microscopy experiments. Unlike the total photocurrent cross section, which is largely understood, the spatial profiles of charge and current emitted by the source display an unexpected hierarchy of complex patterns, even though the distributions, apart from scaling, depend only on a single physical parameter. We examine the electron dynamics both by solving the quantum problem, i. e., finding the energy Green function, and from a semiclassical perspective based on the simple cyclotron orbits followed by the electron. Simulations suggest that the semiclassical method, which involves here interference between an infinite set of paths, faithfully reproduces the features observed in the quantum solution, even in extreme circumstances, and lends itself to an interpretation of some (though not all) of the rich structure exhibited in this simple problem.

id: 1206.6778
title: iAQC: The Intensity-Aware Quantum Cryptography Protocol
authors: Subhash Kak, Yuhua Chen, Pramode Verma
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, corrected typographical errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6778
abstract: This paper reports a variant of the three-stage quantum cryptography protocol which can be used in low intensity laser output regimes. The variant, which tracks the intensity of the laser beam at the intermediate stages, makes the task of the eavesdropper harder than the standard K06 protocol. The constraints on the iAQC protocol are much less than those on BB84 and in principle it can not only be used for key distribution but also for direct bitwise encryption of data. The iAQC protocol is an improvement on the K06 protocol in that it makes it harder for the eavesdropper to monitor the channel.

id: 1206.6880
title: Communication channel of fermionic system in accelerated frame
authors: Jinho Chang, Younghun Kwon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6880
abstract: In this article, we investigate the communication channel of fermionic system in an accelerated frame. We observe that at the infinite acceleration, the mutual information of single rail quantum channel coincides with that of double rail quantum channel, but those of classical ones reach different values. Furthermore, we find that at the infinite acceleration, the conditional entropy of single(or double) rail quantum channel vanishes, but those of classical ones may have finite values. In addition, we see that even when considering a method beyond the single mode approximation, the dual rail entangled state seems to provide better channel capacity than the single rail entangled state, unlike the bosonic case. Moreover, we find that the single-mode approximation is not sufficient to analyze the communication channel of fermionic system in an accelerated frame.

id: 1206.6881
title: Experimental achievement of the entanglement assisted capacity for the depolarizing channel
authors: Andrea Chiuri, Sandro Giacomini, Chiara Macchiavello, Paolo Mataloni
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6881
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the achievement of the entanglement assisted capacity for classical information transmission over a depolarizing channel. The implementation is based on the generation and local manipulation of 2-qubit Bell states, which are finally measured at the receiver by a complete Bell state analysis. The depolarizing channel is realized by introducing quantum noise in a controlled way on one of the two qubits. This work demonstrates the achievement of the maximum allowed amount of information that can be shared in the presence of noise and the highest reported value in the noiseless case.

id: 1206.6891
title: Quantized Excitation Spectrum of the Classical Harmonic Oscillator in Zero-Point Radiation
authors: Wayne Cheng-Wei Huang, Herman Batelaan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6891
abstract: We report that upon excitation by a single pulse, the classical harmonic oscillator immersed in classical electromagnetic zero-point radiation, as described by random electrodynamics, exhibits a quantized excitation spectrum in agreement to that of the quantum harmonic oscillator. This numerical result is interesting in view of the generally accepted idea that classical theories do not support quantized energy spectra.

id: 1206.6900
title: Stability of the Area Law for the Entropy of Entanglement
authors: Spyridon Michalakis
comments: 8 pages, extended introduction and updated references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6900
abstract: Recent results on the stability of the spectral gap under general perturbations for frustration-free Hamiltonians, have motivated the following question: Does the entanglement entropy of quantum states that are connected to states satisfying an area law along gapped Hamiltonian paths, also satisfy an area law? We answer this question in the affirmative, combining recent advances in quasi-adiabatic evolution and Lieb-Robinson bounds with ideas from the proof of the 1D area law.

id: 1206.6909
title: Demonstration of Jarzynski's Equality in Open Quantum Systems Using a Step-Wise Pulling Protocol
authors: Van A. Ngo, Stephan Haas
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 031127 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6909
abstract: We present a generalization of Jarzynski's Equality, applicable to quantum systems, relating discretized mechanical work and free-energy changes. The theory is based on a step-wise pulling protocol. We find that work distribution functions can be constructed from fluctuations of a reaction coordinate along a reaction pathway in the step-wise pulling protocol. We also propose two sets of equations to determine the two possible optimal pathways that provide the most significant contributions to free-energy changes. We find that the transitions along these most optimal pathways, satisfying both sets of equations, follow the principle of detailed balance. We then test the theory by explicitly computing the free-energy changes for a one-dimensional quantum harmonic oscillator. This approach suggests a feasible way of measuring the fluctuations to experimentally test Jarzynski's Equality in many-body systems, such as Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 1206.6928
title: Biological measurement beyond the quantum limit
authors: Michael A. Taylor, Jiri Janousek, Vincent Daria, Joachi Knittel, Boris Hage, Hans-A. Bachor, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 229-233 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6928
abstract: Quantum noise places a fundamental limit on the per photon sensitivity attainable in optical measurements. This limit is of particular importance in biological measurements, where the optical power must be constrained to avoid damage to the specimen. By using non-classically correlated light, we demonstrated that the quantum limit can be surpassed in biological measurements. Quantum enhanced microrheology was performed within yeast cells by tracking naturally occurring lipid granules with sensitivity 2.4 dB beyond the quantum noise limit. The viscoelastic properties of the cytoplasm could thereby be determined with a 64% improved measurement rate. This demonstration paves the way to apply quantum resources broadly in a biological context.

id: 1206.6934
title: Tsirelson's bound and supersymmetric entangled states
authors: L. Borsten, K. Bradler, M. J. Duff
comments: Updated to match published version. Minor modifications. References added
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A October 8, 2014 470 2170
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6934
abstract: A superqubit, belonging to a $(2|1)$-dimensional super-Hilbert space, constitutes the minimal supersymmetric extension of the conventional qubit. In order to see whether superqubits are more nonlocal than ordinary qubits, we construct a class of two-superqubit entangled states as a nonlocal resource in the CHSH game. Since super Hilbert space amplitudes are Grassmann numbers, the result depends on how we extract real probabilities and we examine three choices of map: (1) DeWitt (2) Trigonometric (3) Modified Rogers. In cases (1) and (2) the winning probability reaches the Tsirelson bound $p_{win}=\cos^2{\pi/8}\simeq0.8536$ of standard quantum mechanics. Case (3) crosses Tsirelson's bound with $p_{win}\simeq0.9265$. Although all states used in the game involve probabilities lying between 0 and 1, case (3) permits other changes of basis inducing negative transition probabilities.

id: 1206.6935
title: On Exchange of Orbital Angular Momentum Between Twisted Photons and Atomic Electrons
authors: Basil S. Davis, L. Kaplan, J. H. McGuire
comments: 16 pages
journal: J. Opt. 15 (2013) 035403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6935
abstract: We obtain an expression for the matrix element for a twisted (Laguerre-Gaussian profile) photon scattering from a hydrogen atom. We consider photons incoming with an orbital angular momentum (OAM) of $\ell \hbar$, carried by a factor of $e^{i \ell \phi}$ not present in a plane-wave or pure Gaussian profile beam. The nature of the transfer of $+2\ell$ units of OAM from the photon to the azimuthal atomic quantum number of the atom is investigated. We obtain simple formulae for these OAM flip transitions for elastic forward scattering of twisted photons when the photon wavelength $\lambda$ is large compared with the atomic target size $a$, and small compared the Rayleigh range $z_R$, which characterizes the collimation length of the twisted photon beam.

id: 1206.6954
title: Violation of Leggett-Garg inequalities in quantum measurements with variable resolution and back-action
authors: Yutaro Suzuki, Masataka Iinuma, Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 103022
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6954
abstract: Quantum mechanics violates Leggett-Garg inequalities because the operator formalism predicts correlations between different spin components that would correspond to negative joint probabilities for the outcomes of joint measurements. However, the uncertainty principle ensures that such joint measurements cannot be implemented without errors. In a sequential measurement of the spin components, the resolution and back-action errors of the intermediate measurement can be described by random spin flips acting on an intrinsic joint probability. If the error rates are known, the intrinsic joint probability can be reconstructed from the noisy statistics of the actual measurement outcomes. In this paper, we use the spin-flip model of measurement errors to analyze experimental data on photon polarization obtained with an interferometric setup that allows us to vary the measurement strength and hence the balance between resolution and back-action errors. We confirm that the intrinsic joint probability obtained from the experimental data is independent of measurement strength and show that the same violation of the Leggett-Garg inequality can be obtained for any combination of measurement resolution and back-action.

id: 1206.6986
title: Operational quasiprobabilities for qudits
authors: Junghee Ryu, James Lim, Sunghyuk Hong, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052123 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6986
abstract: We propose an operational quasiprobability function for qudits, enabling a comparison between quantum and hidden-variable theories. We show that the quasiprobability function becomes positive semidefinite if consecutive measurement results are described by a hidden-variable model with locality and noninvasive measurability assumed. Otherwise, it is negative valued. The negativity depends on the observables to be measured as well as a given state, as the quasiprobability function is operationally defined. We also propose a marginal quasiprobability function and show that it plays the role of an entanglement witness for two qudits. In addition, we discuss an optical experiment of a polarization qubit to demonstrate its nonclassicality in terms of the quasiprobability function.

id: 1206.6987
title: Classical Trajectories of the Continuum States of the ${\cal{PT}}$ symmetric Scarf II potential
authors: Anjana Sinha
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. Lett. vol. 98 (2012) 60005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6987
abstract: We apply the factorization technique developed by Kuru et. al. [Ann. Phys. {\bf 323} (2008) 413] to obtain the exact analytical classical trajectories and momenta of the continuum states of the non Hermitian but ${\cal{PT}}$ symmetric Scarf II potential. In particular, we observe that the strange behaviour of the quantum version at the spectral singularity has an interesting classical analogue.

id: 1206.6994
title: Minimal instances for toric code ground states
authors: Nicolai Lang, Hans Peter B¨¹chler
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022336 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6994
abstract: A decade ago Kitaev's toric code model established the new paradigm of topological quantum computation. Due to remarkable theoretical and experimental progress, the quantum simulation of such complex many-body systems is now within the realms of possibility. Here we consider the question, to which extent the ground states of small toric code systems differ from LU-equivalent graph states. We argue that simplistic (though experimentally attractive) setups obliterate the differences between the toric code and equivalent graph states; hence we search for the smallest setups on the square- and triangular lattice, such that the quasi-locality of the toric code hamiltonian becomes a distinctive feature. To this end, a purely geometric procedure to transform a given toric code setup into an LC-equivalent graph state is derived. In combination with an algorithmic computation of LC-equivalent graph states, we find the smallest non-trivial setup on the square lattice to contain 5 plaquettes and 16 qubits; on the triangular lattice the number of plaquettes and qubits is reduced to 4 and 9, respectively.

id: 1206.6999
title: New Examples of Kochen-Specker Type Configurations on Three Qubits
authors: Artur E. Ruuge
comments: 24 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 465304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6999
abstract: A new example of a saturated Kochen-Specker (KS) type configuration of 64 rays in 8-dimensional space (the Hilbert space of a triple of qubits) is constructed. It is proven that this configuration has a tropical dimension 6 and that it contains a critical subconfiguration of 36 rays. A natural multicolored generalisation of the Kochen-Specker theory is given based on a concept of an entropy of a saturated configuration of rays.

id: 1206.7004
title: Information geometric approach to the renormalisation group
authors: C¨¦dric B¨¦ny, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.7004
abstract: We propose a general formulation of the renormalisation group as a family of quantum channels which connect the microscopic physical world to the observable world at some scale. By endowing the set of quantum states with an operationally motivated information geometry, we induce the space of Hamiltonians with a corresponding metric geometry. The resulting structure allows one to quantify information loss along RG flows in terms of the distinguishability of thermal states. In particular, we introduce a family of functions, expressible in terms of two-point correlation functions, which are non increasing along the flow. Among those, we study the speed of the flow, and its generalization to infinite lattices.

id: 1206.7019
title: Timing attacks on practical quantum cryptographic systems
authors: Nitin Jain
comments: Original article published in Hakin9 Extra, a digital IT Security magazine (hakin9.org). Section 2 serves to explain (in essence) the operation of a quantum-crypto protocol to even non-scientists. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.7019
abstract: With photons being the only available candidates for long-distance quantum communication, most quantum cryptographic devices are physically realized as optical systems that operate a security protocol based on the laws of quantum mechanics. But to finally yield a stream of bits (secret key) usable for encryption, a quantum-to-classical transition is required. Synchronization of electronic & optoelectronic components involved in such tasks thus becomes a necessary and important step. However, it also opens up the possibility of timing-based loopholes and attacks.

id: 1206.7036
title: Hybrid classical-quantum formulations ask for hybrid notions
authors: Carlos Barcel¨®, Ra¨²l Carballo-Rubio, Luis J. Garay, Ricardo G¨®mez-Escalante
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures (minor changes to match the published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042120 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.7036
abstract: We reappraise some of the hybrid classical-quantum models proposed in the literature with the goal of retrieving some of their common characteristics. In particular, first, we analyze in detail the Peres-Terno argument regarding the inconsistency of hybrid quantizations of the Sudarshan type. We show that to accept such hybrid formalism entails the necessity of dealing with additional degrees of freedom beyond those in the straight complete quantization of the system. Second, we recover a similar enlargement of degrees of freedom in the so-called statistical hybrid models. Finally, we use Wigner's quantization of a simple model to illustrate how in hybrid systems the subsystems are never purely classical or quantum. A certain degree of quantumness (classicality) is being exchanged between the different sectors of the theory, which in this particular unphysical toy model makes them undistinguishable.

id: 1206.7057
title: Experimental test of strongly non-classical character of a noisy squeezed single-photon state
authors: M. Jezek, A. Tipsmark, R. Dong, J. Fiurasek, L. Mista Jr, R. Filip, U. L. Andersen
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, REVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043813 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.7057
abstract: We experimentally verify the quantum non-Gaussian character of a conditionally generated noisy squeezed single-photon state with positive Wigner function. Employing an optimized witness based on probabilities of squeezed vacuum and squeezed single-photon states we prove that the state cannot be expressed as a mixture of Gaussian states. In our experiment, the non-Gaussian state is generated by conditional subtraction of a single photon from squeezed vacuum state. The state is probed with a homodyne detector and the witness is determined by averaging a suitable pattern function over the measured homodyne data. Our experimental results are in good agreement with a theoretical fit obtained from a simple yet realistic model of the experimental setup.

id: 1206.0075
title: Dynamical decoupling of a singlet-triplet qubit afflicted by a charge fluctuator
authors: Guy Ramon
comments: 17 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 125317 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0075
abstract: The efficiency of dynamical decoupling pulse sequences in removing noise due to a charge fluctuator is studied for a singlet-triplet spin qubit. We develop a numerical method to solve the dynamical equations for all three components of the Bloch vector under a general pulse protocol, and with an arbitrary rotation axis. The qubit is shown to undergo both dephasing and dissipative dynamics, pending on its working point. Analytical solutions are found for the limits of weakly and strongly coupled fluctuators, shedding light on the distinct dynamics in the different parameter regimes. Scaling of the qubit decay time with the number of control pulses is found to follow a power law over a wide range of TLF parameters and qubit bias points.

id: 1206.0082
title: Pretty good state transfer on double stars
authors: Xiaoxia Fan, Chris Godsil
comments: 15 pages, 2 EPS figures
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0082
abstract: Let A be the adjacency matrix of a graph $X$ and suppose U(t)=exp(itA). We view A as acting on $\cx^{V(X)}$ and take the standard basis of this space to be the vectors $e_u$ for $u$ in $V(X)$. Physicists say that we have perfect state transfer from vertex $u$ to $v$ at time $\tau$ if there is a scalar $\gamma$ such that $U(\tau)e_u = \gamma e_v$. (Since $U(t)$ is unitary, $\norm\gamma=1$.) For example, if $X$ is the $d$-cube and $u$ and $v$ are at distance $d$ then we have perfect state transfer from $u$ to $v$ at time $\pi/2$. Despite the existence of this nice family, it has become clear that perfect state transfer is rare. Hence we consider a relaxation: we say that we have pretty good state transfer from $u$ to $v$ if there is a complex number $\gamma$ and, for each positive real $\epsilon$ there is a time $t$ such that $\norm{U(t)e_u - \gamma e_v} < \epsilon$. Again we necessarily have $|\gamma|=1$. Godsil, Kirkland, Severini and Smith showed that we have have pretty good state transfer between the end vertices of the path $P_n$ if and only $n+1$ is a power of two, a prime, or twice a prime. (There is perfect state transfer between the end vertices only for $P_2$ and $P_3$.) It is something of a surprise that the occurrence of pretty good state transfer is characterized by a number-theoretic condition. In this paper we study double-star graphs, which are trees with two vertices of degree $k+1$ and all other vertices with degree one. We prove that there is never perfect state transfer between the two vertices of degree $k+1$, and that there is pretty good state transfer between them if and only if $4k+1$ is a perfect square.

id: 1206.0116
title: Invisibility and PT-symmetry
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, revised version, accepted for publication in Phys.Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012103 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0116
abstract: For a general complex scattering potential defined on a real line, we show that the equations governing invisibility of the potential are invariant under the combined action of parity and time-reversal (PT) transformation. We determine the PT-symmetric an well as non-PT-symmetric invisible configurations of an easily realizable exactly solvable model that consists of a two-layer planar slab consisting of optically active material. Our analysis shows that although PT-symmetry is neither necessary nor sufficient for the invisibility of a scattering potential, it plays an important role in the characterization of the invisible configurations. A byproduct of our investigation is the discovery of certain configurations of our model that are effectively reflectionless in a spectral range as wide as several hundred nanometers.

id: 1206.0117
title: Nonlinear Dynamics of Ultra-Cold Gas: Collapse of Bose Gas With Attractive Interaction
authors: V. V. Flambaum, E. Kuznetsov
comments: Proceedings of NATO Advanced Research workshop on Singularities in Fluids, Plasmas and Optics (Heraklion, Greece, 1992) edited by R.E. Cafl isch and G.C. Papanicolaou (Kluwer Academic)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0117
abstract: Solutions for the Nonlinear Schrodinger equation for collapsing Bose gas with attraction. This is a copy of the paper published in 1992 in Proceedings of NATO Advanced Research workshop on Singularities in Fluids, Plasmas and Optics (Heraklion, Greece) edited by R.E. Caflisch and G.C. Papanicolaou (Kluwer Academic).

id: 1206.0193
title: Single Cooper-pair pumping in the adiabatic limit and beyond
authors: S. Gasparinetti, P. Solinas, Y. Yoon, J. P. Pekola
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 060502(R) (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0193
abstract: We demonstrate controlled pumping of Cooper pairs down to the level of a single pair per cycle, using an rf-driven Cooper-pair sluice. We also investigate the breakdown of the adiabatic dynamics in two different ways. By transferring many Cooper pairs at a time, we observe a crossover between pure Cooper-pair and mixed Cooper-pair-quasiparticle transport. By tuning the Josephson coupling that governs Cooper-pair tunneling, we characterize Landau-Zener transitions in our device. Our data are quantitatively accounted for by a simple model including decoherence effects.

id: 1206.0204
title: Theoretical formalism for collective electromagnetic response of discrete metamaterial systems
authors: Stewart D. Jenkins, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 34 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 085116 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0204
abstract: We develop a general formalism to describe the propagation of a near-resonant electromagnetic field in a medium composed of magnetodielectric resonators. As the size and the spatial separation of nanofabricated resonators in a metamaterial array is frequently less than the wavelength, we describe them as discrete scatterers, supporting a single mode of current oscillation represented by a single dynamic variable. We derive a Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formalism for the coupled electromagnetic fields and oscillating currents in the length gauge, obtained by the Power-Zienau-Woolley transformation. The response of each resonator to electromagnetic field is then described by polarization and magnetization densities that, to the lowest order in a multipole expansion, generate electric and magnetic dipole excitations. We derive a closed set of equations for the coherently scattered field and normal mode amplitudes of current oscillations of each resonator both within the rotating wave approximation, in which case the radiative decay rate is much smaller than the resonance frequency, and without such an assumption. The set of equations includes the radiative couplings between a discrete set of resonators mediated by the electromagnetic field, fully incorporating recurrent scattering processes to all orders. By considering an example of a two-dimensional split ring resonator metamaterial array, we show that the system responds cooperatively to near-resonant field, exhibiting collective eigenmodes, resonance frequencies, and radiative linewidths that result from strong radiative interactions between closely-spaced resonators.

id: 1206.0222
title: Re-entrance and entanglement in the one-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model
authors: M. Pino, J. Prior, A. M. Somoza, D. Jaksch, S. R. Clark
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023631 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0222
abstract: Re-entrance is a novel feature where the phase boundaries of a system exhibit a succession of transitions between two phases A and B, like A-B-A-B, when just one parameter is varied monotonically. This type of re-entrance is displayed by the 1D Bose Hubbard model between its Mott insulator (MI) and superfluid phase as the hopping amplitude is increased from zero. Here we analyse this counter-intuitive phenomenon directly in the thermodynamic limit by utilizing the infinite time-evolving block decimation algorithm to variationally minimize an infinite matrix product state (MPS) parameterized by a matrix size chi. Exploiting the direct restriction on the half-chain entanglement imposed by fixing chi, we determined that re-entrance in the MI lobes only emerges in this approximate when chi >= 8. This entanglement threshold is found to be coincident with the ability an infinite MPS to be simultaneously particle-number symmetric and capture the kinetic energy carried by particle-hole excitations above the MI. Focussing on the tip of the MI lobe we then applied, for the first time, a general finite-entanglement scaling analysis of the infinite order Kosterlitz-Thouless critical point located there. By analysing chi's up to a very moderate chi = 70 we obtained an estimate of the KT transition as t_KT = 0.30 +/- 0.01, demonstrating the how a finite-entanglement approach can provide not only qualitative insight but also quantitatively accurate predictions.

id: 1206.0242
title: A single ion as a three-body reaction center in an ultracold atomic gas
authors: Arne H?rter, Artjom Kr¨¹kow, Andreas Brunner, Wolfgang Schnitzler, Stefan Schmid, Johannes Hecker Denschlag
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0242
abstract: We report on three-body recombination of a single trapped Rb^+ ion and two neutral Rb atoms in an ultracold atom cloud. We observe that the corresponding rate coefficient K_3 depends on collision energy and is about a factor of 1000 larger than for three colliding neutral Rb atoms. In the three-body recombination process large energies up to several 0.1eV are released leading to an ejection of the ion from the atom cloud. It is sympathetically recooled back into the cloud via elastic binary collisions with cold atoms. Further, we find that the final ionic product of the three-body processes is again an atomic Rb^+ ion suggesting that the ion merely acts as a catalyzer, possibly in the formation of deeply bound Rb_2 molecules.

id: 1206.0364
title: Controlling fast transport of cold trapped ions
authors: Andreas Walther, Frank Ziesel, Thomas Ruster, Sam T. Dawkins, Konstantin Ott, Max Hettrich, Kilian Singer, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler, Ulrich Poschinger
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0364
abstract: We realize fast transport of ions in a segmented micro-structured Paul trap. The ion is shuttled over a distance of more than 10^4 times its groundstate wavefunction size during only 5 motional cycles of the trap (280 micro meter in 3.6 micro seconds). Starting from a ground-state-cooled ion, we find an optimized transport such that the energy increase is as low as 0.10 $\pm$ 0.01 motional quanta. In addition, we demonstrate that quantum information stored in a spin-motion entangled state is preserved throughout the transport. Shuttling operations are concatenated, as a proof-of-principle for the shuttling-based architecture to scalable ion trap quantum computing.

id: 1206.0378
title: Weak Markov Processes as Linear Systems
authors: Rolf Gohm
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0378
abstract: A noncommutative Fornasini-Marchesini system (a multi-variable version of a linear system) can be realized within a weak Markov process (a model for quantum evolution). For a discrete time parameter this is worked out systematically as a theory of representations of structure maps of a system by a weak process. We introduce subprocesses and quotient processes which can be described naturally by a suitable category of weak processes. A corresponding notion of cascade for processes induces a represented cascade of systems. We study the control theoretic notion of observability which turns out to be particularly interesting in connection with a cascade structure. As an application we gain new insights into stationary Markov chains where observability for the system is closely related to asymptotic completeness in the scattering theory of the chain. This motivates a general definition of asymptotic completeness in the category of weak processes.

id: 1206.0417
title: Optical Production of Stable Ultracold $^{88}$Sr$_2$ Molecules
authors: G. Reinaudi, C. B. Osborn, M. McDonald, S. Kotochigova, T. Zelevinsky
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 115303 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0417
abstract: We have produced large samples of ultracold $^{88}$Sr$_2$ molecules in the electronic ground state in an optical lattice. The molecules are bound by 0.05 cm$^{-1}$ and are stable for several milliseconds. The fast, all-optical method of molecule creation via intercombination line photoassociation relies on a near-unity Franck-Condon factor. The detection uses a weakly bound vibrational level corresponding to a very large dimer. This is the first of two steps needed to create Sr$_2$ in the absolute ground quantum state. Lattice-trapped Sr$_2$ is of interest to frequency metrology and ultracold chemistry.

id: 1206.0531
title: Mutually unbiased bases as submodules and subspaces
authors: Joanne L. Hall, Jan Stovicek
comments: 5 pages. Accepted to ISIT2012
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0531
abstract: Mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) have been used in several cryptographic and communications applications. There has been much speculation regarding connections between MUBs and finite geometries. Most of which has focused on a connection with projective and affine planes. We propose a connection with higher dimensional projective geometries and projective Hjelmslev geometries. We show that this proposed geometric structure is present in several constructions of MUBs.

id: 1206.0582
title: Convergent Quantum Normal Forms, ${\mathcal P}{\mathcal T}$-symmetry and reality of the spectrum
authors: Emanuela Caliceti, Sandro Graffi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0582
abstract: A class of non-selfadjoint, $\PT$-symmetric operators is identified similar to a self-adjoint one, thus entailing the reality of the spectrum. The similarity transformation is explicitly constructed through the method of the quantum normal form, whose convergence (uniform with respect to the Planck constant) is proved. Further consequences of the uniform convergence of the quantum normal form are the establishment of an exact quantization formula for the eigenvalues.

id: 1206.0586
title: Slow Light Effect by Photonic Angular Momentum States
authors: Qing-Hua Guo, Ming Kang, Teng-Fei Li, Hai-Xu Cui, Jing Chen
comments: 4 pages; 5 figures; submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0586
abstract: We show that the photonic angular momentum states (AMSs) in metamaterials can be utilized to achieve slow light. The photonic AMS possesses a helical phase, the orbital-angular-momentum degree of freedom in photons. Unlike the traditional slow-light schemes in metamaterials by using orthogonal polarizations, the photonic AMSs are dipole forbidden for all polarizations of free-space radiation due to the existence of helical phase. Numerical simulation for a metamaterial design proves the feasibility of this scheme, in which the indirectly excitation of dark photonic AMSs burns some transmission dips in the otherwise high transmission window. With the unique merits of dark photonic AMSs, this slow light scheme can realize a high group index $n_g$ greater than $\sim500$.

id: 1206.0662
title: Towards applications of graded Paraparticle algebras
authors: K. Kanakoglou, A. Herrera-Aguilar
comments: 5 pages, Contribution to the 19th Symposium of the Hellenic Nuclear Physics Society (HNPS), Thessaloniki, May 2010
journal: Proceedings of the 19th Symposium of the HNPS, p.181-185, 2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0662
abstract: An outline is sketched, of applications of the ideas and the mathematical methods presented at the 19th symposium of the Hellenic Nuclear Physics Society (HNPS) in Thessaloniki, May 2010

id: 1206.0671
title: Geometric magnetism in open quantum systems
authors: Michele Campisi, Sergey Denisov, Peter H?nggi
comments: 7 pages. Signs corrected. v3 Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032114 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0671
abstract: An isolated classical chaotic system, when driven by the slow change of several parameters, responds with two reaction forces: geometric friction and geometric magnetism. By using the theory of quantum fluctuation relations we show that this holds true also for open quantum systems, and provide explicit expressions for those forces in this case. This extends the concept of Berry curvature to the realm of open quantum systems. We illustrate our findings by calculating the geometric magnetism of a damped charged quantum harmonic oscillator transported along a path in physical space in presence of a magnetic field and a thermal environment. We find that in this case the geometric magnetism is unaffected by the presence of the heat bath.

id: 1206.0704
title: Coherent optical wavelength conversion via cavity-optomechanics
authors: Jeff T. Hill, Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Jasper Chan, Oskar Painter
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, appendix
journal: Nature Communications 3, 1196 (03 November 2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0704
abstract: We theoretically propose and experimentally demonstrate coherent wavelength conversion of optical photons using photon-phonon translation in a cavity-optomechanical system. For an engineered silicon optomechanical crystal nanocavity supporting a 4 GHz localized phonon mode, optical signals in a 1.5 MHz bandwidth are coherently converted over a 11.2 THz frequency span between one cavity mode at wavelength 1460 nm and a second cavity mode at 1545 nm with a 93% internal (2% external) peak efficiency. The thermal and quantum limiting noise involved in the conversion process is also analyzed, and in terms of an equivalent photon number signal level are found to correspond to an internal noise level of only 6 and 4x10-3 quanta, respectively.

id: 1206.0705
title: A Family of Exact, Analytic Time Dependent Wave Packet Solutions to a Nonlinear Schroedinger Equation
authors: S. Curilef, A. R. Plastino, A. Plastino
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0705
abstract: We obtain time dependent $q$-Gaussian wave-packet solutions to a non linear Schr\"odinger equation recently advanced by Nobre, Rego-Montero and Tsallis (NRT) [Phys. Rev. Lett. 106 (2011) 10601]. The NRT non-linear equation admits plane wave-like solutions ($q$-plane waves) compatible with the celebrated de Broglie relations connecting wave number and frequency, respectively, with energy and momentum. The NRT equation, inspired in the $q$-generalized thermostatistical formalism, is characterized by a parameter $q$, and in the limit $q \to 1$ reduces to the standard, linear Schr\"odinger equation. The $q$-Gaussian solutions to the NRT equation investigated here admit as a particular instance the previously known $q$-plane wave solutions. The present work thus extends the range of possible processes yielded by the NRT dynamics that admit an analytical, exact treatment. In the $q \to 1$ limit the $q$-Gaussian solutions correspond to the Gaussian wave packet solutions to the free particle linear Schr\"odinger equation. In the present work we also show that there are other families of nonlinear Schr\"odinger-like equations, besides the NRT one, exhibiting a dynamics compatible with the de Broglie relations. Remarkably, however, the existence of time dependent Gaussian-like wave packet solutions is a unique feature of the NRT equation not shared by the aforementioned, more general, families of nonlinear evolution equations.

id: 1206.0743
title: Decoherence of Majorana qubits by noisy gates
authors: Manuel J. Schmidt, Diego Rainis, Daniel Loss
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 085414 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0743
abstract: We propose and study a realistic model for the decoherence of topological qubits, based on Majorana fermions in one-dimensional topological superconductors. The source of decoherence is the fluctuating charge on a capacitively coupled gate, modeled by non-interacting electrons. In this context, we clarify the role of quantum fluctuations and thermal fluctuations and find that quantum fluctuations do not lead to decoherence, while thermal fluctuations do. We explicitly calculate decay times due to thermal noise and give conditions for the gap size in the topological superconductor and the gate temperature. Based on this result, we provide simple rules for gate geometries and materials optimized for reducing the negative effect of thermal charge fluctuations on the gate.

id: 1206.0769
title: Coarse-grained spin density-functional theory: infinite-volume limit via the hyperfinite
authors: Paul E. Lammert
comments: corrected non-propagating error in Cor. 4.2 and adopted better methods in Sec. 6B
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0769
abstract: Coarse-grained spin density functional theory (SDFT) is a version of SDFT which works with number/spin densities specified to a limited resolution --- averages over cells of a regular spatial partition --- and external potentials constant on the cells. This coarse-grained setting facilitates a rigorous investigation of the mathematical foundations which goes well beyond what is currently possible in the conventional formualation. Problems of existence, uniqueness and regularity of representing potentials in the coarse-grained SDFT setting are here studied using techniques of (Robinsonian) nonstandard analysis. Every density which is nowhere spin-saturated is V-representable, and the set of representing potentials is the functional derivative, in an appropriate generalized sense, of the Lieb interal energy functional. Quasi-continuity and closure properties of the set-valued representing potentials map are also established. The extent of possible non-uniqueness is similar to that found in non-rigorous studies of the conventional theory, namely non-uniqueness can occur for states of collinear magnetization which are eigenstates of $S_z$.

id: 1206.0815
title: All-Optical Quantum Random Bit Generation from Intrinsically Binary Phase of Parametric Oscillators
authors: Alireza Marandi, Nick C. Leindecker, Konstantin L. Vodopyanov, Robert L. Byer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0815
abstract: True random number generators (RNGs) are desirable for applications ranging from cryptogra- phy to computer simulations. Quantum phenomena prove to be attractive for physical RNGs due to their fundamental randomness and immunity to attack [1]- [5]. Optical parametric down conversion is an essential element in most quantum optical experiments including optical squeezing [9], and generation of entangled photons [10]. In an optical parametric oscillator (OPO), photons generated through spontaneous down conversion of the pump initiate the oscillation in the absence of other inputs [11, 12]. This quantum process is the dominant effect during the oscillation build-up, leading to selection of one of the two possible phase states above threshold in a degenerate OPO [13]. Building on this, we demonstrate a novel all-optical quantum RNG in which the photodetection is not a part of the random process, and no post processing is required for the generated bit sequence. We implement a synchronously pumped twin degenerate OPO, which comprises two identical independent OPOs in a single cavity, and measure the relative phase states of the OPO outputs above threshold as a bit value. We show that the outcome is statistically random with 99% confidence. With the use of micro- and nanoscale OPO resonators, this technique offers a promise for simple, robust, and high-speed on-chip all-optical quantum random number generators.

id: 1206.0841
title: "Meta" relativity: Against special relativity?
authors: Jakub Rembielinski, Marta Wlodarczyk
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0841
abstract: We introduce a Lorentz-covariant description of tachyons, free of inconsistencies. Our approach is based on an appropriate extension of the special relativity beyond the light barrier, owing to the freedom of synchronization of distant clocks.

id: 1206.0845
title: Enhanced backscattering of a dilute Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Guillaume Labeyrie, Tomasz Karpiuk, Jean-Fran?ois Schaff, Beno?t Gr¨¦maud, Christian Miniatura, Dominique Delande
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: EPL 100, 66001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0845
abstract: We study experimentally and numerically the quasi-bidimensional transport of a $^{87}$Rb Bose-Einstein condensate launched with a velocity $v_0$ inside a disordered optical potential created by a speckle pattern. A time-of-flight analysis reveals a pronounced enhanced density peak in the backscattering direction $-v_0$, a feature reminiscent of coherent backscattering. Detailed numerical simulations indicate however that other effects also contribute to this enhancement, including a "backscattering echo" due to the position-momentum correlations of the initial wave packet.

id: 1206.0852
title: Ultrafast spectral diffusion measurement on nitrogen vacancy centers in nanodiamonds using correlation interferometry
authors: Janik Wolters, Nikola Sadzak, Andreas W. Schell, Tim Schr?der, Oliver Benson
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 1 supplementary
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0852
abstract: Spectral diffusion is the phenomenon of random jumps in the emission wavelength of narrow lines. This phenomenon is a major hurdle for applications of solid state quantum emitters like quantum dots, molecules or diamond defect centers in an integrated quantum optical technology. Here, we provide further insight into the underlying processes of spectral diffusion of the zero phonon line of single nitrogen vacancy centers in nanodiamonds by using a novel method based on photon correlation interferometry. The method works although the spectral diffusion rate is several orders of magnitude higher than the photon detection rate and thereby improves the time resolution of previous experiments with nanodiamonds by six orders of magnitude. We study the dependency of the spectral diffusion rate on the excitation power, temperature, and excitation wavelength under off-resonant excitation. Our results suggest a strategy to increase the number of spectrally indistinguishable photons emitted by diamond nanocrystals.

id: 1206.0920
title: A nonlinear dynamics approach to Bogoliubov excitations of Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: M. Kreibich, H. Cartarius, J. Main, G. Wunner
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, Proceedings of the "8th International Summer School/Conference Let's Face Chaos Through Nonlinear Dynamics", CAMTP, University of Maribor, Slovenia, 26 June - 10 July 2011
journal: AIP Conf. Proc., Vol. 1468, pp. 216-222 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0920
abstract: We assume the macroscopic wave function of a Bose-Einstein condensate as a superposition of Gaussian wave packets, with time-dependent complex width parameters, insert it into the mean-field energy functional corresponding to the Gross-Pitaevskii equation (GPE) and apply the time-dependent variational principle. In this way the GPE is mapped onto a system of coupled equations of motion for the complex width parameters, which can be analyzed using the methods of nonlinear dynamics. We perform a stability analysis of the fixed points of the nonlinear system, and demonstrate that the eigenvalues of the Jacobian reproduce the low-lying quantum mechanical Bogoliubov excitation spectrum of a condensate in an axisymmetric trap.

id: 1206.0923
title: Mach's principle and the origin of the quantum phenomenon
authors: Santanu Das
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0923
abstract: Concept of inertial mass is not well defined in physics. For defining inertial mass of a particle we need to know its acceleration under some force in an inertial reference frame, which itself is defined by the motion of its background objects. Therefore, the inertial mass of a particle is not completely its intrinsic property and depends on the position of the particle itself and and all other particles (which we refer as background) in the universe. But the background of a particle keeps on fluctuating randomly due to different physical phenomenon in the universe. Therefore, the exact position or the mass of a particle can not be determined at any time, without having full information about all the other particles in the universe. Hence, in this paper, we define the dynamics of a particle statistically. We show that the fluctuations in the background of an object contributes to an extra energy term in the total energy of the particle. If we treat this extra energy term as the quantum potential then it leads to the Schrodinger equation. Some examples are also given to show how a classical interpretation can be given to some quantum mechanical phenomenon.

id: 1206.0957
title: Quantum dynamics of local phase differences between reservoirs of driven interacting bosons separated by simple aperture arrays
authors: T. J. Volkoff, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures v2: typos corrected, RG phase diagram corrected
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 25, 275602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.0957
abstract: We present a derivation of the effective action for the relative phase of driven, aperture-coupled reservoirs of weakly-interacting condensed bosons from a (3+1)-D microscopic model with local U(1) gauge symmetry. We show that inclusion of local chemical potential and driving velocity fields as a gauge field allows derivation of the hydrodynamic equations of motion for the driven macroscopic phase differences across simple aperture arrays. For a single aperture, the current-phase equation for driven flow contains sinusoidal, linear, and current-bias contributions. We compute the renormalization group (RG) beta function of the periodic potential in the effective action for small tunneling amplitudes and use this to analyze the temperature dependence of the low-energy current-phase relation, with application to the transition from linear to sinusoidal current-phase behavior observed in experiments by Hoskinson et al. \cite{packard} for liquid $^{4}$He driven through nanoaperture arrays. Extension of the microscopic theory to a two-aperture array shows that interference between the microscopic tunneling contributions for individual apertures leads to an effective coupling between apertures which amplifies the Josephson oscillations in the array. The resulting multi-aperture current-phase equations are found to be equivalent to a set of equations for coupled pendula, with microscopically derived couplings.

id: 1206.1013
title: Husimi Maps in Lattices
authors: Douglas J. Mason, Mario F. Borunda, Eric J. Heller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 165421 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1013
abstract: We build upon previous work that used coherent states as a measurement of the local phase space and extended the flux operator by adapting the Husimi projection to produce a vector field called the Husimi map. In this article, we extend its definition from continuous systems to lattices. This requires making several adjustments to incorporate effects such as group velocity and multiple bands. Several phenomena which uniquely occur in lattice systems, like group-velocity warping and internal Bragg diffraction, are explained and demonstrated using Husimi maps. We also show that scattering points between bands and valleys can be identified in the divergence of the Husimi map.

id: 1206.1051
title: Quantum interference-induced stability of repulsively bound pairs of excitations
authors: Lea F. Santos, Mark I. Dykman
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 095019 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1051
abstract: We study the dynamics of two types of pairs of excitations which are bound despite their strong repulsive interaction. One corresponds to doubly occupied sites in one-dimensional Bose-Hubbard systems, the so-called doublons. The other is pairs of neighboring excited spins in anisotropic Heisenberg spin-1/2 chains. We investigate the possibility of decay of the bound pairs due to resonant scattering by a defect or due to collisions of the pairs. We find that the amplitudes of the corresponding transitions are very small. This is a result of destructive quantum interference and explains the stability of the bound pairs.

id: 1206.1062
title: Von Neumann Entropy Spectra and Entangled Excitations in Spin-Orbital Models
authors: Wen-Long You, Andrzej M. Ole?, Peter Horsch
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 094412 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1062
abstract: We consider the low-energy excitations of one-dimensional spin-orbital models which consist of spin waves, orbital waves, and joint spin-orbital excitations. Among the latter we identify strongly entangled spin-orbital bound states which appear as peaks in the von Neumann entropy (vNE) spectral function introduced in this work. The strong entanglement of bound states is manifested by a universal logarithmic scaling of the vNE with system size, while the vNE of other spin-orbital excitations saturates. We suggest that spin-orbital entanglement can be experimentally explored by the measurement of the dynamical spin-orbital correlations using resonant inelastic x-ray scattering, where strong spin-orbit coupling associated with the core hole plays a role.

id: 1206.1067
title: Quench from Mott Insulator to Superfluid
authors: Jacek Dziarmaga, Marek Tylutki, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 10 pages, 13 figures; version published in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 144521 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1067
abstract: We study a linear ramp of the nearest-neighbor tunneling rate in the Bose-Hubbard model driving the system from the Mott insulator state into the superfluid phase. We employ the truncated Wigner approximation to simulate linear quenches of a uniform system in 1,2, and 3 dimensions, and in a harmonic trap in 3 dimensions. In all these setups the excitation energy decays like one over third root of the quench time. The -1/3 scaling arises from an impulse-adiabatic approximation - a variant of the Kibble-Zurek mechanism - describing a crossover from non-adiabatic to adiabatic evolution when the system begins to keep pace with the increasing tunneling rate.

id: 1206.1069
title: Concepts and Their Dynamics: A Quantum-Theoretic Modeling of Human Thought
authors: Diederik Aerts, Liane Gabora, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures
journal: Topics in Cognitive Science, 5, pp. 737-772, 2013
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1069
abstract: We analyze different aspects of our quantum modeling approach of human concepts, and more specifically focus on the quantum effects of contextuality, interference, entanglement and emergence, illustrating how each of them makes its appearance in specific situations of the dynamics of human concepts and their combinations. We point out the relation of our approach, which is based on an ontology of a concept as an entity in a state changing under influence of a context, with the main traditional concept theories, i.e. prototype theory, exemplar theory and theory theory. We ponder about the question why quantum theory performs so well in its modeling of human concepts, and shed light on this question by analyzing the role of complex amplitudes, showing how they allow to describe interference in the statistics of measurement outcomes, while in the traditional theories statistics of outcomes originates in classical probability weights, without the possibility of interference. The relevance of complex numbers, the appearance of entanglement, and the role of Fock space in explaining contextual emergence, all as unique features of the quantum modeling, are explicitly revealed in this paper by analyzing human concepts and their dynamics.

id: 1206.1079
title: An introduction to quantum plasmas
authors: Fernando Haas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1079
abstract: Shielding effects in non-degenerate and degenerate plasmas are compared. A detailed derivation of the Wigner-Poisson system is provided for electrostatic quantum plasmas where relativistic, spin and collisional effects are not essential. Later a detailed derivation of a quantum hydrodynamic model starting from the Wigner-Poisson system is shown. The route for this derivation considers the eikonal decomposition of the one-body wavefunctions of the quantum statistical mixture. The merits and limitations of the resulting quantum hydrodynamic model are discussed.

id: 1206.1085
title: Relativistic Klein-Gordon-Maxwell multistream model for quantum plasmas
authors: F. Haas, B. Eliasson, P. K. Shukla
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1085
abstract: A multistream model for spinless electrons in a relativistic quantum plasma is introduced by means of a suitable fluid-like version of the Klein-Gordon-Maxwell system. The one and two-stream cases are treated in detail. A new linear instability condition for two-stream quantum plasmas is obtained, generalizing the previously known non-relativistic results. In both the one and two-stream cases, steady-state solutions reduce the model to a set of coupled nonlinear ordinary differential equations, which can be numerically solved, yielding a manifold of nonlinear periodic and soliton structures. The validity conditions for the applicability of the model are addressed.

id: 1206.1089
title: Nonlinear low-frequency collisional quantum Buneman instability
authors: F. Haas, A. Bret
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1089
abstract: The Buneman instability occurring when an electron population is drifting with respect to the ions is analyzed in the quantum linear and nonlinear regimes. The one-dimensional low-frequency and collisional model of Shokri and Niknam [Phys. Plasmas, v. 12, p. 062110 (2005)] is revisited introducing the Bohm potential term in the momentum equation. The linear regime is investigated analytically, and quantum effects result in a reduction of the instability. The nonlinear regime is then assessed both numerically and analytically, and pure quantum density oscillations are found to appear during the late evolution of the instability.

id: 1206.1093
title: Variational Method for the Three-Dimensional Many-Electron Dynamics of Semiconductor Quantum Wells
authors: F. Haas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1093
abstract: The three-dimensional nonlinear dynamics of an electron gas in a semiconductor quantum well is analyzed in terms of a self-consistent fluid formulation and a variational approach. Assuming a time-dependent localized profile for the fluid density and appropriated spatial dependences of the scalar potential and fluid velocity, a set of ordinary differential equations is derived. In the radially symmetric case, the prominent features of the associated breathing mode are characterized.

id: 1206.1123
title: A Top-Down Account of Linear Canonical Transforms
authors: Kurt Bernardo Wolf
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 033, 13 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1123
abstract: We contend that what are called Linear Canonical Transforms (LCTs) should be seen as a part of the theory of unitary irreducible representations of the '2+1' Lorentz group. The integral kernel representation found by Collins, Moshinsky and Quesne, and the radial and hyperbolic LCTs introduced thereafter, belong to the discrete and continuous representation series of the Lorentz group in its parabolic subgroup reduction. The reduction by the elliptic and hyperbolic subgroups can also be considered to yield LCTs that act on functions, discrete or continuous in other Hilbert spaces. We gather the summation and integration kernels reported by Basu and Wolf when studiying all discrete, continuous, and mixed representations of the linear group of $2\times 2$ real matrices. We add some comments on why all should be considered canonical.

id: 1206.1140
title: On the intrinsically cyclic nature of space-time in elementary particles
authors: Donatello Dolce
comments: Contribution to the proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Quantum Theory and Symmetries (QTS7), 7-13 August 2011, Prague, Czech Republic. 11 pages, minor corrections
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 343 (2012) 012031
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1140
abstract: We interpret the relativistic quantum behavior of elementary particles in terms of elementary cycles. This represents a generalization of the de Broglie hypothesis of intrinsically "periodic phenomenon", also known as "de Broglie internal clock". Similarly to a "particle in a box" or to a "vibrating string", the constraint of intrinsic periodicity represents a semi-classical quantization condition, with remarkable formal correspondence to ordinary relativistic quantum mechanics. In this formalism the retarded local variations of four-momentum characterizing relativistic interactions can be equivalently expressed in terms of retarded local modulations of de Broglie space-time periodicity, revealing a geometrodynamical nature of gauge interaction.

id: 1206.1180
title: Enhanced quantization on the circle
authors: Joseph Ben Geloun, John R. Klauder
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1180
abstract: We apply the quantization scheme introduced in [arXiv:1204.2870] to a particle on a circle. We find that the quantum action functional restricted to appropriate coherent states can be expressed as the classical action plus $\hbar$-corrections. This result extends the examples presented in the cited paper.

id: 1206.1278
title: Geometrical structure of Laplacian eigenfunctions
authors: Denis S. Grebenkov, Binh-Thanh Nguyen
comments: 70 pages, 22 figures
journal: SIAM Reviews (2013)
subjects: Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1278
abstract: We summarize the properties of eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the Laplace operator in bounded Euclidean domains with Dirichlet, Neumann or Robin boundary condition. We keep the presentation at a level accessible to scientists from various disciplines ranging from mathematics to physics and computer sciences. The main focus is put onto multiple intricate relations between the shape of a domain and the geometrical structure of eigenfunctions.

id: 1206.1280
title: Optical switching of radical pair conformation enhances magnetic sensitivity
authors: Gian Giacomo Guerreschi, Markus Tiersch, Ulrich E. Steiner, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 
journal: Chemical Physics Letters 572, 106-110 (2013)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1280
abstract: The yield of chemical reactions involving intermediate radical pairs is influenced by magnetic fields well beyond the levels expected from energy considerations. This dependence can be traced back to the microscopic dynamics of electron spins and constitutes the basis of the chemical compass. Here we propose a new experimental approach based on molecular photoswitches to achieve additional control on the chemical reaction and to allow short-time resolution of the spin dynamics. Our proposal enables experiments to test some of the standard assumptions of the radical pair model and improves the sensitivity of chemical magnetometers by two orders of magnitude.

id: 1206.1354
title: Quantum Mechanics of Semiconductor Quantum Dots and Rings
authors: I. Filikhin, S. G. Matinyan, B. Vlahovic
comments: 32 pages, 26 figures; This paper is the basis of two talks of Sergei Matinyan presented at the workshop "Low Dimension Systems & Gauge principle" (Yerevan, Tbilisi, 2011)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1354
abstract: We consider the several phenomena which are taking place in Quantum Dots (QD) and Quantum Rings (QR): The connection of the Quantum Chaos (QC) with the reflection symmetry of the QD, Disappearance of the QC in the tunnel coupled chaotic QD, electron localization and transition between Double Concentric QR in the transverse magnetic field, transition of electron from QR to the QD located in the center of QR. Basis of this consideration is the effective Schr\"odinger equation for the corresponding systems.

id: 1206.1361
title: C programs for solving the time-dependent Gross-Pitaevskii equation in a fully anisotropic trap
authors: Dusan Vudragovic, Ivana Vidanovic, Antun Balaz, Paulsamy Muruganandam, Sadhan K. Adhikari
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure; 18 C programs included (to download, click other and download the source)
journal: Comput. Phys. Commun. 183 (2012) 2021
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1361
abstract: We present C programming language versions of earlier published Fortran programs (Muruganandam and Adhikari, Comput. Phys. Commun. 180 (2009) 1888) for calculating both stationary and non-stationary solutions of the time-dependent Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) equation. The GP equation describes the properties of dilute Bose-Einstein condensates at ultra-cold temperatures. C versions of programs use the same algorithms as the Fortran ones, involving real- and imaginary-time propagation based on a split-step Crank-Nicolson method. In a one-space-variable form of the GP equation, we consider the one-dimensional, two-dimensional, circularly-symmetric, and the three-dimensional spherically-symmetric harmonic-oscillator traps. In the two-space-variable form, we consider the GP equation in two-dimensional anisotropic and three-dimensional axially-symmetric traps. The fully-anisotropic three-dimensional GP equation is also considered. In addition to these twelve programs, for six algorithms that involve two and three space variables, we have also developed threaded (OpenMP parallelized) programs, which allow numerical simulations to use all available CPU cores on a computer. All 18 programs are optimized and accompanied by makefiles for several popular C compilers. We present typical results for scalability of threaded codes and demonstrate almost linear speedup obtained with the new programs, allowing a decrease in execution times by an order of magnitude on modern multi-core computers.

id: 1206.1367
title: The non-Abelian Duality Problem
authors: E. Cobanera, G. Ortiz, E. Knill
comments: 5 pages (2 figures) plus Supplemental material
journal: Nuc. Phys. B 877, 574 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1367
abstract: We exploit a new theory of duality transformations to construct dual representations of models incompatible with traditional duality transformations. Hence we obtain a solution to the long-standing problem of non-Abelian dualities that hinges on two key observations: (i) from the point of view of dualities, whether the group of symmetries of a model is or is not Abelian is unimportant, and (ii) the new theory of dualities that we exploit includes traditional duality transformations, but also introduces in a natural way more general transformations.

id: 1206.1462
title: Coherent Control of Floquet-Mode Dressed Plasmon Polaritons
authors: Regine Frank
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 195463 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1462
abstract: We study the coherent properties of plasmon polaritons optically excited on periodic nanostructures. The gold grains are coupled to a single mode photonic waveguide which exhibits a dramatically reduced transmission originating from the derived quantum interference. With a nonequilibrium description of Floquet-dressed polaritons we demonstrate the switching of light transmission through the waveguide due to sheer existence of intraband transitions in gold from right above the Fermi level driven by the external laser light.

id: 1206.1495
title: On Calculation of Amplitudes in Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Kostyantyn Karplyuk, Oleksandr Zhmudsky
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1495
abstract: A new method of calculation of amplitudes of different processes in quantum electrodynamics is proposed. The method does not use the Feynman technique of trace of product of matrices calculation. The method strongly simplifies calculation of cross sections for different processes. The effectiveness of the method is shown on the cross-section calculation of Coulomb scattering, Compton scattering and electron-positron annihilation.

id: 1206.1561
title: Universal recovery of the bright-exciton level-degeneracy in quantum dots without structural symmetry
authors: R. Trotta, E. Zallo, C. Ortix, P. Atkinson, J. D. Plumhof, J. van den Brink, A. Rastelli, O. G. Schmidt
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1561
abstract: The lack of structural symmetry which usually characterizes semiconductor quantum dots lifts the energetic degeneracy of the bright excitonic states and hampers severely their use as high fidelity sources of entangled photons. We demonstrate experimentally and theoretically that it is always possible to restore the excitonic degeneracy by the simultaneous application of large strain and electric fields, despite the fact that this possibility has fundamentally been doubted. This is achieved by using one external perturbation to align the polarization of the exciton emission along the axis of the second perturbation, which then erases completely the energy splitting of the states. This result, which holds for any QD structure, highlights the potential of combining complementary external fields to create artificial atoms meeting the stringent requirements posed by scalable semiconductor-based quantum-technology.

id: 1206.1569
title: Atom-dimer p-wave resonance for fermionic mixtures with different masses
authors: R. Combescot, X. Leyronas
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1569
abstract: We show that, near a Feshbach resonance, a strong p-wave resonance is present at low energy in atom-dimer scattering for $^6$Li-$^{40}$K fermionic mixtures. This resonance is due to a virtual bound state, in the atom-dimer system, which is present at this low energy. When the mass ratio between the two fermionic elements is increased, this virtual bound state goes to a known real bound state which appears when the mass ratio reaches 8.17. This resonance should affect a number of physical properties. These include the equation of state of unbalanced mixtures at very low temperature but also the equation of state of balanced mixtures at moderate or high temperature. The frequency and the damping of collective modes should also provide a convenient way to evidence this resonance. Finally it should be possible to modify the effective mass of one the fermionic species by making use of an optical lattice. This would allow to study the strong dependence of the resonance as a function of the mass ratio of the two fermionic elements.

id: 1206.1573
title: Electron spin resonance of nitrogen-vacancy centers in optically trapped nanodiamonds
authors: Viva R. Horowitz, Benjam¨ªn J. Alem¨¢n, David J. Christle, Andrew N. Cleland, David D. Awschalom
comments: 29 pages, 13 figures for manuscript and supporting information
journal: PNAS 109, 13493 (2012)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1573
abstract: Using an optical tweezers apparatus, we demonstrate three-dimensional control of nanodiamonds in solution with simultaneous readout of ground-state electron-spin resonance (ESR) transitions in an ensemble of diamond nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers. Despite the motion and random orientation of NV centers suspended in the optical trap, we observe distinct peaks in the measured ESR spectra qualitatively similar to the same measurement in bulk. Accounting for the random dynamics, we model the ESR spectra observed in an externally applied magnetic field to enable d.c. magnetometry in solution. We estimate the d.c. magnetic field sensitivity based on variations in ESR line shapes to be ~50 microTesla/Hz^1/2. This technique may provide a pathway for spin-based magnetic, electric, and thermal sensing in fluidic environments and biophysical systems inaccessible to existing scanning probe techniques.

id: 1206.1581
title: Magneto-Josephson effects in junctions with Majorana bound states
authors: Liang Jiang, David Pekker, Jason Alicea, Gil Refael, Yuval Oreg, Arne Brataas, Felix von Oppen
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 075438 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1581
abstract: We investigate 1D quantum systems that support Majorana bound states at interfaces between topologically distinct regions. In particular, we show that there exists a duality between particle-hole and spin degrees of freedom in certain spin-orbit-coupled 1D platforms such as topological insulator edges. This duality results in a spin analogue of previously explored `fractional Josephson effects'---that is, the spin current flowing across a magnetic junction exhibits 4\pi-periodicity in the relative magnetic field angle across the junction. Furthermore, the interplay between the particle-hole and spin degrees of freedom results in unconventional magneto-Josephson effects, such that the Josephson current is a function of the magnetic field orientation with periodicity 4\pi.

id: 1206.1606
title: Particle-wave duality in quantum tunneling of a bright soliton
authors: Ching-Hao Wang, Tzay-Ming Hong, Ray-Kuang Lee, Daw-Wei Wang
comments: 4 pages with 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1606
abstract: One of the most fundamental difference between classical and quantum mechanics is observed in the particle tunneling through a localized potential: the former predicts a discontinuous transmission coefficient ($T$) as a function in incident velocity between one (complete penetration) and zero (complete reflection), while the later always changes smoothly as a wave nature. Here we report a systematic study of the quantum tunneling property for a bright soliton in ultracold atoms, which behaves as a classical particle (matter wave) in the limit of small (large) incident velocity. In the intermediate regime, the classical and quantum properties are combined via a finite (but not full) discontinuity in the tunneling transmission coefficient. We demonstrate that the formation of a localized bound state is essential to describe such inelastic collisions, showing a nontrivial nonlinear effect on the quantum transportation of a bright soliton.

id: 1206.1641
title: Excitation and emission spectra of rubidium in rare-gas thin-films
authors: Ilja Gerhardt, Brian Sin, Takamasa Momose
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 014507 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1641
abstract: To understand the optical properties of atoms in solid state matrices, the absorption, excitation and emission spectra of rubidium doped thin-films of argon, krypton and xenon were investigated in detail. A two-dimensional spectral analysis extends earlier reports on the excitation and emission properties of rubidium in rare-gas hosts. We found that the doped crystals of krypton and xenon exhibit a simple absorption-emission relation, whereas rubidium in argon showed more complicated spectral structures. Our sample preparation employed in the present work yielded different results for the Ar crystal, but our peak positions were consistent with the prediction based on the linear extrapolation of Xe and Kr data. We also observed a bleaching behavior in rubidium excitation spectra, which suggests a population transfer from one to another spectral feature due to hole-burning. The observed optical response implies that rubidium in rare-gas thin-films is detectable with extremely high sensitivity, possibly down to a single atom level, in low concentration samples.

id: 1206.1668
title: On the angular momentum of photons: effects of transversality condition on the quantization of radiation fields
authors: Chun-Fang Li
comments: 18 pages and 29 references
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1668
abstract: The notion of intrinsic system of coordinates is introduced for the photon from the constraint of transversality condition. The degree of freedom to specify the intrinsic system is extracted from the same constraint, which turns out to be responsible for the spin Hall effect of light. It is shown that the fundamental quantization conditions that break down in the laboratory system of coordinates restore in the intrinsic system, which make it realizable to canonically quantize the radiation field. It is also shown that the dependence of the intrinsic system on the momentum underlies the noncommutativity of photon position in the laboratory system. The commutation relations of the spin and orbital angular momentum that were found by van Enk and Nienhuis [J. Mod. Opt. \textbf{41}, 963 (1994)] in a second quantized theory are re-derived in the present first quantized theory.

id: 1206.1736
title: Introduction to topological superconductivity and Majorana fermions
authors: Martin Leijnse, Karsten Flensberg
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: Semicond. Sci. Technol. 27, 124003 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1736
abstract: This short review article provides a pedagogical introduction to the rapidly growing research field of Majorana fermions in topological superconductors. We first discuss in some details the simplest "toy model" in which Majoranas appear, namely a one-dimensional tight-binding representation of a p-wave superconductor, introduced more than ten years ago by Kitaev. We then give a general introduction to the remarkable properties of Majorana fermions in condensed matter systems, such as their intrinsically non-local nature and exotic exchange statistics, and explain why these quasiparticles are suspected to be especially well suited for low-decoherence quantum information processing. We also discuss the experimentally promising (and perhaps already successfully realized) possibility of creating topological superconductors using semiconductors with strong spin-orbit coupling, proximity-coupled to standard s-wave superconductors and exposed to a magnetic field. The goal is to provide an introduction to the subject for experimentalists or theorists who are new to the field, focusing on the aspects which are most important for understanding the basic physics. The text should be accessible for readers with a basic understanding of quantum mechanics and second quantization, and does not require knowledge of quantum field theory or topological states of matter.

id: 1206.1776
title: Husimi Maps in Graphene
authors: Douglas J. Mason, Mario F. Borunda, Eric J. Heller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1776
abstract: We present a method for bridging the gap between the Dirac effective field theory and atomistic simulations in graphene based on the Husimi projection, allowing us to depict phenomena in graphene at arbitrary scales. This technique takes the atomistic wavefunction as an input, and produces semiclassical pictures of quasiparticles in the two Dirac valleys. We use the Husimi tech- nique to produce maps of the scattering behavior of boundaries, giving insight into the properties of wavefunctions at energies both close to and far from the Dirac point. Boundary conditions play a significant role to the rise of Fano resonances, which we examine using the Husimi map to deepen our understanding of bond currents near resonance.

id: 1206.1854
title: Fractals, coherent states and self-similarity induced noncommutative geometry
authors: Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 376, 2527 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1854
abstract: The self-similarity properties of fractals are studied in the framework of the theory of entire analytical functions and the $q$-deformed algebra of coherent states. Self-similar structures are related to dissipation and to noncommutative geometry in the plane. The examples of the Koch curve and logarithmic spiral are considered in detail. It is suggested that the dynamical formation of fractals originates from the coherent boson condensation induced by the generators of the squeezed coherent states, whose (fractal) geometrical properties thus become manifest. The macroscopic nature of fractals appears to emerge from microscopic coherent local deformation processes.

id: 1206.1935
title: Reachability and Termination Analysis of Concurrent Quantum Programs
authors: Nengkun Yu, Mingsheng Ying
comments: Accepted by Concur'12. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1935
abstract: We introduce a Markov chain model of concurrent quantum programs. This model is a quantum generalization of Hart, Sharir and Pnueli's probabilistic concurrent programs. Some characterizations of the reachable space, uniformly repeatedly reachable space and termination of a concurrent quantum program are derived by the analysis of their mathematical structures. Based on these characterizations, algorithms for computing the reachable space and uniformly repeatedly reachable space and for deciding the termination are given.

id: 1206.1986
title: Discrete Morse functions for graph configuration spaces
authors: Adam Sawicki
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Topology (math.AT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.1986
abstract: We present an alternative application of discrete Morse theory for two-particle graph configuration spaces. In contrast to previous constructions, which are based on discrete Morse vector fields, our approach is through Morse functions, which have a nice physical interpretation as two-body potentials constructed from one-body potentials. We also give a brief introduction to discrete Morse theory. Our motivation comes from the problem of quantum statistics for particles on networks, for which generalized versions of anyon statistics can appear.

id: 1206.2047
title: Quantum renormalization group approach to geometric phases in spin chains
authors: R. Jafari
comments: Accepted by Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377, 3279 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2047
abstract: A relation between geometric phases and criticality of spin chains are studied by using the quantum renormalization-group approach. We have shown how the geometric phase evolve as the size of the system becomes large, i.e., the finite size scaling is obtained. The renormalization scheme demonstrates how the first derivative of the geometric phase with respect to the field strength diverges at the critical point and maximum value of the first derivative and its position scales with an exponent of the system size. This exponent is directly associated with the critical properties of the model where, the exponent governing the divergence of the correlation length close to the quantum critical point.

id: 1206.2049
title: Derivative expansion for the Casimir effect at zero and finite temperature in $d+1$ dimensions
authors: C. D. Fosco, F. C. Lombardo, F. D. Mazzitelli
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2049
abstract: We apply the derivative expansion approach to the Casimir effect for a real scalar field in $d$ spatial dimensions, to calculate the next to leading order term in that expansion, namely, the first correction to the proximity force approximation. The field satisfies either Dirichlet or Neumann boundary conditions on two static mirrors, one of them flat and the other gently curved. We show that, for Dirichlet boundary conditions, the next to leading order term in the Casimir energy is of quadratic order in derivatives, regardless of the number of dimensions. Therefore it is local, and determined by a single coefficient. We show that the same holds true, if $d \neq 2$, for a field which satisfies Neumann conditions. When $d=2$, the next to leading order term becomes nonlocal in coordinate space, a manifestation of the existence of a gapless excitation (which do exist also for $d> 2$, but produce sub-leading terms). We also consider a derivative expansion approach including thermal fluctuations of the scalar field. We show that, for Dirichlet mirrors, the next to leading order term in the free energy is also local for any temperature $T$. Besides, it interpolates between the proper limits: when $T \to 0$ it tends to the one we had calculated for the Casimir energy in $d$ dimensions, while for $T \to \infty$ it corresponds to the one for a theory in $d-1$ dimensions, because of the expected dimensional reduction at high temperatures. For Neumann mirrors in $d=3$, we find a nonlocal next to leading order term for any $T>0$.

id: 1206.2077
title: Probing Lee-Yang zeros and coherence sudden death
authors: Bo-Bo Wei, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 185701 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2077
abstract: As a foundation of statistical physics, Lee and Yang in 1952 proved that the partition functions of thermal systems can be zero at certain points (called Lee-Yang zeros) on the complex plane of temperature. In the thermodynamic limit, the Lee-Yang zeros approach to real numbers at the critical temperature. However, the imaginary Lee-Yang zeros have not been regarded as experimentally observable since they occur at imaginary field or temperature, which are unphysical. Here we show that the coherence of a probe spin weakly coupled to a many-body system presents zeros as a function of time that are one-to-one mapped to the Lee-Yang zeros of the many-body system. In the thermodynamic limit, of which the Lee-Yang zeros form a continuum, the probe spin coherence presents a sudden death at the edge singularities of the Lee-Yang zeros. By measuring the probe spin coherence, one can directly reconstruct the partition function of a many-body system. These discoveries establish a profound relation between two most fundamental quantities in the physical world, time and temperature, and also provide a universal approach to studying interacting many-body systems through measuring coherence of only one probe spin (or one qubit in quantum computing).

id: 1206.2099
title: Optimized optomechanical crystal cavity with acoustic radiation shield
authors: Jasper Chan, Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Jeff T. Hill, Sean Meenehan, Oskar Painter
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 101, 081115 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2099
abstract: We present the design of an optomechanical crystal nanobeam cavity that combines finite-element simulation with numerical optimization, and considers the optomechanical coupling arising from both moving dielectric boundaries and the photo-elastic effect. Applying this methodology results in a nanobeam with an experimentally realized intrinsic optical Q-factor of 1.2x10^6, a mechanical frequency of 5.1GHz, a mechanical Q-factor of 6.8x10^5 (at T=10K), and a zero-point-motion optomechanical coupling rate of g=1.1MHz.

id: 1206.2105
title: Black holes and qubits
authors: M. J. Duff
comments: Talk delivered at the Pontifical Academy of Sciences Symposium on Subnuclear Physics, Vatican City, October 2011
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2105
abstract: Quantum entanglement lies at the heart of quantum information theory, with applications to quantum computing, teleportation, cryptography and communication. In the apparently separate world of quantum gravity, the Hawking effect of radiating black holes has also occupied centre stage. Despite their apparent differences, it turns out that there is a correspondence between the two.

id: 1206.2131
title: On hybrid models of quantum finite automata
authors: Lvzhou Li, Yuan Feng
comments: The paper has been revised such that it is more concise and has a better structure. All comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2131
abstract: In the literature, there exist several quantum finite automata (QFA) models with both quantum and classical states. These models are of particular interest,as they show praiseworthy advantages over the fully quantum models in some nontrivial aspects. This paper characterizes these models in a uniform framework by proposing a general hybrid model consisting of a quantum component and a classical one which can interact with each other. The existing hybrid QFA can be naturally regarded as the general model with specific communication patterns (classical-quantum, quantum-classical, and two-way, respectively). We further clarify the relationship between these hybrid QFA and some other quantum models. In particular, it is shown that hybrid QFA can be simulated exactly by QFA with quantum operations, which in turn has a close relationship with two early proposed models: {\it ancialla QFA} and {\it quantum sequential machines}.

id: 1206.2174
title: Decoherence of a qubit due to a quantum fluctuator or to a classical telegraph noise
authors: Henry J. Wold, H?kon Brox, Yuri M. Galperin, Joakim Bergli
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2174
abstract: We investigate the decoherence of a qubit coupled to either a quantum two-level system (TLS) again coupled to an environment, or a classical fluctuator modeled by random telegraph noise. In order to do this we construct a model for the quantum TLS where we can adjust the temperature of its environment, and the decoherence rate independently. The model has a well-defined classical limit at any temperature and this corresponds to the appropriate random telegraph process, which is symmetric at high temperatures and becomes asymmetric at low temperatures. We find that the difference in the qubit decoherence rates predicted by the two models depends on the ratio between the qubit-TLS coupling and the decoherence rate in the pointer basis of the TLS. This is then the relevant parameter which determines whether the TLS has to be treated quantum mechanically or can be replaced by a classical telegraph process. We also compare the mutual information between the qubit and the TLS in the classical and quantum cases.

id: 1206.2200
title: Damping and decoherence of Fock states in a nanomechanical resonator due to two level systems
authors: Laura G. Remus, Miles P. Blencowe
comments: 28 pages, 24 figures; submitted to Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 205419 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2200
abstract: We numerically investigate the decay of initial quantum Fock states and their superpositions for a mechanical resonator mode coupled to an environment comprising interacting, damped tunneling two level system (TLS) defects. The cases of one, three, and six near resonant, interacting TLS's are considered in turn and it is found that the resonator displays Ohmic bath like decay behavior with as few as three TLS's.

id: 1206.2234
title: Spin in Density-Functional Theory
authors: Christoph R. Jacob, Markus Reiher
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Quantum Chem. 112, 3661-3684 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2234
abstract: The accurate description of open-shell molecules, in particular of transition metal complexes and clusters, is still an important challenge for quantum chemistry. While density-functional theory (DFT) is widely applied in this area, the sometimes severe limitations of its currently available approximate realizations often preclude its application as a predictive theory. Here, we review the foundations of DFT applied to open-shell systems, both within the nonrelativistic and the relativistic framework. In particular, we provide an in-depth discussion of the exact theory, with a focus on the role of the spin density and possibilities for targeting specific spin states. It turns out that different options exist for setting up Kohn-Sham DFT schemes for open-shell systems, which imply different definitions of the exchange-correlation energy functional and lead to different exact conditions on this functional. Finally, we suggest some possible directions for future developments.

id: 1206.2244
title: Peculiarities of dynamics of Dirac fermions associated with zero-mass lines
authors: Timur Tudorovskiy, Mikhail I. Katsnelson
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. In the second version some references were added and minor changes were made in the introduction
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2244
abstract: Zero-mass lines result in appearance of linear dispersion modes for Dirac fermions. These modes play an important role in various physical systems. However, a Dirac fermion may not precisely follow a single zero-mass line, due to either tunneling between different lines or centrifugal forces. Being shifted from a zero-mass line the Dirac fermion acquires mass which can substantially influence its expected "massless" behavior. In the paper we calculate the energy gap caused by the tunneling between two zero-mass lines and show that its opening leads to the delocalization of linear dispersion modes. The adiabatic bending of a zero-mass line gives rise to geometric phases. These are the Berry phase, locally associated with a curvature, and a new phase resulting from the mass square asymmetry in the vicinity of a zero-mass line.

id: 1206.2274
title: Efimov Physics and the Three-Body Parameter within a Two-Channel Framework
authors: P. K. S?rensen, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, 1 appendix, accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052516 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2274
abstract: We calculate shallow three-body bound states in the universal regime, defined by Efimov, with inclusion of both scattering length and effective range parameters. The universal spectrum is recovered for the least bound states, whereas for larger binding energies we find corrections to the universal scaling laws. We recover known results for broad Feshbach resonances with small effective range, whereas in the case of narrow resonances we find a distinct non-monotonic behavior of the threshold at which the lowest Efimov trimer merges with the three-body continuum. To address the issue of the physical origin of the three-body parameter we provide a physically clear model for the relation between three-body physics and typical two-body atom-atom interactions. Our results demonstrate that experimental information from narrow Feshbach resonances and/or mixed systems are of vital importance to pin down the relation of two- and three-body physics in atomic systems.

id: 1206.2324
title: Scaling in Dynamic Susceptibility of Herbertsmithite and Heavy-Fermion Metals
authors: V. R. Shaginyan, A. Z. Msezane, K. G. Popov, V. A. Khodel
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, minor improvements, published version
journal: Physics Letters A 376 (2012) 2622
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2324
abstract: We present a theory of the dynamic magnetic susceptibility of quantum spin liquid. The obtained results are in good agreement with experimental facts collected on herbertsmithite ZnCu3(OH)6Cl2 and on heavy-fermion metals, and allow us to predict a new scaling in magnetic fields in the dynamic susceptibility. Under the application of strong magnetic fields quantum spin liquid becomes completely polarized. We show that this polarization can be viewed as a manifestation of gapped excitations when investigating the spin-lattice relaxation rate.

id: 1206.2394
title: Photon and spin dependence of the resonance lines shape in the strong coupling regime
authors: S. Miyashita, T. Shirai, T. Mori, H. De Raedt, S. Bertaina, I. Chiorescu
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 124010
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2394
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a spin ensemble coupled to cavity photons. Recently, related experimental results have been reported, showing the existence of the strong coupling regime in such systems. We study the eigenenergy distribution of the multi-spin system (following the Tavis-Cummings model) which shows a peculiar structure as a function of the number of cavity photons and of spins. We study how this structure causes changes in the spectrum of the admittance in the linear response theory, and also the frequency dependence of the excited quantities in the stationary state under a probing field. In particular, we investigate how the structure of the higher excited energy levels changes the spectrum from a double-peak structure (the so-called vacuum field Rabi splitting) to a single peak structure. We also point out that the spin dynamics in the region of the double-peak structure corresponds to recent experiments using cavity ringing while in region of the single peak structure, it corresponds to the coherent Rabi oscillation in a driving electromagnetic filed. Using a standard Lindblad type mechanism, we study the effect of dissipations on the line width and separation in the computed spectra. In particular, we study the relaxation of the total spin in the general case of a spin ensemble in which the total spin of the system is not specified. The theoretical results are correlated with experimental evidence of the strong coupling regime, achieved with a spin 1/2 ensemble.

id: 1206.2399
title: Feedback-controlled laser fabrication of micromirror substrates
authors: Benjamin Petrak, Kumarasiri Konthasinghe, Sonia Perez, Andreas Muller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2399
abstract: Short (40-200 microseconds) single focused CO2 laser pulses of energy of about 100 microJ were used to fabricate high quality concave micromirror templates on silica and fluoride glass. The ablated features have diameters of 20-100 microns and average root-mean-square (RMS) surface microroughness near their center of less than 0.2 nm. Temporally monitoring the fabrication process revealed that it proceeds on a time scale shorter than the laser pulse duration. We implement a fast feedback control loop (20 kHz bandwidth) based on the light emitted by the sample that ensures an RMS size dispersion of less than 5 percent in arrays on chips or in individually fabricated features on an optical fiber tip, a significant improvement over previous approaches using longer pulses and open loop operation.

id: 1206.2408
title: Towards equilibration and thermalization between finite quantum systems: The role of dephasing effects and inelastic interactions
authors: Manas Kulkarni, Kunal L. Tiwari, Dvira Segal
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 155424 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2408
abstract: We demonstrate the approach towards a Gibbs-like equilibrium state, with a common temperature and a chemical potential, of two finite metallic grains, prepared with a different number of noninteracting electrons, connected by a weak link that is susceptible to incoherent and inelastic processes. By developing an analytic method and by using an exact numerical approach, the quantum time evolution of the electrons in the metallic grains is followed. In the absence of decoherring and inelastic effects, equilibration is never reached. Introducing dephasing effects on the link only, using a dephasing probe, the two quantum systems equilibrate, but do not evolve towards a Gibbs-like state. In contrast, by mimicking inelastic interactions with a voltage probe, the metal pieces evolve towards a common Gibbs-like equilibrium state, with the probe.

id: 1206.2441
title: Delocalised oxygen as the origin of two-level defects in Josephson junctions
authors: Timothy C. DuBois, Manolo C. Per, Salvy P. Russo, Jared H. Cole
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. This version streamlines presentation and focuses on the 2D model. Also fixed embarrassing typo (pF -> fF)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2441
abstract: One of the key problems facing superconducting qubits and other Josephson junction devices is the decohering effects of bi-stable material defects. Although a variety of phenomenological models exist, the true microscopic origin of these defects remains elusive. For the first time we show that these defects may arise from delocalisation of the atomic position of the oxygen in the oxide forming the Josephson junction barrier. Using a microscopic model, we compute experimentally observable parameters for phase qubits. Such defects are charge neutral but have non-zero response to both applied electric field and strain. This may explain the observed long coherence time of two-level defects in the presence of charge noise, while still coupling to the junction electric field and substrate phonons.

id: 1206.2455
title: Using hybrid topological-spin qubit systems for two-qubit-spin gates
authors: Martin Leijnse, Karsten Flensberg
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 104511 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2455
abstract: We investigate a hybrid quantum system involving spin qubits, based on the spins of electrons confined in quantum dots, and topological qubits, based on Majorana fermions. In such a system, gated control of the charge on the quantum dots allows transfer of quantum information between the spin and topological qubits, and the topological system can be used to facilitate transfer of spin qubits between spatially separated quantum dots and to initialize entangled spin-qubit pairs. Here, we show that the coupling to the topological system also makes it possible to perform entangling two-qubit gates on spatially separated spin qubits. The two-qubit gates are based on a combination of topologically protected braiding operations, gate-controlled charge transfer between the dots and edge Majorana modes, and measurements of the state of the topological qubits.

id: 1206.2462
title: On topological phases of spin chains
authors: Kasper Duivenvoorden, Thomas Quella
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables. Version v2 corresponds to the published version. It includes minor revisions, additional references and an application to cold atom systems
journal: Phys. Rev. B87 (2013) 125145
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2462
abstract: Symmetry protected topological phases of one-dimensional spin systems have been classified using group cohomology. In this paper, we revisit this problem for general spin chains which are invariant under a continuous on-site symmetry group G. We evaluate the relevant cohomology groups and find that the topological phases are in one-to-one correspondence with the elements of the fundamental group of G if G is compact, simple and connected and if no additional symmetries are imposed. For spin chains with symmetry PSU(N)=SU(N)/Z_N our analysis implies the existence of N distinct topological phases. For symmetry groups of orthogonal, symplectic or exceptional type we find up to four different phases. Our work suggests a natural generalization of Haldane's conjecture beyond SU(2).

id: 1206.2507
title: Complementarity and phases in SU(3)
authors: H. de Guise, A. Vourdas, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: Published as part of a special issue on coherent states
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 244030
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2507
abstract: Phase operators and phase states are introduced for irreducible representations of the Lie algebra su(3) using a polar decomposition of ladder operators. In contradistinction with su(2), it is found that the su(3) polar decomposition does not uniquely determine a Hermitian phase operator. We describe two possible ways of proceeding: one based in imposing SU(2) invariance and the other based on the idea of complementarity. The generalization of these results to SU(n) is sketched.

id: 1206.2513
title: Aspects of the Coarse-Grained-Based Approach to a Low-Relativistic Fractional Schr?dinger Equation
authors: J. Weberszpil, C. F. L. Godinho, A. Cherman, J. A. Helay?l-Neto
comments: 16 pages. to be submitted. Corrected
journal: In: 7th Conference Mathematical Methods in Physics - ICMP 2012, Rio de Janeiro. Proceedings of Science (PoS). Trieste, Italia: SISSA p. 1-19 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2513
abstract: The main goal of this paper is to set up the coarse-grained formulation of a fractional Schr\"odinger equation that incorporates a higher (spatial) derivative term which accounts for relativistic effects at a lowest order. The corresponding continuity equation is worked out and we also identify the contribution of the relativistic correction the quantum potential in the coarse-grained treatment. As a consequence, in the classical regime, we derive the sort of fractional Newtonian law with the quantum potential included and the fractional conterparts of the De Broglies's energy and momentum relations.

id: 1206.2524
title: Quantum transport in quantum networks and photosynthetic complexes at the steady state
authors: Daniel Manzano
comments: 10 pages, single column, 6 figures. Accepted for publication in Plos One
journal: PLoS ONE 8(2): e57041 (2013)
subjects: Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2524
abstract: Recently, several works have analysed the efficiency of photosynthetic complexes in a transient scenario and how that efficiency is affected by environmental noise. Here, following a quantum master equation approach, we study the energy and excitation transport in fully connected networks both in general and in the particular case of the Fenna-Matthew-Olson complex. The analysis is carried out for the steady state of the system where the excitation energy is constantly "flowing" through the system. Steady state transport scenarios are particularly relevant if the evolution of the quantum system is not conditioned on the arrival of individual excitations. By adding dephasing to the system, we analyse the possibility of noise-enhancement of the quantum transport.

id: 1206.2551
title: Correlation between Quantum Conductance and Atomic Arrangement of Silver Atomic-Size Nanowires
authors: M. J. Lagos, P. A. S. Autreto, D. S. Galvao, D. Ugarte
comments: Accepted by Journal of Applied Physics (JAP); Journal of Applied Physics, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2551
abstract: We have studied the effect of thermal effects on the structural and transport response of Ag atomic-size nanowires generated by mechanical elongation. Our study involves both time-resolved atomic resolution transmission electron microscopy imaging and quantum conductance measurement using an ultra-high-vacuum mechanically controllable break junction. We have observed drastic changes in conductance and structural properties of Ag nanowires generated at different temperatures (150 and 300 K). By combining electron microscopy images, electronic transport measurements and quantum transport calculations, we have been able to obtain a consistent correlation between the conductance and structural properties of Ag NWs. In particular, our study has revealed the formation of metastable rectangular rod-like Ag wire (3/3) along the (001) crystallographic direction, whose formation is enhanced. These results illustrate the high complexity of analyzing structural and quantum conductance behaviour of metal atomic-size wires; also, they reveal that it is extremely difficult to compare NW conductance experiments performed at different temperatures due to the fundamental modifications of the mechanical behavior.

id: 1206.2566
title: The Boson-Hubbard Model on a Kagome Lattice with Sextic Ring-Exchange Terms
authors: Val¨¦ry Rousseau, Ka-Ming Tam, Mark Jarrell, Juana Moreno
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 075146 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2566
abstract: High order ring-exchange interactions are crucial for the study of quantum fluctuations on highly frustrated systems. We present the first exact quantum Monte Carlo study of a model of hard-core bosons with sixth order ring-exchange interactions on a two-dimensional kagome lattice. By using the Stochastic Green Function algorithm, we show that the system becomes unstable in the limit of large ring-exchange interactions. It undergoes a phase separation at all fillings, except at 1/3 and 2/3 fillings for which the superfluid density vanishes and an unusual mixed valence bond and charge density ordered solid is formed.

id: 1206.2573
title: Superradiance-like Electron Transport through a Quantum Dot
authors: Martin J. A. Schuetz, Eric M. Kessler, J. Ignacio Cirac, Geza Giedke
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures
journal: Physical Review B 86, 085322 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2573
abstract: We theoretically show that intriguing features of coherent many-body physics can be observed in electron transport through a quantum dot (QD). We first derive a master equation based framework for electron transport in the Coulomb-blockade regime which includes hyperfine (HF) interaction with the nuclear spin ensemble in the QD. This general tool is then used to study the leakage current through a single QD in a transport setting. We find that, for an initially polarized nuclear system, the proposed setup leads to a strong current peak, in close analogy with superradiant emission of photons from atomic ensembles. This effect could be observed with realistic experimental parameters and would provide clear evidence of coherent HF dynamics of nuclear spin ensembles in QDs.

id: 1206.2593
title: Matter-enhanced transition probabilities in quantum field theory
authors: Kenzo Ishikawa, Yutaka Tobita
comments: 96 pages, 23 figures, title changed, previous parts I and II (1209.5586) combined again, published version in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals Phys. 344 (2014) 118-178
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2593
abstract: The relativistic quantum field theory is the unique theory that combines the relativity and quantum theory and is invariant under the Poincar\'e transformation. The ground state, vacuum, is singlet and one particle states are transformed as elements of irreducible representation of the group. The covariant one particles are momentum eigenstates expressed by plane waves and extended in space. Although the S-matrix defined with initial and final states of these states hold the symmetries and are applied to isolated states, out-going states for the amplitude of the event that they are detected at a finite-time interval T in experiments are expressed by microscopic states that they interact with, and are surrounded by matters in detectors and are not plane waves. These matter-induced effects modify the probabilities observed in realistic situations. The transition amplitudes and probabilities of the events are studied with the S-matrix, $S[\text T]$, that satisfies the boundary condition at T. Using $S[\text T]$, the finite-size corrections of the form of ${1/\text T}$ are found. The corrections to the Fermi's golden rule become larger than the original values in some situations for light particles. They break Lorentz invariance even in high energy region of short de Broglie wave lengths.

id: 1206.2630
title: Form factor approach to dynamical correlation functions in critical models
authors: N. Kitanine, K. K. Kozlowski, J. M. Maillet, N. A. Slavnov, V. Terras
comments: 33 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2630
abstract: We develop a form factor approach to the study of dynamical correlation functions of quantum integrable models in the critical regime. As an example, we consider the quantum non-linear Schr\"odinger model. We derive long-distance/long-time asymptotic behavior of various two-point functions of this model. We also compute edge exponents and amplitudes characterizing the power-law behavior of dynamical response functions on the particle/hole excitation thresholds. These last results confirm predictions based on the non-linear Luttinger liquid method. Our results rely on a first principles derivation, based on the microscopic analysis of the model, without invoking, at any stage, some correspondence with a continuous field theory. Furthermore, our approach only makes use of certain general properties of the model, so that it should be applicable, with possibly minor modifications, to a wide class of (not necessarily integrable) gapless one dimensional Hamiltonians.

id: 1206.2707
title: The equilibrium states of open quantum systems in the strong coupling regime
authors: Y. Subasi, C. H. Fleming, J. M. Taylor, B. L. Hu
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 061132 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2707
abstract: In this work we investigate the late-time stationary states of open quantum systems coupled to a thermal reservoir in the strong coupling regime. In general such systems do not necessarily relax to a Boltzmann distribution if the coupling to the thermal reservoir is non-vanishing or equivalently if the relaxation timescales are finite. Using a variety of non-equilibrium formalisms valid for non-Markovian processes, we show that starting from a product state of the closed system = system + environment, with the environment in its thermal state, the open system which results from coarse graining the environment will evolve towards an equilibrium state at late-times. This state can be expressed as the reduced state of the closed system thermal state at the temperature of the environment. For a linear (harmonic) system and environment, which is exactly solvable, we are able to show in a rigorous way that all multi-time correlations of the open system evolve towards those of the closed system thermal state. Multi-time correlations are especially relevant in the non-Markovian regime, since they cannot be generated by the dynamics of the single-time correlations. For more general systems, which cannot be exactly solved, we are able to provide a general proof that all single-time correlations of the open system evolve to those of the closed system thermal state, to first order in the relaxation rates. For the special case of a zero-temperature reservoir, we are able to explicitly construct the reduced closed system thermal state in terms of the environmental correlations.

id: 1206.2869
title: Semiclassical theory of potential scattering for massless Dirac fermions
authors: K. J. A. Reijnders, T. Tudorovskiy, M. I. Katsnelson
comments: Minor revision; several references have been added
journal: Annals of Physics, vol. 333, pp. 155-197 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2869
abstract: In this paper we study scattering of two-dimensional massless Dirac fermions by a potential that depends on a single Cartesian variable. Depending on the energy of the incoming particle and its angle of incidence, there are three different regimes of scattering. To find the reflection and transmission coefficients in these regimes, we apply the Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin (WKB), also called semiclassical, approximation. We use the method of comparison equations to extend our prediction to nearly normal incidence, where the conventional WKB method should be modified due to the degeneracy of turning points. We compare our results to numerical calculations and find good agreement.

id: 1206.2906
title: Theory of vibronic assistance in the nonequilibrium condensation of exciton polaritons in optically--pumped organic single crystal microcavities
authors: Eric R. Bittner, Svitlana Zaster, Carlos Silva
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2906
abstract: We present a reaction/diffusion model for the formation of a lower polariton condensate in a micro cavity containing an organic semiconducting molecular crystalline film. Our model--based upon an anthracene film sandwiched between two reflecting dielectric mirrors--consists of three coupled fields corresponding to a gas of excitons created by an external driving pulse, a reservoir of vibron states formed by the coupling between a ground-state vibrational model and a cavity photon, and a lower polariton condensate. We show that at finite temperature, the presence of the vibron reservoir can augment the exciton population such that a lower critical pumping threshold is required to achieve condensation.

id: 1206.2907
title: Particular Integrability and (Quasi)-exact-solvability
authors: Alexander V. Turbiner
comments: 13 pages, typos corrected
journal: Journ of Phys A 45 (2012) 025203
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2907
abstract: A notion of a particular integrability is introduced when two operators commute on a subspace of the space where they act. Particular integrals for one-dimensional (quasi)-exactly-solvable Schroedinger operators and Calogero-Sutherland Hamiltonians for all roots are found. In the classical case some special trajectories for which the corresponding particular constants of motion appear are indicated.

id: 1206.3024
title: Fowler-Nordheim Electron Cold Emission Formalism in Presence of Strong Magnetic Field
authors: Arpita Ghosh, Somenath Chakrabarty
comments: Nine pages including one figure. Some version will apprear in Monthly Notice of Royal Astronomical Society (MNRAS), 2012. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1006.5194
journal: 
subjects: Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3024
abstract: Formalisms for both non-relativistic as well as relativistic versions of field emission of electrons in presence of strong quantizing magnetic field, relevant for strongly magnetized neutron stars or magnetars are developed. In the non-relativistic scenario, where electrons obey Schr{$\ddot{\rm{o}}$}dinger equation, we have noticed that when Landau levels are populated for electrons in presence of strong quantizing magnetic field the transmission probability exactly vanishes unless the electrons are spin polarized in the opposite direction to the external magnetic field. On the other hand, the cold electron emission under the influence of strong electrostatic field at the poles is totally forbidden from the surface of those compact objects for which the surface magnetic field strength is $\gg 10^{15}$G (in the eventuality that they may exist). Whereas in the relativistic case, where the electrons obey Dirac equation, the presence of strong quantizing magnetic field completely forbids the emission of electrons from the surface of compact objects if $B >10^{13}$G.

id: 1206.3051
title: Interfacing a quantum dot spin with a photonic circuit
authors: Isaac J. Luxmoore, Nicholas A. Wasley, Andrew J. Ramsay, Arthur C. T. Thijssen, Ruth Oulton, Maxime Hugues, Sachin Kasture, Achanta V. Gopal, A. Mark Fox, Maurice S. Skolnick
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 037402 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3051
abstract: A scalable optical quantum information processor is likely to be a waveguide circuit with integrated sources, detectors, and either deterministic quantum-logic or quantum memory elements. With microsecond coherence times, ultrafast coherent control, and lifetime-limited transitions, semiconductor quantum-dot spins are a natural choice for the static qubits. However their integration with flying photonic qubits requires an on-chip spin-photon interface, which presents a fundamental problem: the spin-state is measured and controlled via circularly-polarised photons, but waveguides support only linear polarisation. We demonstrate here a solution based on two orthogonal photonic nanowires, in which the spin-state is mapped to a path-encoded photon, thus providing a blue-print for a scalable spin-photon network. Furthermore, for some devices we observe that the circular polarisation state is directly mapped to orthogonal nanowires. This result, which is physically surprising for a non-chiral structure, is shown to be related to the nano-positioning of the quantum-dot with respect to the photonic circuit.

id: 1206.3067
title: Comment on "Can we measure structures to a precision better than the Planck length?"[arXiv:1205.3636], by Sabine Hossenfelder
authors: Sergio Doplicher, Gherardo Piacitelli, Luca Tomassini, Stefano Viaggiu
comments: LaTeX, 6 pages. A discussion about the meaning of localisation added to the previous version, together with two new references
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3067
abstract: First principles do imply a non-zero minimal distance between events in spacetime, but no positive lower bound to the precision of the measurement of a single coordinate.

id: 1206.3074
title: Relativistic spin operator and Dirac equation
authors: Pawe? Caban, Jakub Rembieli¨½ski, Marta W?odarczyk
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3074
abstract: We give a direct link between description of Dirac particles in the abstract framework of unitary representation of the Poincar\'e group and description with the help of the Dirac equation. In this context we discuss in detail the spin operator for a relativistic Dirac particle. We show also that the spin operator used in quantum field theory for spin $s=1/2$ corresponds to the Foldy-Woutheysen mean-spin operator.

id: 1206.3092
title: Entanglement negativity in quantum field theory
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, John Cardy, Erik Tonni
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 130502 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3092
abstract: We develop a systematic method to extract the negativity in the ground state of a 1+1 dimensional relativistic quantum field theory, using a path integral formalism to construct the partial transpose rho_A^{T_2} of the reduced density matrix of a subsystem A=A1 U A2, and introducing a replica approach to obtain its trace norm which gives the logarithmic negativity E=ln||\rho_A^{T_2}||. This is shown to reproduce standard results for a pure state. We then apply this method to conformal field theories, deriving the result E\sim(c/4) ln(L1 L2/(L1+L2)) for the case of two adjacent intervals of lengths L1, L2 in an infinite system, where c is the central charge. For two disjoint intervals it depends only on the harmonic ratio of the four end points and so is manifestly scale invariant. We check our findings against exact numerical results in the harmonic chain.

id: 1206.3112
title: Controllable exchange coupling between two singlet-triplet qubits
authors: Rui Li, Xuedong Hu, J. Q. You
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 205306 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3112
abstract: We study controllable exchange coupling between two singlet-triplet qubits. We start from the original second quantized Hamiltonian of a quadruple quantum dot system and obtain the effective spin-spin interaction between the two qubits using the projection operator method. Under a strong uniform external magnetic field and an inhomogeneous local micro-magnetic field, the effective interqubit coupling is of the Ising type, and the coupling strength can be expressed in terms of quantum dot parameters. Finally, we discuss how to generate various two-qubit operations using this controllable coupling, such as entanglement generation, and controlled-NOT gate.

id: 1206.3117
title: Chiral symmetry on the edge of 2D symmetry protected topological phases
authors: Xie Chen, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 9 pages including supplementary materials. 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 235135 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3117
abstract: Symmetry protected topological (SPT) states are short-range entangled states with symmetry, which have symmetry protected gapless edge states around a gapped bulk. Recently, we proposed a systematic construction of SPT phases in interacting bosonic systems, however it is not very clear what is the form of the low energy excitations on the gapless edge. In this paper, we answer this question for two dimensional bosonic SPT phases with Z_N and U(1) symmetry. We find that while the low energy modes of the gapless edges are non-chiral, symmetry acts on them in a chiral way, i.e. acts on the right movers and the left movers differently. This special realization of symmetry protects the gaplessness of the otherwise unstable edge states by prohibiting a direct scattering between the left and right movers. Moreover, understanding of the low energy effective theory leads to experimental predictions about the SPT phases. In particular, we find that all the 2D U(1) SPT phases have even integer quantized Hall conductance.

id: 1206.3166
title: The black-hole/qubit correspondence: an up-to-date review
authors: L. Borsten, M. J. Duff, P. L¨¦vay
comments: 66 pages, 11 figures, to appear in Classical and Quantum Gravity special focus issue on relativistic quantum information
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3166
abstract: We give a review of the black-hole/qubit correspondence that incorporates not only the earlier results on black hole entropy and entanglement measures, seven qubits and the Fano plane, wrapped branes as qubits and the attractor mechanism as a distillation procedure, but also newer material including error-correcting codes, Mermin squares, Freudenthal triples and 4-qubit entanglement classification.

id: 1206.3216
title: Spin-Orbital Liquid on a Triangular Lattice
authors: Andrzej M. Ole?, Ji?¨ª Chaloupka
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, presented at Euroconference Physics of Magnetism 2011
journal: Acta Phys. Polon. A 121, 1026 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3216
abstract: Using Lanczos exact diagonalization of finite clusters we demonstrate that the spin-orbital $d^1$ model for triply degenerate $t_{2g}$ orbitals on a triangular lattice provides an example of a spin-orbital liquid ground state. We also show that the spin-orbital liquid involves entangled valence bond states which violate the Goodenough-Kanamori rules, and modify effective spin exchange constants.

id: 1206.3300
title: Multiscale photosynthetic exciton transfer
authors: A. K. Ringsmuth, G. J. Milburn, T. M. Stace
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. A significantly updated version is now published online by Nature Physics (2012)
journal: Nature Physics 8, 562-567 (2012)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3300
abstract: Photosynthetic light harvesting provides a natural blueprint for bioengineered and biomimetic solar energy and light detection technologies. Recent evidence suggests some individual light harvesting protein complexes (LHCs) and LHC subunits efficiently transfer excitons towards chemical reaction centers (RCs) via an interplay between excitonic quantum coherence, resonant protein vibrations, and thermal decoherence. The role of coherence in vivo is unclear however, where excitons are transferred through multi-LHC/RC aggregates over distances typically large compared with intra-LHC scales. Here we assess the possibility of long-range coherent transfer in a simple chromophore network with disordered site and transfer coupling energies. Through renormalization we find that, surprisingly, decoherence is diminished at larger scales, and long-range coherence is facilitated by chromophoric clustering. Conversely, static disorder in the site energies grows with length scale, forcing localization. Our results suggest sustained coherent exciton transfer may be possible over distances large compared with nearest-neighbour (n-n) chromophore separations, at physiological temperatures, in a clustered network with small static disorder. This may support findings suggesting long-range coherence in algal chloroplasts, and provides a framework for engineering large chromophore or quantum dot high-temperature exciton transfer networks.

id: 1206.3313
title: Characterizing disordered fermion systems using the momentum-space entanglement spectrum
authors: Ian Mondragon-Shem, Mayukh Khan, Taylor L. Hughes
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 046806 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3313
abstract: The use of quantum entanglement to study condensed matter systems has been flourishing in critical systems and topological phases. Additionally, using real-space entanglement entropies and entanglement spectra one can characterize localized and delocalized phases of disordered fermion systems. Here we instead propose the momentum-space entanglement spectrum as a means of characterizing disordered models. We show that localization in 1D arises from the momentum space entanglement between left and right movers and illustrate our methods using explicit models with spatially correlated disorder that exhibit phases which avoid complete Anderson localization. The momentum space entanglement spectrum clearly reveals the location of delocalized states in the energy spectrum and can be used as a signature of the phase transition between a delocalized and localized phase.

id: 1206.3339
title: Domain wall suppression in trapped mixtures of Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Francesco V. Pepe, Paolo Facchi, Giuseppe Florio, S. Pascazio
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023629 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3339
abstract: The ground state energy of a binary mixture of Bose-Einstein condensates can be estimated for large atomic samples by making use of suitably regularized Thomas-Fermi density profiles. By exploiting a variational method on the trial densities the energy can be computed by explicitly taking into account the normalization condition. This yields analytical results and provides the basis for further improvement of the approximation. As a case study, we consider a binary mixture of $^{87}$Rb atoms in two different hyperfine states in a double well potential and discuss the energy crossing between density profiles with different numbers of domain walls, as the number of particles and the inter-species interaction vary.

id: 1206.3436
title: 'Magic' Configurations of Three-Qubit Observables and Geometric Hyperplanes of the Smallest Split Cayley Hexagon
authors: Metod Saniga, Michel Planat, Petr Pracna, P¨¦ter L¨¦vay
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 083, 9 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3436
abstract: Recently Waegell and Aravind [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012), 405301, 13 pages] have given a number of distinct sets of three-qubit observables, each furnishing a proof of the Kochen-Specker theorem. Here it is demonstrated that two of these sets/configurations, namely the $18_{2} - 12_{3}$ and $2_{4}14_{2} - 4_{3}6_{4}$ ones, can uniquely be extended into geometric hyperplanes of the split Cayley hexagon of order two, namely into those of types ${\cal V}_{22}(37; 0, 12, 15, 10)$ and ${\cal V}_{4}(49; 0, 0, 21, 28)$ in the classification of Frohardt and Johnson [Comm. Algebra 22 (1994), 773-797]. Moreover, employing an automorphism of order seven of the hexagon, six more replicas of either of the two configurations are obtained.

id: 1206.3445
title: QED-based Optical Bloch Equations without electric dipole approximation: A model for a two-level atom interacting with a monochromatic X-ray laser beam
authors: Wen-Zhuo Zhang, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3445
abstract: We derive a set of optical Bloch equations (OBEs) directly from the minimal-coupling Hamiltonian density of the bound-state quantum electrodynamics (bound-state QED). Such optical Bloch equations are beyond the former widely-used ones due to that there is no electric dipole approximation (EDA) on the minimal-coupling Hamiltonian density of the bound-state QED. Then our optical Bloch equations can describe a two-level atom interacting with a monochromatic light of arbitrary wavelength, which are suitable to study the spectroscopy and the Rabi oscillations of two-level atoms in X-ray laser beams since that the wavelength of X-ray is close to an atom to make the electric dipole approximation (EDA) invalid.

id: 1206.3450
title: Markovian kinetic equation approach to electron transport through quantum dot coupled to superconducting leads
authors: Daniel S. Kosov, Toma? Prosen, Bojan ?unkovi?
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3450
abstract: We present a derivation of Markovian master equation for the out of equilibrium quantum dot connected to two superconducting reservoirs, which are described by the Bogoliubov-de Gennes Hamiltonians and have the chemical potentials, the temperatures, and the complex order parameters as the relevant quantities. We consider a specific example in which the quantum dot is represented by the Anderson impurity model and study the transport properties, proximity effect and Andreev bound states in equilibrium and far from equilibrium setups.

id: 1206.3505
title: All-optical control of the spin state in the NV-center in diamond
authors: Florian Hilser, Guido Burkard
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3505
abstract: We describe an all-optical scheme for spin manipulation in the ground-state triplet of the negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond. Virtual optical excitation from the 3A_2 ground state into the 3E excited state allows for spin rotations by virtue of the spin-spin interaction in the two-fold orbitally degenerate excited state. We derive an effective Hamiltonian for optically induced spin-flip transitions within the ground state spin triplet due to off-resonant optical pumping. Furthermore, we investigate the spin qubit formed by the Zeeman sub-levels with spin projection m_S = 0 and m_S = -1 along the NV axis around the ground state level anticrossing with regard to full optical control of the electron spin.

id: 1206.3558
title: Fiber-Cavity-Based Optomechanical Device
authors: N. E. Flowers-Jacobs, S. W. Hoch, J. C. Sankey, A. Kashkanova, A. M. Jayich, C. Deutsch, J. Reichel, J. G. E. Harris
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; the following article has been submitted to Applied Physics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3558
abstract: We describe an optomechanical device consisting of a fiber-based optical cavity containing a silicon nitiride membrane. In comparison with typical free-space cavities, the fiber-cavity's small mode size (10 {\mu}m waist, 80 {\mu}m length) allows the use of smaller, lighter membranes and increases the cavity-membrane linear coupling to 3 GHz/nm and quadratic coupling to 20 GHz/nm^2. This device is also intrinsically fiber-coupled and uses glass ferrules for passive alignment. These improvements will greatly simplify the use of optomechanical systems, particularly in cryogenic settings. At room temperature, we expect these devices to be able to detect the shot noise of radiation pressure.

id: 1206.3663
title: 3 fermionic families naturally arise from hyperionic formalism
authors: Diego Marin
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3663
abstract: We'll show as a quantum theory based on hyperions (said also "complex quaternions") gives reason straightforwardly for the existence of three fermionic families, dark matter and superfields which don't require never seen particles.

id: 1206.3677
title: On Dynamical Justification of Quantum Scattering Cross Section
authors: Alexander Komech
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3677
abstract: A~dynamical justification of quantum differential cross section in the context of long time transition to stationary regime for the Schr\"odinger equation is suggested. The problem has been stated by Reed and Simon. Our approach is based on spherical incident waves produced by a harmonic source and the long-range asymptotics for the corresponding spherical limiting amplitudes. The main results are as follows: i)~the convergence of spherical limiting amplitudes to the limit as the source increases to infinity, and ii) the universally recognized formula for the differential cross section corresponding to the limiting flux. The main technical ingredients are the Agmon--Jensen--Kato's analytical theory of the Green function, Ikebe's uniqueness theorem for the Lippmann--Schwinger equation, and some adjustments of classical asymptotics for the Coulomb potentials.

id: 1206.3681
title: Role of Nuclear Quadrupole Coupling on Decoherence and Relaxation of Central Spins in Quantum Dots
authors: N. A. Sinitsyn, Yan Li, S. A. Crooker, A. Saxena, D. L. Smith
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 166605 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3681
abstract: Strain-induced gradients of local electric fields in semiconductor quantum dots can couple to the quadrupole moments of nuclear spins. We develop a theory describing the influence of this quadrupolar coupling (QC) on the spin correlators of electron and hole "central" spins localized in such dots. We show that when the QC strength is comparable to or larger than the hyperfine coupling strength between nuclei and the central spin, the relaxation rate of the central spin is strongly enhanced and can be exponential. We demonstrate a good agreement with recent experiments on spin relaxation in hole-doped (In,Ga)As self-assembled quantum dots.

id: 1206.3684
title: Regular subspaces of a quaternionic Hilbert space from quaternionic Hermite polynomials and associated coherent states
authors: K. Thirulogasanthar, S. Twareque Ali
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3684
abstract: We define quaternionic Hermite polynomials by analogy with two families of complex Hermite polynomials. As in the complex case, these polynomials consatitute orthogonal families of vectors in ambient quaternionic $L^2$-spaces. Using these polynomials, we then define regular and anti-regular subspaces of these $L^2$-spaces, the associated reproducing kernels and the ensuing quaternionic coherent states.

id: 1206.3687
title: Matter wave scattering on an amplitude-modulated optical lattice
authors: Pierrick Cheiney, Charlotte Fabre, Fran?ois Vermersch, Giovanni Luca Gattobigio, Renaud Mathevet, Thierry Lahaye, David Guery-Odelin
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87 (2013) 013623
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3687
abstract: We experimentally study the scattering of guided matter waves on an amplitude-modulated optical lattice. We observe different types of frequency-dependent dips in the asymptotic output density distribution. Their positions are compared quantitatively with numerical simulations. A semiclassical model that combines \emph{local} Floquet-Bloch bands analysis and Landau-Zener transitions provides a simple picture of the observed phenomena in terms of elementary \emph{Floquet photon} absorption-emission processes and envelope-induced reflections. Finally, we propose and demonstrate the use of this technique with a bichromatic modulation to design a tunable sub-recoil velocity filter. Such a filter can be transposed to all species since it does not rely on a specific internal level configuration of the atoms.

id: 1206.3707
title: Symplectic geometry of quantum noise
authors: Leonid Polterovich
comments: 57 pages, 3 figures. Incorporates arXiv:1203.2348
journal: 
subjects: Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3707
abstract: We discuss a quantum counterpart, in the sense of the Berezin-Toeplitz quantization, of certain constraints on Poisson brackets coming from "hard" symplectic geometry. It turns out that they can be interpreted in terms of the quantum noise of observables and their joint measurements in operational quantum mechanics. Our findings include various geometric mechanisms of quantum noise production and a noise-localization uncertainty relation. The methods involve Floer theory and Poisson bracket invariants originated in function theory on symplectic manifolds.

id: 1206.3759
title: Fractional Chern Insulators in Topological Flat bands with Higher Chern Number
authors: Zhao Liu, Emil J. Bergholtz, Heng Fan, Andreas M. Laeuchli
comments: 5+4 pages. Final version. Main text as published, some extra data in the supplementary material
journal: Physical Review Letters 109, 186805 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3759
abstract: Lattice models forming bands with higher Chern number offer an intriguing possibility for new phases of matter with no analogue in continuum Landau levels. Here, we establish the existence of a number of new bulk insulating states at fractional filling in flat bands with Chern number $C=N>1$, forming in a recently proposed pyrochlore model with strong spin-orbit coupling. In particular, we find compelling evidence for a series of stable states at $\nu=1/(2N+1)$ for fermions as well as bosonic states at $\nu=1/(N+1)$. By examining the topological ground state degeneracies and the excitation structure as well as the entanglement spectrum, we conclude that these states are Abelian. We also explicitly demonstrate that these states are nevertheless qualitatively different from conventional quantum Hall (multilayer) states due to the novel properties of the underlying band structure.

id: 1206.3828
title: Michelson interferometry with quantum noise reduction
authors: Takahisa Mitsui, Kenichiro Aoki
comments: 4figs
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3828
abstract: A Michelson interferometer with noise reduction to sub-shot noise levels is proposed and realized. Multiple measurements of a single signal beam are taken and the quantum property of light plays an essential role in the principle underlying this interferometry. The method makes use of the coherent state of light and requires only a simple modification to the standard Michelson interferometer. The surface fluctuation spectra of liquids are measured using this method down to a few orders of magnitude below the shot noise level. The spectrum derived from hydrodynamical considerations agrees well with the observed results for water. However, for oil, slight deviations are seen at high frequencies ($\gtrsim1\,$MHz), perhaps indicating its more complex underlying physics. The measurement requires a relatively low light power and a short time, so that it has a wide range of applicability.

id: 1206.3860
title: Transverse electric conductivity and dielectric function in quantum non-degenerate collisional plasma by Mermin approach
authors: A. V. Latyshev, A. A. Yushkanov
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3860
abstract: Formulas for transverse conductance in quantum non-degenerate collisional plasma are deduced. The kinetic equation in momentum space in the relaxation approach is used. It is shown, that at $\hbar\to 0$ the derived formula transfers to the classical one. It is shown also, that when values of dimensionless wave numbers are small, the conductance formula transfers in the known formula for classical non-degenerate plasmas.

id: 1206.3863
title: Hamiltonian formulation of nonequilibrium quantum dynamics: geometric structure of the BBGKY hierarchy
authors: Ryan Requist
comments: 17 pages, revised
journal: Phys. Rev. A, vol. 86, 022117 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3863
abstract: Time-resolved measurement techniques are opening a window on nonequilibrium quantum phenomena that is radically different from the traditional picture in the frequency domain. The simulation and interpretation of nonequilibrium dynamics is a conspicuous challenge for theory. This paper presents a novel approach to quantum many-body dynamics that is based on a Hamiltonian formulation of the Bogoliubov-Born-Green-Kirkwood-Yvon (BBGKY) hierarchy of equations of motion for reduced density matrices. These equations have an underlying symplectic structure, and we write them in the form of the classical Hamilton equations for canonically conjugate variables. Applying canonical perturbation theory or the Krylov-Bogoliubov averaging method to the resulting equations yields a systematic approximation scheme. The possibility of using memory-dependent functional approximations to close the Hamilton equations at a particular level of the hierarchy is discussed. The geometric structure of the equations gives rise to reduced geometric phases that are observable even for noncyclic evolutions of the many-body state. The formalism is applied to a finite Hubbard chain which undergoes a quench in on-site interaction energy U. Canonical perturbation theory, carried out to second order, fully captures the nontrivial real-time dynamics of the model, including resonance phenomena and the coupling of fast and slow variables.

id: 1206.3944
title: Electromagnetically induced invisibility cloaking
authors: Darran F. Milne, Natalia Korolkova
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3944
abstract: Invisibility cloaking imposes strict conditions on the refractive index profiles of cloaking media that must be satisfied to successfully hide an object. The first experimental demonstrations of cloaking used artificial metamaterials to respond to this challenge. In this work we show how a much simpler technique of electromagnetically induced transparency can be used to achieve a partial, {\it carpet} cloaking at optical frequencies in atomic vapours or solids. To generate a desired combination of low absorption with strong modifications of the refractive index, we use chiral media with an induced magneto-electrical cross-coupling. We demonstrate that high-contrast positive refractive indices can be attained by fine tuning the material with a gradient magnetic field and calculate the parameters required to construct a carpet cloak.

id: 1206.4013
title: Equidistance of the Complex 2-Dim Anharmonic Oscillator Spectrum: Exact Solution
authors: F. Cannata, M. V. Ioffe, D. N. Nishnianidze
comments: 17 p.p
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 45 (2012) 295303
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4013
abstract: We study a class of quantum two-dimensional models with complex potentials of specific form. They can be considered as the generalization of a recently studied model with quadratic interaction not amenable to conventional separation of variables. In the present case, the property of shape invariance provides the equidistant form of the spectrum and the algorithm to construct eigenfunctions analytically. It is shown that the Hamiltonian is non-diagonalizable, and the resolution of identity must include also the corresponding associated functions. In the specific case of anharmonic second-plus-fourth order interaction, expressions for the wave functions and associated functions are constructed explicitly for the lowest levels, and the recursive algorithm to produce higher level wave functions is given.

id: 1206.4017
title: Enhanced Quantum Procedures that Resolve Difficult Problems
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: 53 pages, Article related to conference lecture, typos corrected plus a few extra subsections
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4017
abstract: A careful study of the classical/quantum connection with the aid of coherent states offers new insights into various technical problems. This analysis includes both canonical as well as closely related affine quantization procedures. The new tools are applied to several examples including: (1) A quantum formulation that is invariant under arbitrary classical canonical transformations of coordinates; (2) A toy model that for all positive energy solutions has singularities which are removed at the classical level when the correct quantum corrections are applied; (3) A fairly simple model field theory with nontrivial classical behavior that, when conventionally quantized, becomes trivial, but nevertheless finds a proper solution using the enhanced procedures; (4) A model of scalar field theories with nontrivial classical behavior that, when conventionally quantized, becomes trivial, but nevertheless finds a proper solution using the enhanced procedures; (5) A viable formulation of the kinematics of quantum gravity that respects the strict positivity of the spatial metric in both its classical and quantum versions; and (6) A proposal for a nontrivial quantization of $\phi^4_4$ that is ripe for study by Monte Carlo computational methods. All of these examples use fairly general arguments that can be understood by a broad audience.

id: 1206.4025
title: Elementary Proofs of Grothendieck Theorems for Completely Bounded Norms
authors: Oded Regev, Thomas Vidick
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4025
abstract: We provide alternative proofs of two recent Grothendieck theorems for jointly completely bounded bilinear forms, originally due to Pisier and Shlyakhtenko (Invent. Math. 2002) and Haagerup and Musat (Invent. Math. 2008). Our proofs are elementary and are inspired by the so-called embezzlement states in quantum information theory. Moreover, our proofs lead to quantitative estimates.

id: 1206.4081
title: Parametrized Complexity of Weak Odd Domination Problems
authors: David Cattan¨¦o, Simon Perdrix
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: Fundamentals of Computation Theory (FCT'13), LNCS vol 8070 pp 107-120, 2013
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4081
abstract: Given a graph $G=(V,E)$, a subset $B\subseteq V$ of vertices is a weak odd dominated (WOD) set if there exists $D \subseteq V {\setminus} B$ such that every vertex in $B$ has an odd number of neighbours in $D$. $\kappa(G)$ denotes the size of the largest WOD set, and $\kappa'(G)$ the size of the smallest non-WOD set. The maximum of $\kappa(G)$ and $|V|-\kappa'(G)$, denoted $\kappa_Q(G)$, plays a crucial role in quantum cryptography. In particular deciding, given a graph $G$ and $k>0$, whether $\kappa_Q(G)\le k$ is of practical interest in the design of graph-based quantum secret sharing schemes. The decision problems associated with the quantities $\kappa$, $\kappa'$ and $\kappa_Q$ are known to be NP-Complete. In this paper, we consider the approximation of these quantities and the parameterized complexity of the corresponding problems. We mainly prove the fixed-parameter intractability (W$[1]$-hardness) of these problems. Regarding the approximation, we show that $\kappa_Q$, $\kappa$ and $\kappa'$ admit a constant factor approximation algorithm, and that $\kappa$ and $\kappa'$ have no polynomial approximation scheme unless P=NP.

id: 1206.4200
title: Bipartite entanglement, spherical actions and geometry of local unitary orbits
authors: Alan Huckleberry, Marek Ku?, Adam Sawicki
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4200
abstract: We use the geometry of the moment map to investigate properties of pure entangled states of composite quantum systems. The orbits of equally entangled states are mapped by the moment map on coadjoint orbits of local transformations (unitary transformations which do not change entanglement), thus the geometry of coadjoint orbits provides a partial classification of different entanglement classes. To achieve the full classification a further study of fibers of the moment map is needed. We show how this can be done effectively in the case of the bipartite entanglement by employing Brion's theorem. In particular, we presented the exact description of the partial symplectic structure of all local orbits for two bosons, fermions and distinguishable particles.

id: 1206.4227
title: On Upper Bounds for Toroidal Mosaic Numbers
authors: Michael J. Carlisle, Michael S. Laufer
comments: 10 pages, 111 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Sept 2013, Vol 12, Issue 9, pp 2935-2945
subjects: Geometric Topology (math.GT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4227
abstract: In this paper, we work to construct mosaic representations of knots on the torus, rather than in the plane. This consists of a particular choice of the ambient group, as well as different definitions of contiguous and suitably connected. We present conditions under which mosaic numbers might decrease by this projection, and present a tool to measure this reduction. We show that the order of edge identification in construction of the torus sometimes yields different resultant knots from a given mosaic when reversed. Additionally, in the Appendix we give the catalog of all 2 by 2 torus mosaics.

id: 1206.4250
title: The Schr?dinger-Newton equation as non-relativistic limit of self-gravitating Klein-Gordon and Dirac fields
authors: Domenico Giulini, Andr¨¦ Gro?ardt
comments: 27 pages
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29 (2012) 215010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4250
abstract: In this paper we show that the Schr\"odinger-Newton equation for spherically symmetric gravitational fields can be derived in a WKB-like expansion in 1/c from the Einstein-Klein-Gordon and Einstein-Dirac system.

id: 1206.4425
title: Constraining CSL strength parameter $¦Ë$ from standard cosmology and spectral distortions of CMBR
authors: Kinjalk Lochan, Suratna Das, Angelo Bassi
comments: v2: 27 pages, RevTeX4.1, references added, modification in Sec III, main conclusion unchanged, To appear in Physical Review D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 86, 065016 (2012)
subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4425
abstract: Models of spontaneous wave function collapse modify the linear Schr\"{o}dinger equation of standard Quantum Mechanics by adding stochastic non-linear terms to it. The aim of such models is to describe the quantum (linear) nature of microsystems along with the classical nature (violation of superposition principle) of macroscopic ones. The addition of such non-linear terms in the Schr\"{o}dinger equation leads to non-conservation of energy of the system under consideration. Thus, a striking feature of collapse models is to heat non-relativistic particles with a constant rate. If such a process is physical, then it has the ability to perturb the well-understood thermal history of the universe. In this article we will try to investigate the impacts of such heating terms on standard evolution of non-relativistic matter and on the formation of CMBR. We will use the CSL model, the most widely used collapse model. We will also put constraints on the CSL collapse rate $\lambda$ by considering that the standard evolution of non-relativistic matter is not hampered and the observed precise blackbody spectrum of CMBR would not get distorted (in the form of $\mu-$type and $y-$type distortions) so as to violate the observed bounds.

id: 1206.4507
title: Controlling chemical reactions of a single particle
authors: Lothar Ratschbacher, Christoph Zipkes, Carlo Sias, Michael K?hl
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 8, 649 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4507
abstract: The control of chemical reactions is a recurring theme in physics and chemistry. Traditionally, chemical reactions have been investigated by tuning thermodynamic parameters, such as temperature or pressure. More recently, physical methods such as laser or magnetic field control have emerged to provide completely new experimental possibilities, in particular in the realm of cold collisions. The control of reaction pathways is also a critical component to implement molecular quantum information processing. For these undertakings, single particles provide a clean and well-controlled experimental system. Here, we report on the experimental tuning of the exchange reaction rates of a single trapped ion with ultracold neutral atoms by exerting control over both their quantum states. We observe the influence of the hyperfine interaction on chemical reaction rates and branching ratios, and monitor the kinematics of the reaction products. These investigations advance chemistry with single trapped particles towards achieving quantum-limited control of chemical reactions and indicate limits for buffer gas cooling of single ion clocks.

id: 1206.4537
title: Spin Hall Conductivity on the Anisotropic Triangular Lattice
authors: Paul Wenk, Stefan Kettemann, Georges Bouzerar
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4537
abstract: We present a detailed study of the spin Hall conductivity on a two-dimensional triangular lattice in the presence of Rashba spin-orbit coupling. In particular, we focus part of our attention on the effect of the anisotropy of the nearest neighbor hopping amplitude. It is found that the presence of anisotropy has drastic effects on the spin Hall conductivity, especially in the hole doped regime where a significant increase or/and reversed sign of the spin Hall conductivity has been obtained. We also provide a systematic analysis of the numerical results in terms of Berry phases. The changes of signs observed at particular density of carriers appear to be a consequence of both Fermi surface topology and change of sign of electron velocity. In addition, in contrast to the two-dimensional square lattice, it is shown that the tight binding spin-orbit Hamiltonian should be derived carefully from the continuous model on the triangular lattice.

id: 1206.4549
title: Coherent versus Incoherent Light Scattering from a Quantum Dot
authors: K. Konthasinghe, J. Walker, M. Peiris, C. K. Shih, Y. Yu, M. F. Li, J. F. He, L. J. Wang, H. Q. Ni, Z. C. Niu, A. Muller
comments: to appear in PRB 85, 235315
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4549
abstract: We analyze the light scattered by a single InAs quantum dot interacting with a resonant continuous-wave laser. High resolution spectra reveal clear distinctions between coherent and incoherent scattering, with the laser intensity spanning over four orders of magnitude. We find that the fraction of coherently scattered photons can approach unity under sufficiently weak or detuned excitation, ruling out pure dephasing as a relevant decoherence mechanism. We show how spectral diffusion shapes spectra, correlation functions, and phase-coherence, concealing the ideal radiatively-broadened two-level system described by Mollow.

id: 1206.4553
title: Decoherent Histories of Spin Networks
authors: David P.B. Schroeren
comments: Published version
journal: Foundations of Physics, March 2013, Volume 43, Issue 3, pp 310-328
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4553
abstract: The decoherent histories formalism, developed by Griffiths, Gell-Mann, and Hartle is a general framework in which to formulate a timeless, `generalised' quantum theory and extract predictions from it. Recent advances in spin foam models allow for loop gravity to be cast in this framework. In this paper, I propose a decoherence functional for loop gravity and interpret existing results as showing that coarse grained histories follow quasiclassical trajectories in the appropriate limit.

id: 1206.4706
title: Gain, directionality and noise in microwave SQUID amplifiers: Input-output approach
authors: Archana Kamal, John Clarke, Michel Devoret
comments: 12+ pages, 12 figures, 2 appendices
journal: Physical Review B 86, 144510 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4706
abstract: We present a new theoretical framework to analyze microwave amplifiers based on the dc SQUID. Our analysis applies input-output theory generalized for Josephson junction devices biased in the running state. Using this approach we express the high frequency dynamics of the SQUID as a scattering between the participating modes. This enables us to elucidate the inherently nonreciprocal nature of gain as a function of bias current and input frequency. This method can, in principle, accommodate an arbitrary number of Josephson harmonics generated in the running state of the junction. We report detailed calculations taking into account the first few harmonics that provide simple semi-quantitative results showing a degradation of gain, directionality and noise of the device as a function of increasing signal frequency. We also discuss the fundamental limits on device performance and applications of this formalism to real devices.

id: 1206.4756
title: Quantized Adiabatic Transport in Momentum Space
authors: Derek Y. H. Ho, Jiangbin Gong
comments: Main text of 11 pages plus Appendix of 13 pages. To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 010601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4756
abstract: Though topological aspects of energy bands are known to play a key role in quantum transport in solid-state systems, the implications of Floquet band topology for transport in momentum space (i.e., acceleration) are not explored so far. Using a ratchet accelerator model inspired by existing cold-atom experiments, here we characterize a class of extended Floquet bands of one-dimensional driven quantum systems by Chern numbers, reveal topological phase transitions therein, and theoretically predict the quantization of adiabatic transport in momentum space. Numerical results confirm our theory and indicate the feasibility of experimental studies.

id: 1206.4757
title: Weak Qubit Measurement with a Nonlinear Cavity: Beyond Perturbation Theory
authors: Catherine Laflamme, Aashish A. Clerk
comments: 4+ pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 123602 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4757
abstract: We analyze the use of a driven nonlinear cavity to make a weak continuous measurement of a dispersively-coupled qubit. We calculate the backaction dephasing rate and measurement rate beyond leading-order perturbation theory using a phase-space approach which accounts for cavity noise squeezing. Surprisingly, we find that increasing the coupling strength beyond the regime describable by leading-order perturbation theory (i.e. linear response) allows one to come significantly closer to the quantum limit on the measurement efficiency. We interpret this behaviour in terms of the non-Gaussian photon number fluctuations of the nonlinear cavity. Our results are relevant to recent experiments using superconducting microwave circuits to study quantum measurement.

id: 1206.4820
title: Hierarchical maximum entropy principle for generalized superstatistical systems and Bose-Einstein condensation of light
authors: Denis Nikolaevich Sob'yanin
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 061120 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4820
abstract: A principle of hierarchical entropy maximization is proposed for generalized superstatistical systems, which are characterized by the existence of three levels of dynamics. If a generalized superstatistical system comprises a set of superstatistical subsystems, each made up of a set of cells, then the Boltzmann-Gibbs-Shannon entropy should be maximized first for each cell, second for each subsystem, and finally for the whole system. Hierarchical entropy maximization naturally reflects the sufficient time-scale separation between different dynamical levels and allows one to find the distribution of both the intensive parameter and the control parameter for the corresponding superstatistics. The hierarchical maximum entropy principle is applied to fluctuations of the photon Bose-Einstein condensate in a dye microcavity. This principle provides an alternative to the master equation approach recently applied to this problem. The possibility of constructing generalized superstatistics based on a statistics different from the Boltzmann-Gibbs statistics is pointed out.

id: 1206.4850
title: Quantum-classical model for the formation of Rydberg molecules
authors: Andrej Junginger, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012713 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4850
abstract: A fascinating aspect of Rydberg atoms is their ability to form huge but very weakly bound molecules with a ground state atom, only held together by a scattering process between the latter and the Rydberg electron. Beyond the usual way of creating such molecules by laser excitation from two ground state atoms with a distance of less than the Rydberg radius, we demonstrate that Rydberg molecules can also be formed by capturing a ground state atom which is initially located outside the range of the Rydberg atom when it comes in contact with it. To demonstrate this effect, we investigate the scattering process between the Rydberg electron and the ground state atom within a quantum-classical framework. In this picture capturing results from a dissipative finite-mass correction term in the classical equations of motion. We show that and under which conditions the capturing takes place.

id: 1206.4852
title: Enlarged Molecules from Excited Atoms in Nanochannels
authors: Mathias Bostr?m, Iver Brevik, Bo E. Sernelius, Maofeng Dou, Clas Persson, Barry W. Ninham
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 014701 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4852
abstract: The resonance interaction that takes place in planar nanochannels between pairs of excited state atoms is explored. We consider interactions in channels of silica, zinc oxide and gold. The nanosized channels induce a dramatically different interaction from that in free space. Illustrative calculations for two lithium and cesium atoms, demonstrate that there is a short range repulsion followed by long range attraction. The binding energy is strongest near the surfaces. The size of the enlarged molecule is biggest at the center of the cavity and increases with channel width. Since the interaction is generic, we predict that enlarged molecules are formed in porous structures, and that the molecule size depends on the size of the nanochannels

id: 1206.4906
title: High-field quantum calculation reveals time-dependent negative Kerr contribution
authors: Pierre B¨¦jot, Eric Cormier, Edouard Hertz, Bruno Lavorel, J¨¦r?me Kasparian, Jean-Pierre Wolf, Olivier Faucher
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 043902 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4906
abstract: The exact quantum time-dependent optical response of hydrogen under strong field near infrared excitation is investigated and compared to the perturbative model widely used for describing the effective atomic polarization induced by intense laser fields. By solving the full 3D time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation, we exhibit a supplementary, quasi-instantaneous defocusing contribution missing in the weak-field model of polarization. We show that this effect is far from being negligible in particular when closures of ionization channels occur and stems from the interaction of electrons with their parent ions. It provides an interpretation to higher-order Kerr effect recently observed in various gases.

id: 1206.4941
title: Emergent quantum mechanics as a classical, irreversible thermodynamics
authors: D. Acosta, P. Fernandez de Cordoba, J. M. Isidro, J. L. G. Santander
comments: 20 pages, refs. added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4941
abstract: We present an explicit correspondence between quantum mechanics and the classical theory of irreversible thermodynamics as developed by Onsager, Prigogine et al. Our correspondence maps irreversible Gaussian Markov processes into the semiclassical approximation of quantum mechanics. Quantum-mechanical propagators are mapped into thermodynamical probability distributions. The Feynman path integral also arises naturally in this setup. The fact that quantum mechanics can be translated into thermodynamical language provides additional support for the conjecture that quantum mechanics is not a fundamental theory but rather an emergent phenomenon, i.e., an effective description of some underlying degrees of freedom.

id: 1206.4943
title: PT-symmetric interpretation of double-scaling
authors: Carl M. Bender, Moshe Moshe, Sarben Sarkar
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4943
abstract: The conventional double-scaling limit of an O(N)-symmetric quartic quantum field theory is inconsistent because the critical coupling constant is negative. Thus, at the critical coupling the Lagrangian defines a quantum theory with an upside-down potential whose energy appears to be unbounded below. Worse yet, the integral representation of the partition function of the theory does not exist. It is shown that one can avoid these difficulties if one replaces the original theory by its PT-symmetric analog. For a zero-dimensional O(N)-symmetric quartic vector model the partition function of the PT-symmetric analog is calculated explicitly in the double-scaling limit.

id: 1206.4972
title: Observation of PT phase transition in a simple mechanical system
authors: Carl M. Bender, Bjorn K. Berntson, David Parker, E. Samuel
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4972
abstract: If a Hamiltonian is PT symmetric, there are two possibilities: Either the eigenvalues are entirely real, in which case the Hamiltonian is said to be in an unbroken-PT-symmetric phase, or else the eigenvalues are partly real and partly complex, in which case the Hamiltonian is said to be in a broken-PT-symmetric phase. As one varies the parameters of the Hamiltonian, one can pass through the phase transition that separates the unbroken and broken phases. This transition has recently been observed in a variety of laboratory experiments. This paper explains the phase transition in a simple and intuitive fashion and then describes an extremely elementary experiment in which the phase transition is easily observed.

id: 1206.5025
title: Exact and Numerical Results on Entanglement Entropy in (5+1)-Dimensional CFT
authors: Benjamin R. Safdi
comments: 26 pages, 3 figures; v2 refs added; v3 refs added, minor improvements, version published in JHEP
journal: JHEP 1212 (2012) 005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5025
abstract: We calculate the shape dependence of entanglement entropy in (5+1)-dimensional conformal field theory in terms of the extrinsic curvature of the entangling surface, the opening angles of possible conical singularities, and the conformal anomaly coefficients, which are required to obey a single constraint. An important special case of this result is given by the interacting (2,0) theory describing a large number of coincident M5-branes. To derive the more general result we rely crucially on the holographic prescription for calculating entanglement entropy using Lovelock gravity. We test the conjecture by relating the entanglement entropy of the free massless (1,0) hypermultiplet in (5+1)-dimensions to the entanglement entropy of the free massive chiral multiplet in (2+1)-dimensions, which we calculate numerically using lattice techniques. We also present a numerical calculation of the (2+1)-dimensional renormalized entanglement entropy for the free massive Dirac fermion, which is shown to be consistent with the F-theorem.

id: 1206.5030
title: The black hole information problem beyond quantum theory
authors: Markus P. Mueller, Jonathan Oppenheim, Oscar C. O. Dahlsten
comments: 12 pages + appendix, 5 figures. Comments welcome. v2: typos corrected, published version
journal: Journal of High Energy Physics, Volume 2012, Issue 9, 116 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5030
abstract: The origin of black hole entropy and the black hole information problem provide important clues for trying to piece together a quantum theory of gravity. Thus far, discussions on this topic have mostly assumed that in a consistent theory of gravity and quantum mechanics, quantum theory will be unmodified. Here, we examine the black hole information problem in the context of generalisations of quantum theory. In particular, we examine black holes in the setting of generalised probabilistic theories, in which quantum theory and classical probability theory are special cases. We compute the time it takes information to escape a black hole, assuming that information is preserved. We find that under some very general assumptions, the arguments of Page (that information should escape the black hole after half the Hawking photons have been emitted), and the black-hole mirror result of Hayden and Preskill (that information can escape quickly) need to be modified. The modification is determined entirely by what we call the Wootters-Hardy parameter associated with a theory. We find that although the information leaves the black hole after enough photons have been emitted, it is fairly generic that it fails to appear outside the black hole at this point -- something impossible in quantum theory due to the no-hiding theorem. The information is neither inside the black hole, nor outside it, but is delocalised. Our central technical result is an information decoupling theorem which holds in the generalised probabilistic framework.

id: 1206.5066
title: Hitchin functionals are related to measures of entanglement
authors: P¨¦ter L¨¦vay, G¨¢bor S¨¢rosi
comments: 55 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5066
abstract: According to the Black Hole/Qubit Correspondence (BHQC) certain black hole entropy formulas in supergravity can be related to multipartite entanglement measures of quantum information. Here we show that the origin of this correspondence is a connection between Hitchin functionals used as action functionals for form theories of gravity related to topological strings, and entanglement measures for systems with a small number of constituents. The basic idea acting as a unifying agent in these seemingly unrelated fields is stability connected to the mathematical notion of special prehomogeneous vector spaces associated to Freudenthal systems coming from simple Jordan algebras. It is shown that the nonlinear function featuring these functionals and defining Calabi-Yau and generalized Calabi-Yau structures is the Freudenthal dual a concept introduced recently in connection with the BHQC. We propose to use the Hitchin invariant for three-forms in 7 dimensions as an entanglement measure playing a basic role in classifying three-fermion systems with seven modes. The representative of the class of maximal tripartite entanglement is the three-form used as a calibration for compactification on manifolds with $G_2$ holonomy. The idea that entanglement measures are related to action functionals from which the usual correspondence of the BHQC follows at the tree level suggests that one can use the BHQC in a more general context.

id: 1206.5086
title: Cooperative excitation and many-body interactions in a cold Rydberg gas
authors: Matthieu Viteau, Paul Huillery, Mark G. Bason, Nicola Malossi, Donatella Ciampini, Oliver Morsch, Ennio Arimondo, Daniel Comparat, Pierre Pillet
comments: accepted for publication in PRL; 10 pages, 4 figures (including Supplemental Material)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5086
abstract: The dipole blockade of Rydberg excitations is a hallmark of the strong interactions between atoms in these high-lying quantum states. One of the consequences of the dipole blockade is the suppression of fluctuations in the counting statistics of Rydberg excitations, of which some evidence has been found in previous experiments. Here we present experimental results on the dynamics and the counting statistics of Rydberg excitations of ultra-cold Rubidium atoms both on and off resonance, which exhibit sub- and super-Poissonian counting statistics, respectively. We compare our results with numerical simulations using a novel theoretical model based on Dicke states of Rydberg atoms including dipole-dipole interactions, finding good agreement between experiment and theory.

id: 1206.5171
title: Internal and external dynamics of antihydrogen in electric and magnetic fields of arbitrary orientation
authors: Michal Spacek, Vojtech Petracek
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5171
abstract: We have studied the motion of antihydrogen atoms in electric and magnetic fields of arbitrary orientation. Our aim was to find an exact model of external (centre-of-charge) and internal dynamics which would allow us to describe antihydrogen motion in a realistic way. After analysing the kinematics of the charge exchange reaction producing antihydrogen and of antihydrogen deexcitation, we discuss the dynamics in cases of special fields configurations. Finally, we propose an expression for the force acting on an antihydrogen atom when the field configuration is arbitrary. The general formula -- when reduced in the special field configurations -- matches the results which we obtained independently before. The focus is both on the centre of charge dynamics and on the accurate internal quantum characteristics.

id: 1206.5175
title: Bose-glass phases of ultracold atoms due to cavity backaction
authors: Hessam Habibian, Andr¨¦ Winter, Simone Paganelli, Heiko Rieger, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, new numerical simulations are added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 075304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5175
abstract: We determine the quantum ground-state properties of ultracold bosonic atoms interacting with the mode of a high-finesse resonator. The atoms are confined by an external optical lattice, whose period is incommensurate with the cavity mode wave length, and are driven by a transverse laser, which is resonant with the cavity mode. While for pointlike atoms photon scattering into the cavity is suppressed, for sufficiently strong lasers quantum fluctuations can support the build-up of an intracavity field, which in turn amplifies quantum fluctuations. The dynamics is described by a Bose-Hubbard model where the coefficients due to the cavity field depend on the atomic density at all lattice sites. Quantum Monte Carlo simulations and mean-field calculations show that for large parameter regions cavity backaction forces the atoms into clusters with a checkerboard density distribution. Here, the ground state lacks superfluidity and possesses finite compressibility, typical of a Bose-glass. This system constitutes a novel setting where quantum fluctuations give rise to effects usually associated with disorder.

id: 1206.5185
title: Time-delayed nonsequential double ionization with few-cycle laser pulses: importance of the carrier-envelope phase
authors: C. Figueira de Morisson Faria, T. Shaaran, M. T. Nygren
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053405 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5185
abstract: We perform theoretical investigations of laser-induced nonsequential double ionization with few cycle pulses, with particular emphasis on the dependence of the electron-momentum distributions on the carrier-envelope phase. We focus on the recollision-excitation with subsequent tunneling ionization (RESI) pathway, in which a released electron, upon return to its parent ion, gives part of its kinetic energy to promote a second electron to an excited state. At a subsequent time, the second electron is freed through tunneling ionization. We show that the RESI electron-momentum distributions vary dramatically with regard to the carrier-envelope phase. By performing a detailed analysis of the dynamics of the two active electrons in terms of quantum orbits, we relate the shapes and the momentum regions populated by such distributions to the dominant set of orbits along which rescattering of the first electron and ionization of the second electron occurs. These orbits can be manipulated by varying the carrier-envelope phase. This opens a wide range of possibilities for controlling correlated attosecond electron emission by an adequate pulse choice.

id: 1206.5193
title: The Role of a Polariton Bath in the Emission Spectrum of an Open Nanocavity-Quantum Dot System
authors: Nicol¨¢s Moure, Herbert Vinck-Posada, Boris A. Rodr¨ªguez
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5193
abstract: We investigate the effect of a polariton bath on the photoluminescence (PL) spectrum of the elementary excitations for a confined nanocavity-quantum dot (nC-QD) system. We modeled the nC-QD system as a two-level exciton in strong coupling with a single photonic cavity mode interacting with its environment. The non-hamiltonian processes induced by the environment are taken into account via a Born-Markov master equation which includes: gain and loss of excitons and photons into/out of the cavity, a dephasing mechanism produced by phonon scattering in the semiconductor lattice and gain and loss of polaritons due to the already mentioned polariton bath. In order to validate our phenomenological model, we fit an experimental spectrum to extract the values of all parameters appearing in the master equation. Our results show that polariton pumping and loss rates are comparable to the other parameters and therefore we have a first evidence that the polariton bath we proposed has a significant role in the dynamics of a nC-QD system.

id: 1206.5202
title: Silicon Quantum Electronics
authors: Floris A. Zwanenburg, Andrew S. Dzurak, Andrea Morello, Michelle Y. Simmons, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg, Gerhard Klimeck, Sven Rogge, Susan N. Coppersmith, Mark A. Eriksson
comments: Accepted for publication in Reviews of Modern Physics. 64 pages, 62 figures
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 85, 961 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5202
abstract: This review describes recent groundbreaking results in Si, Si/SiGe and dopant-based quantum dots, and it highlights the remarkable advances in Si-based quantum physics that have occurred in the past few years. This progress has been possible thanks to materials development for both Si quantum devices, and thanks to the physical understanding of quantum effects in silicon. Recent critical steps include the isolation of single electrons, the observation of spin blockade and single-shot read-out of individual electron spins in both dopants and gated quantum dots in Si. Each of these results has come with physics that was not anticipated from previous work in other material systems. These advances underline the significant progress towards the realization of spin quantum bits in a material with a long spin coherence time, crucial for quantum computation and spintronics.

id: 1206.5203
title: Plasmonic Nanoantennas for Efficient Control of Polarization-Entangled Photon Pairs
authors: Ivan S. Maksymov, Andrey E. Miroshnichenko, Yuri S. Kivshar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5203
abstract: We suggest a novel source of polarization-entangled photon pairs based on a cross-shaped plasmonic nanoantenna driven by a single quantum dot. The integration of the nanoantenna with a metal mirror overcomes the fundamental tradeoff between the spontaneous emission (SE) enhancement and the extraction efficiency typical of microcavity and nanowire-based architectures. With a very-high extraction efficiency of entangled photons (~90%) at 1.55 um and large SE enhancement (~90) over a broad 330 nm spectral range, the proposed design will pave the way toward reliable integrated sources of nonclassical light.

id: 1206.5227
title: Optically induced nuclear spin polarization in a single GaAs/AlGaAs quantum well probed by a resistance detection method in the fractional quantum Hall regime
authors: K. Akiba, T. Yuge, S. Kanasugi, K. Nagase, Y. Hirayama
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 235309 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5227
abstract: We study the optically pumped nuclear spin polarization in a single GaAs/AlGaAs quantum well in the quantum Hall system. We apply resistive detection via the contact hyperfine interaction, which provides high sensitivity and selectivity, to probe a small amount of polarized nuclear spins in a single well. The properties of the optical nuclear spin polarization are clearly observed. We theoretically discuss the nuclear spin dynamics accompanied with doped electrons to analyze the experimental data. The optical nuclear polarization spectra exhibit electron-spin-resolved lowest Landau level interband transitions. We find that the phonon emission process, which normally assists the optical pumping process, influences the optical nuclear spin polarization. We also discuss that the electron-electron interaction can play an important role in the optical nuclear spin polarization.

id: 1206.5395
title: Lower bound on the entropy of boundaries and junctions in 1+1d quantum critical systems
authors: Daniel Friedan, Anatoly Konechny, Cornelius Schmidt-Colinet
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, pdflatex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5395
abstract: A lower bound is derived for the boundary entropy s = ln g of a 1+1d quantum critical system with boundary, under the conditions that the bulk conformal central charge c is >=1 and the most relevant bulk scaling dimension is >(c-1)/12. This is the first general restriction on the possible values of g for bulk critical systems with c >= 1.

id: 1206.5562
title: State Transfer Between a Mechanical Oscillator and Microwave Fields in the Quantum Regime
authors: T. A. Palomaki, J. W. Harlow, J. D. Teufel, R. W. Simmonds, K. W. Lehnert
comments: 
journal: Nature 495, 210-214 2013
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5562
abstract: Recently, macroscopic mechanical oscillators have been coaxed into a regime of quantum behavior, by direct refrigeration [1] or a combination of refrigeration and laser-like cooling [2, 3]. This exciting result has encouraged notions that mechanical oscillators may perform useful functions in the processing of quantum information with superconducting circuits [1, 4-7], either by serving as a quantum memory for the ephemeral state of a microwave field or by providing a quantum interface between otherwise incompatible systems [8, 9]. As yet, the transfer of an itinerant state or propagating mode of a microwave field to and from a mechanical oscillator has not been demonstrated owing to the inability to agilely turn on and off the interaction between microwave electricity and mechanical motion. Here we demonstrate that the state of an itinerant microwave field can be coherently transferred into, stored in, and retrieved from a mechanical oscillator with amplitudes at the single quanta level. Crucially, the time to capture and to retrieve the microwave state is shorter than the quantum state lifetime of the mechanical oscillator. In this quantum regime, the mechanical oscillator can both store and transduce quantum information.

id: 1206.5608
title: Quantum Discord and Quantum Entanglement in the Background of an Asymptotically Flat Static Black Holes
authors: Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, DaeKil Park
comments: 13pages,5figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5608
abstract: The quantum discord and tripartite entanglement are discussed in the presence of an asymptotically flat static black holes. The total correlation, quantum discord and classical correlation exhibit decreasing behavior with increasing Hawking temperature. It is shown that the classical correlation is less than the quantum discord in the full range of Hawking temperature. The tripartite entanglements for Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and W-states also exhibit decreasing behavior with increasing Hawking temperature. At the infinite limit of Hawking temperature the tripartite entanglements for Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and W-states reduce to 52% and 33% of the corresponding values in the flat space limit, respectively.

id: 1206.5614
title: Particle number fractionalization of a one-dimensional atomic Fermi gas with synthetic spin-orbit coupling
authors: Dan-Wei Zhang, L.-B. Shao, Zheng-Yuan Xue, Hui Yan, Z. D. Wang, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. Accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063616 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5614
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to simulate the fractionalization of particle number by using a one-dimensional spin-orbit coupled ultracold fermionic gas. The wanted spin-orbit coupling, a kink-like potential, and a conjugation-symmetry-breaking mass term are properly constructed by laser-atom interactions, leading to an effective low-energy relativistic Dirac Hamiltonian with a topologically nontrivial background field. The designed system supports a localized soliton excitation with a fractional particle number that is generally irrational and experimentally tunable, providing a direct realization of the celebrated generalized-Su-Schrieffer-Heeger model. In addition, we elaborate on how to detect the induced soliton mode with the FPN in the system.

id: 1206.5659
title: Coherent thermal conductance in multilayer photonic crystals
authors: Maria Tschikin, Philippe Ben-Abdallah, Svend-Age Biehs
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 376, Issue 45, 1 October 2012, Pages 3462-3465
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5659
abstract: We present an exact calculation of the coherent thermal conductance in a 1-D multilayer photonic crystals (PC) using the S-matrix method. In particular, we study the thermal conductance in a bilayer structure of slabs of Si/vacuum or Al$_2$O$_3$/vacuum by means of the exact expression for the radiative heat flux. We compare our results with results obtained in previous works. Our results show that the coupling of surface modes as well as material losses play a fundamental role in the definition of the thermal conductance of PCs.

id: 1206.5665
title: How to build a gravity generator
authors: Diego Marin
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5665
abstract: This article explores a simple way to construct an electric device capable to generate an artificial gravitational field by exploiting a resonance phenomenon.

id: 1206.5719
title: Thermodynamics of Quadrature Trajectories in Open Quantum Systems
authors: James M. Hickey, Sam Genway, Igor Lesanovsky, Juan P. Garrahan
comments: 17 pages, 20 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023609 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5719
abstract: We apply a large-deviation method to study the diffusive trajectories of the quadrature operators of light within a reservoir connected to dissipative quantum systems. We formulate the study of quadrature trajectories in terms of characteristic operators and show that in the long time limit the statistics of such trajectories obey a large-deviation principle. We take our motivation from homodyne detection schemes which allow the statistics of quadrature operator of the light field to be measured. We illustrate our approach with four examples of increasing complexity: a driven two-level system, a `blinking' three-level system, a pair of weakly-coupled two-level driven systems, and the micromaser. We discuss how quadrature operators can serve as alternative order parameters for the classification of dynamical phases, which is particularly useful in cases where the statistics of quantum jumps cannot distinguish between such phases. The formalism we introduce also allows us to analyse the properties of the light emitted by quantum jump trajectories which fluctuate far from the typical dynamics.

id: 1206.5727
title: Characterizing Entropy in Statistical Physics and in Quantum Information Theory
authors: Bernhard Baumgartner
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5727
abstract: A new axiomatic characterization with a minimum of conditions for entropy as a function on the set of states in quantum mechanics is presented. Traditionally unspoken assumptions are unveiled and replaced by proven consequences of the axioms. First the Boltzmann-Planck formula is derived. Building on this formula, using the Law of Large Numbers - a basic theorem of probability theory - the von Neumann formula is deduced. Axioms used in older theories on the foundations are now derived facts.

id: 1206.5781
title: Environment Induced Time Arrow
authors: Janos Polonyi
comments: To appear in "The Time-arrow and Anthropic Principle", Open Academic Press, Berlin
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5781
abstract: The spread of the time arrows from the environment to an observed subsystem is followed within a harmonic model. A similarity is pointed out between irreversibility and a phase with spontaneously broken symmetry. The causal structure of interaction might be lost in the irreversible case, as well. The Closed Time Path formalism is developed for classical systems and shown to handle the time arrow problem in a clear and flexible manner. The quantum case is considered, as well, and the common origin of irreversibility and decoherence is pointed out.

id: 1206.5812
title: Memory-assisted exciton diffusion in the chlorosome light-harvesting antenna of green sulfur bacteria
authors: Takatoshi Fujita, Jennifer C. Brookes, Semion K. Saikin, Alan Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 3, 2357 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Subcellular Processes (q-bio.SC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5812
abstract: Chlorosomes are likely the largest and most efficient natural light-harvesting photosynthetic antenna systems. They are composed of large numbers of bacteriochlorophylls organized into supramolecular aggregates. We explore the microscopic origin of the fast excitation energy transfer in the chlorosome using the recently-resolved structure and atomistic-detail simulations. Despite the dynamical disorder effects on the electronic transitions of the bacteriochlorophylls, our simulations show that the exciton delocalizes over the entire aggregate in about 200 fs. The memory effects associated to the dynamical disorder assist the exciton diffusion through the aggregates and enhance the diffusion coefficients as a factor of two as compared to the model without memory. Furthermore, exciton diffusion in the chlorosome is found to be highly anisotropic with the preferential transfer towards the baseplate, which is the next functional element in the photosynthetic system.

id: 1206.5921
title: Experimental Investigation of the Transition between Autler-Townes Splitting and Electromagnetically-Induced Transparency
authors: L. Giner, L. Veissier, B. Sparkes, A. S. Sheremet, A. Nicolas, O. S. Mishina, M. Scherman, S. Burks, I. Shomroni, D. V. Kupriyanov, P. K. Lam, E. Giacobino, J. Laurat
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87, 1 (2013) 013823
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5921
abstract: Two phenomena can affect the transmission of a weak signal field through an absorbing medium in the presence of a strong additional field: electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) and Autler-Townes splitting (ATS). Being able to discriminate between the two is important for various applications. Here we present an experimental investigation into a method that allows for such a disambiguation as proposed in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 163604 (2011)]. We apply the proposed test based on Akaike's information criterion to a coherently driven ensemble of cold cesium atoms and find a good agreement with theoretical predictions, therefore demonstrating the suitability of the method. Additionally, our results demonstrate that the value of the Rabi frequency for the ATS/EIT model transition in such a system depends on the level structure and on the residual inhomogeneous broadening.

id: 1206.5951
title: Sidebands shifts and induced sidebands in rf-dressed Rydberg systems
authors: M. Tanasittikosol, R. M. Potvliege
comments: 34 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5951
abstract: The effect of an ac modulation on a 2-level or 3-level system is studied theoretically. The absorption spectrum is calculated by solving the optical Bloch equations and is interpreted by reference to the Floquet quasienergy spectrum. The dependence of the absorption sidebands on the intensity of the coupling laser field in Rydberg systems submitted to a radio-frequency (rf) field is analysed in detail. It is shown that for sufficiently strong coupling fields additional sidebands appear in the probe absorption spectrum in ladder 3-level systems. These additional sidebands are induced by the coupling of the intermediate state to the Floquet manifold spawned by the upper state under rf modulation.

id: 1206.5979
title: Parametric evolution, addition of boundstates and generalised Lax hierarchies
authors: C. V. Sukumar
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5979
abstract: The connection of the 'time' evolution of the eigenstates of the reflectionless potentials of the Lax hierarchy to the more general case of the 'time' evolution of the eigenstates of the Schroedinger equation for potentials with non-vanishing reflection coefficients is explored. A new hierarchy of functions satisfying 'time' dependent equations is established.

id: 1206.6045
title: Repeated quantum non-demolition measurements: convergence and continuous-time limit
authors: Michel Bauer, Tristan Benoist, Denis Bernard
comments: 44 pages, no figure
journal: Ann. H. Poincare 14 (2013) 639
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6045
abstract: We analyze general enough models of repeated indirect measurements in which a quantum system interacts repeatedly with randomly chosen probes on which Von Neumann direct measurements are performed. We prove, under suitable hypotheses, that the system state probability distribution converges after a large number of repeated indirect measurements, in a way compatible with quantum wave function collapse. Similarly a modified version of the system density matrix converges. We show that the convergence is exponential with a rate given by some relevant mean relative entropies. We also prove that, under appropriate rescaling of the system and probe interactions, the state probability distribution and the system density matrix are solutions of stochastic differential equations modeling continuous-time quantum measurements. We analyze the large time convergence of these continuous-time processes and prove convergence.

id: 1206.6046
title: Controlling the emission from semiconductor quantum dots using ultra-small tunable optical microcavities
authors: Ziyun Di, Helene V. Jones, Philip R. Dolan, Simon M. Fairclough, Matthew B Wincott, Johnny Fill, Gareth M. Hughes, Jason M. Smith
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6046
abstract: We report the control of spontaneous emission from CdSe/ZnS core-shell quantum dots coupled to novel open-access optical microcavities. The cavities are fabricated by focused ion beam milling, and provide mode volumes less than a cubic micrometre. The quantum dot emission spectrum, spatial modes, and lifetime are all modified substantially by the presence of the cavity, and can be tuned by actively varying the cavity length. An increase in emission rate of 75% is achieved at room temperature, attributed to the Purcell effect in the 'bad emitter' regime. We demonstrate a high degree of control over the emission from the dots, including near single-mode operation and the ability to detect strong emission from individual nanocrystals.

id: 1206.6047
title: Transverse electric conductivity and dielectric function in quantum Maxwellian collisional plasma by Mermin approach
authors: A. V. Latyshev, A. A. Yushkanov
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6047
abstract: Formulas for transverse conductance in quantum Maxwellian collisional plasma are deduced. The kinetic Von Neumann equation in momentum space with collision integral in the relaxation form is used. It is shown, that at Planck's constant tends to zero the derived formula transfers to the classical one. It is shown also, that when values of dimensionless wave numbers are small, the conductance formula transfers in the known formula for classical Maxwellian plasmas.

id: 1206.6052
title: Control of microwave signals using circuit nano-electromechanics
authors: Xiaoqing Zhou, Fredrik Hocke, Albert Schliesser, Achim Marx, Hans Huebl, Rudolf Gross, Tobias J. Kippenberg
comments: 9 figures
journal: Nature Physics (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6052
abstract: Waveguide resonators are crucial elements in sensitive astrophysical detectors [1] and circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) [2]. Coupled to artificial atoms in the form of superconducting qubits [3, 4], they now provide a technologically promising and scalable platform for quantum information processing tasks [2, 5-8]. Coupling these circuits, in situ, to other quantum systems, such as molecules [9, 10], spin ensembles [11, 12], quantum dots [13] or mechanical oscillators [14, 15] has been explored to realize hybrid systems with extended functionality. Here, we couple a superconducting coplanar waveguide resonator to a nano-coshmechanical oscillator, and demonstrate all-microwave field controlled slowing, advancing and switching of microwave signals. This is enabled by utilizing electromechanically induced transparency [16-18], an effect analogous to electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in atomic physics [19]. The exquisite temporal control gained over this phenomenon provides a route towards realizing advanced protocols for storage of both classical and quantum microwave signals [20-22], extending the toolbox of control techniques of the microwave field.

id: 1206.6060
title: Overlapping Resonances Interference-induced Transparency: The $S_0 \to S_2/S_1$ Photoexcitation Spectrum of Pyrazine
authors: Timur Grinev, Moshe Shapiro, Paul Brumer
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 094302 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6060
abstract: The phenomenon of "overlapping resonances interference-induced transparency" (ORIT) is introduced and studied in detail for the $S_0 \to S_2/S_1$ photoexcitation of cold pyrazine (C$_4$H$_4$N$_2$). In ORIT a molecule becomes transparent at specific wavelengths due to interferences between envelopes of spectral lines displaying overlapping resonances. An example is the $S_2\leftrightarrow S_1$ internal conversion in pyrazine where destructive interference between overlapping resonances causes the $S_0 \to S_2/S_1$ light absorption to disappear at certain wavelengths. ORIT may be of practical importance in multi-component mixtures where it would allow for the selective excitation of some molecules in preference to others. Interference induced cross section enhancement is also shown.

id: 1206.6169
title: Non-equilibrium states of a photon cavity pumped by an atomic beam
authors: Bruno Nachtergaele, Anna Vershynina, Valentin A. Zagrebnov
comments: Corrected energy production calculations and made some changes to ease the reading
journal: Ann. Henri Poincare', 15, 213-262 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6169
abstract: We consider a beam of two-level randomly excited atoms that pass one-by-one through a one-mode cavity. We show that in the case of an ideal cavity, i.e. no leaking of photons from the cavity, the pumping by the beam leads to an unlimited increase in the photon number in the cavity. We derive an expression for the mean photon number for all times. Taking into account leaking of the cavity, we prove that the mean photon number in the cavity stabilizes in time. The limiting state of the cavity in this case exists and it is independent of the initial state. We calculate the characteristic functional of this non-quasi-free non-equilibrium state. We also calculate the energy flux in both the ideal and open cavity and the entropy production for the ideal cavity.

id: 1206.6290
title: Emergent spacetime and empirical (in)coherence
authors: Nick Huggett, Christian Wuthrich
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure, accepted for publication in Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: Studies in the History and Philosophy of Modern Physics 44 (2013): 276-285
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6290
abstract: Numerous approaches to a quantum theory of gravity posit fundamental ontologies that exclude spacetime, either partially or wholly. This situation raises deep questions about how such theories could relate to the empirical realm, since arguably only entities localized in spacetime can ever be observed. Are such entities even possible in a theory without fundamental spacetime? How might they be derived, formally speaking? Moreover, since by assumption the fundamental entities can't be smaller than the derived (since relative size is a spatiotemporal notion) and so can't 'compose' them in any ordinary sense, would a formal derivation actually show the physical reality of localized entities? We address these questions via a survey of a range of theories of quantum gravity, and generally sketch how they may be answered positively.

id: 1206.6299
title: Evaluation of the importance of spin-orbit couplings in the nonadiabatic quantum dynamics with quantum fidelity and with its efficient "on-the-fly" ab initio semiclassical approximation
authors: Tomas Zimmermann, Jiri Vanicek
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, submitted to J. Chem. Phys
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 22A516 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6299
abstract: We propose to measure the importance of spin-orbit couplings (SOCs) in the nonadiabatic molecular quantum dynamics rigorously with quantum fidelity. To make the criterion practical, quantum fidelity is estimated efficiently with the multiple-surface dephasing representation (MSDR). The MSDR is a semiclassical method that includes nuclear quantum effects through interference of mixed quantum-classical trajectories without the need for the Hessian of potential energy surfaces. Two variants of the MSDR are studied, in which the nuclei are propagated either with the fewest-switches surface hopping or with the locally mean field dynamics. The fidelity criterion and MSDR are first tested on one-dimensional model systems amenable to numerically exact quantum dynamics. Then, the MSDR is combined with "on-the-fly" computed electronic structure to measure the importance of SOCs and nonadiabatic couplings (NACs) in the photoisomerization dynamics of CH2NH2+ considering 20 electronic states and in the collision of F + H2 considering six electronic states.

id: 1206.6348
title: Loschmidt Echo
authors: Arseni Goussev, Rodolfo A. Jalabert, Horacio M. Pastawski, Diego Wisniacki
comments: 
journal: Scholarpedia 7(8), 11687 (2012)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6348
abstract: In this article we review the past, present, and future of the Loschmidt Echo.

id: 1206.6559
title: The quantum geometric limit
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 13 pages, LaTeX. This version updated with figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0505064
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6559
abstract: In Einstein's gedankenexperiment for measuring space and time, an ensemble of clocks moving through curved spacetime measures geometry by sending signals back and forth, as in the global positioning system (GPS). Combining well-known quantum limits to measurement with the requirement that the energy density of clocks and signals be be no greater than the black hole density leads to the quantum geometric limit: the total number of ticks of clocks and clicks of detectors that can be contained in a four volume of spacetime of radius r and temporal extent t is less than or equal to rt/\pi l_P t_P, where l_P, t_P are the Planck length and time. The quantum geometric limit suggests that each event or `op' that takes place in a four-volume of spacetime is associated with a Planck-scale area. This paper shows that the quantum geometric limit can be used to derive general relativity: if each quantum event is associated with a Planck-scale area removed from two-dimensional surfaces in the volume in which the event takes place, then Einstein's equations must hold.

id: 1206.6622
title: Twisted electron in a strong laser wave
authors: Dmitry V. Karlovets
comments: to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062102 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6622
abstract: Electrons carrying orbital angular momentum (OAM) have recently been discovered theoretically and obtained experimentally that opens up possibilities for using them in high-energy physics. We consider such a twisted electron moving in external field of a plane electromagnetic wave and study how this field influences the electron's OAM. Being motivated by the development of high-power lasers, we focus our attention on a classically strong field regime for which $-e^2 \bar {A^2}/m_e^2 c^4 \gtrsim 1$. It is shown that along with the well-known "plane-wave" Volkov solution, Dirac equation also has the "non-plane-wave" solutions, which possess OAM and a spin-orbit coupling, and generalize the free-electron's Bessel states. Motion of the electron with OAM in a circularly polarized laser wave reveals a twofold character: the wave-packet center moves along a classical helical trajectory with some quantum transverse broadening (due to OAM) existing even for a free electron. Using the twisted states, we calculate the electron's total angular momentum and predict its shift in the strong-field regime that is analogous to the well-known shifts of the electron's momentum and mass (and to a less known shift of its spin) in intense fields. Since the electron's effective angular momentum is conserved in a plane wave, as well as in some more general field configurations, we discuss several possibilities for accelerating non-relativistic twisted electrons by using the focused and combined electromagnetic fields.

id: 1206.6740
title: Dynamics of cold bosons in optical lattices: Effects of higher Bloch bands
authors: Mateusz Lacki, Dominique Delande, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: 23 corrected interesting pages, no Higgs boson inside
journal: New J. Phys. 15 013062 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6740
abstract: The extended effective multiorbital Bose-Hubbard-type Hamiltonian which takes into account higher Bloch bands, is discussed for boson systems in optical lattices, with emphasis on dynamical properties, in relation with current experiments. It is shown that the renormalization of Hamiltonian parameters depends on the dimension of the problem studied. Therefore, mean field phase diagrams do not scale with the coordination number of the lattice. The effect of Hamiltonian parameters renormalization on the dynamics in reduced one-dimensional optical lattice potential is analyzed. We study both the quasi-adiabatic quench through the superfluid-Mott insulator transition and the absorption spectroscopy, that is energy absorption rate when the lattice depth is periodically modulated.

id: 1206.6771
title: The analogy between optical pulse compression and optical coherence transformation
authors: M. V. Lebedev
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6771
abstract: A new type of an optical interferometer is discussed the phase difference between the interfering beams in which is substantially wavelength dependent. It is shown that the function measured with this device is an integral transform of the field correlation function. Possible applications for data encoding and spectral linewidth measurements are considered.

id: 1206.6946
title: Measurement-induced qubit state mixing in circuit QED from up-converted dephasing noise
authors: D. H. Slichter, R. Vijay, S. J. Weber, S. Boutin, M. Boissonneault, J. M. Gambetta, A. Blais, I. Siddiqi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Final journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 153601 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6946
abstract: We observe measurement-induced qubit state mixing in a transmon qubit dispersively coupled to a planar readout cavity. Our results indicate that dephasing noise at the qubit-readout detuning frequency is up-converted by readout photons to cause spurious qubit state transitions, thus limiting the nondemolition character of the readout. Furthermore, we use the qubit transition rate as a tool to extract an equivalent flux noise spectral density at f ~ 1 GHz and find agreement with values extrapolated from a $1/f^\alpha$ fit to the measured flux noise spectral density below 1 Hz.

id: 1206.7010
title: Quantum simulation of small-polaron formation with trapped ions
authors: Vladimir M. Stojanovic, Tao Shi, C. Bruder, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 250501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.7010
abstract: We propose a quantum simulation of small-polaron physics using a one-dimensional system of trapped ions acted upon by off-resonant standing waves. This system, envisioned as an array of microtraps, in the single-excitation case allows the realization of the anti-adiabatic regime of the Holstein model. We show that the strong excitation-phonon coupling regime, characterized by the formation of small polarons, can be reached using realistic values of the relevant system parameters. Finally, we propose measurements of the quasiparticle residue and the average number of phonons in the ground state, experimental probes validating the polaronic character of the phonon-dressed excitation.

id: 1206.7054
title: Electric field sensing near the surface microstructure of an atom chip using cold Rydberg atoms
authors: J. D. Carter, O. Cherry, J. D. D. Martin
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053401 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.7054
abstract: The electric fields near the heterogeneous metal/dielectric surface of an atom chip were measured using cold atoms. The atomic sensitivity to electric fields was enhanced by exciting the atoms to Rydberg states that are 10^8 times more polarizable than the ground state. We attribute the measured fields to charging of the insulators between the atom chip wires. Surprisingly, it is observed that these fields may be dramatically lowered with appropriate voltage biasing, suggesting configurations for the future development of hybrid quantum systems.

id: 1206.7091
title: Magic radio-frequency dressing of nuclear spins in high-accuracy optical clocks
authors: Thomas Zanon-Willette, Emeric de Clercq, Ennio Arimondo
comments: accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. Vol 109, 223003 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.7091
abstract: A Zeeman-insensitive optical clock atomic transition is engineered when nuclear spins are dressed by a non resonant radio-frequency field. For fermionic species as $^{87}$Sr, $^{171}$Yb, and $^{199}$Hg, particular ratios between the radiofrequency driving amplitude and frequency lead to "magic" magnetic values where a net cancelation of the Zeeman clock shift and a complete reduction of first order magnetic variations are produced within a relative uncertainty below the $10^{-18}$ level. An Autler-Townes continued fraction describing a semi-classical radio-frequency dressed spin is numerically computed and compared to an analytical quantum description including higher order magnetic field corrections to the dressed energies.

id: 1206.7092
title: Dynamics of magnetic moments coupled to electrons and lattice oscillations
authors: B. Mera, V. R. Vieira, V. K. Dugaev
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 184419 (2013)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.7092
abstract: Inspired by the models of A. Rebei and G. J. Parker and A. Rebei et. al., we study a physical model which describes the behaviour of magnetic moments in a ferromagnet. The magnetic moments are associated to 3d electrons which interact with conduction band electrons and with phonons. We study each interaction separately and then collect the results assuming that the electron-phonon interaction can be neglected. For the case of the spin-phonon interaction, we study the derivation of the equations of motion for the classical spin vector and find that the correct behaviour, as given by the Brown equation for the spin vector and the Bloch equation, using the results obtained by D. A. Garanin for the average over fluctuations of the spin vector, can be obtained in the high temperature limit. At finite temperatures we show that the Markovian approximation for the fluctuations is not correct for time scales below some thermal correlation time $\tau_{Th}$. For the case of electrons we workout a perturbative expansion of the Feynman-Vernon functional. We find the expression for the random field correlation function. The composite model (as well as the individual models) is shown to satisfy a fluctuation-dissipation theorem for all temperature regimes if the behaviour of the coupling constants of the phonon-spin interaction remains unchanged with the temperature. The equations of motion are derived.

