id: 1207.0012
title: Semiclassical Coherent States propagator
authors: Alejandro M.F Rivas
comments: 13 pages, 2 figure. Accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0012
abstract: In this work, we derived a semiclassical approximation for the matrix elements of a quantum propagator in coherent states (CS) basis that avoids complex trajectories, it only involves real ones. For that propose, we used the, symplectically invariant, semiclassical Weyl propagator obtained by performing a stationary phase approximation (SPA) for the path integral in the Weyl representation. After what, for the transformation to CS representation SPA is avoided, instead a quadratic expansion of the complex exponent is used. This procedure also allows to express the semiclassical CS propagator uniquely in terms of the classical evolution of the initial point, without the need of any root search typical of Van Vleck Gutzwiller based propagators. For the case of chaotic Hamiltonian systems, the explicit time dependence of the CS propagator has been obtained. The comparison with a \textquotedbl{}realistic\textquotedbl{} chaotic system that derives from a quadratic Hamiltonian, the cat map, reveals that the expression here derived is exact up to quadratic Hamiltonian systems.

id: 1207.0046
title: Approximation of real error channels by Clifford channels and Pauli measurements
authors: Mauricio Guti¨¦rrez, Lukas Svec, Alexander Vargo, Kenneth R. Brown
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0046
abstract: The Gottesman-Knill theorem allows for the efficient simulation of stabilizer-based quantum error-correction circuits. Errors in these circuits are commonly modeled as depolarizing channels by using Monte Carlo methods to insert Pauli gates randomly throughout the circuit. Although convenient, these channels are poor approximations of common, realistic channels like amplitude damping. Here we analyze a larger set of efficiently simulable error channels by allowing the random insertion of any one-qubit gate or measurement that can be efficiently simulated within the stabilizer formalism. Our new error channels are shown to be a viable method for accurately approximating real error channels.

id: 1207.0053
title: Cavity-assisted quantum bath engineering
authors: K. W. Murch, U. Vool, D. Zhou, S. J. Weber, S. M. Girvin, I. Siddiqi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 183602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0053
abstract: We demonstrate quantum bath engineering for a superconducting artificial atom coupled to a microwave cavity. By tailoring the spectrum of microwave photon shot noise in the cavity, we create a dissipative environment that autonomously relaxes the atom to an arbitrarily specified coherent superposition of the ground and excited states. In the presence of background thermal excitations, this mechanism increases the state purity and effectively cools the dressed atom state to a low temperature.

id: 1207.0059
title: State-independent experimental test of quantum contextuality in an indivisible system
authors: C. Zu, Y.-X. Wang, D.-L. Deng, X.-Y. Chang, K. Liu, P.-Y. Hou, H.-X. Yang, L.-M. Duan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0059
abstract: We report the first state-independent experimental test of quantum contextuality on a single photonic qutrit (three-dimensional system), based on a recent theoretical proposal [Yu and Oh, Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 030402 (2012)]. Our experiment spotlights quantum contextuality in its most basic form, in a way that is independent of either the state or the tensor product structure of the system.

id: 1207.0061
title: Statistical description of small quantum systems beyond weak-coupling limit
authors: Wen-ge Wang
comments: 9 pages, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.E 86,011115 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0061
abstract: An explicit expression is derived for the statistical description of small quantum systems, which are relatively-weakly and directly coupled to only small parts of their environments. The derived expression has a canonical form, but is given by a renormalized self-Hamiltonian of the studied system, which appropriately takes into account the influence of the system-environment interaction. In the case that the system has a narrow spectrum and the environment is sufficiently large, the modification to the self-Hamiltonian usually has a mean-field feature, given by an environmental average of the interaction Hamiltonian. In other cases, the modification may be beyond the mean-field approximation.

id: 1207.0062
title: Physical Wigner functions
authors: Carlos L. Benavides-Riveros, Jos¨¦ M. Gracia-Bond¨ªa
comments: Latex, 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022118 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0062
abstract: In spite of their potential usefulness, the characterizations of Wigner functions for Bose and Fermi statistics given by O'Connell and Wigner himself almost thirty years ago has drawn little attention. With an eye towards applications in quantum chemistry, we revisit and reformulate them in a more convenient way.

id: 1207.0067
title: A decoupling approach to classical data transmission over quantum channels
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis, Oleg Szehr, Marco Tomamichel
comments: 
journal: IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory 60 (3), p. 1562-1572 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0067
abstract: Most coding theorems in quantum Shannon theory can be proven using the decoupling technique: to send data through a channel, one guarantees that the environment gets no information about it; Uhlmann's theorem then ensures that the receiver must be able to decode. While a wide range of problems can be solved this way, one of the most basic coding problems remains impervious to a direct application of this method: sending classical information through a quantum channel. We will show that this problem can, in fact, be solved using decoupling ideas, specifically by proving a "dequantizing" theorem, which ensures that the environment is only classically correlated with the sent data. Our techniques naturally yield a generalization of the Holevo-Schumacher-Westmoreland Theorem to the one-shot scenario, where a quantum channel can be applied only once.

id: 1207.0085
title: Secret key rates for coherent attacks
authors: Markus Mertz, Hermann Kampermann, Sylvia Bratzik, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012315 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0085
abstract: We develop a new method to quantify the secret key rate for permutation-invariant protocols for coherent attacks and finite resources. The method reduces the calculation of secret key rates for coherent attacks to the calculation for collective attacks by bounding the smooth min-entropy of permutation-invariant states via the smooth min-entropy of corresponding tensor-product states. The comparison of the results to the well-known post-selection technique for the BB84 and six-state protocol shows the high relevance of this method. Since our calculation of secret key rates for coherent attacks strongly depends on the way of treating collective attacks, a prospective progress in the analysis of collective attacks will immediately cause progress in our strategy.

id: 1207.0090
title: Quantum Electrodynamics near a Huttner-Barnett dielectric
authors: Claudia Eberlein, Robert Zietal
comments: 25 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0090
abstract: We build up a consistent theory of quantum electrodynamics in the presence of macroscopic polarizable media. We use the Huttner-Barnett model of a dispersive and absorbing dielectric medium and formulate the theory in terms of interacting quantum fields. We integrate out the damped polaritons by using diagrammatic techniques and find an exact expression for the displacement field (photon) propagator in the presence of a dispersive and absorbing dielectric half-space. This opens a new route to traceable perturbative calculations of the same kind as in free-space quantum electrodynamics. As a worked-through example we consider the interaction of a neutral atom with a dispersive and absorbing dielectric half-space. For that we use the multipolar coupling $\boldsymbol{\mu}\cdot\mathbf{D}$ of the atomic dipole moment to the electromagnetic displacement field. We apply the newly developed formalism to calculate the one-loop correction to the atomic electron propagator and find the energy-level shift and changes in the spontaneous decay rates for a neutral atom close to an absorptive dielectric mirror.

id: 1207.0130
title: The Helmholtz Wave Potential: a non-probabilistic insight into Wave Mechanics
authors: Adriano Orefice, Raffaele Giovanelli, Domenico Ditto
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures. Title modified and text revised. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1202.6225
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0130
abstract: The behavior of classical monochromatic waves in stationary media is shown to be ruled by a novel, frequency-dependent function which we call Wave Potential, and which we show to be encoded in the structure of the Helmholtz equation. An exact, Hamiltonian, ray-based kinematical treatment, reducing to the usual eikonal approximation in the absence of Wave Potential, shows that its presence induces a mutual, perpendicular ray-coupling, which is the one and only cause of wave-like phenomena such as diffraction and interference. The Wave Potential, whose discovery does already constitute a striking novelty in the case of classical waves, turns out to play an even more important role in the quantum case. Recalling, indeed, that the time-independent Schroedinger equation (associating the motion of mono-energetic particles with stationary monochromatic matter waves) is itself a Helmholtz-like equation, the exact, ray-based treatment developed in the classical case is extended - without resorting to statistical concepts - to the exact, trajectory-based Hamiltonian dynamics of mono-energetic point-like particles. Exact, classical-looking particle trajectories may be defined, contrary to common belief, and turn out to be perpendicularly coupled by an exact, energy-dependent Wave Potential, similar in the form, but not in the physical meaning, to the statistical, energy-independent "Quantum Potential" of Bohm's theory, which is affected, as is well known, by the practical necessity of representing particles by means of statistical wave packets, moving along probability flux lines. This result, together with the connection shown to exist between Wave Potential and Uncertainty Principle, allows a novel, non-probabilistic interpretation of Wave Mechanics.

id: 1207.0168
title: Complete hyperentangled-Bell-state analysis for photon systems assisted by quantum-dot spins in optical microcavities
authors: Bao-Cang Ren, Hai-Rui Wei, Ming Hua, Tao Li, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 11 pages (in one column), 5 figures
journal: Optics Express 20, 24664-24677 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0168
abstract: Bell-state analysis (BSA) is essential in quantum communication, but it is impossible to distinguish unambiguously the four Bell states in the polarization degree of freedom (DOF) of two-photon systems with only linear optical elements, except for the case in which the BSA is assisted with hyperentangled states, the simultaneous entanglement in more than one DOF. Here, we propose a scheme to distinguish completely the 16 hyperentangled Bell states in both the polarization and the spatial-mode DOFs of two-photon systems, by using the giant nonlinear optics in quantum dot-cavity systems. This scheme can be applied to increase the channel capacity of long-distance quantum communication based on hyperentanglement, such as entanglement swapping, teleportation, and superdense coding. We use hyperentanglement swapping as an example to show the application of this HBSA.

id: 1207.0183
title: Minimax mean estimator for the trine
authors: Hui Khoon Ng, Kia Tan Benjamin Phuah, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 085007 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0183
abstract: We explore the question of state estimation for a qubit restricted to the $x$-$z$ plane of the Bloch sphere, with the trine measurement. In our earlier work [H. K. Ng and B.-G. Englert, eprint arXiv:1202.5136[quant-ph] (2012)], similarities between quantum tomography and the tomography of a classical die motivated us to apply a simple modification of the classical estimator for use in the quantum problem. This worked very well. In this article, we adapt a different aspect of the classical estimator to the quantum problem. In particular, we investigate the mean estimator, where the mean is taken with a weight function identical to that in the classical estimator but now with quantum constraints imposed. Among such mean estimators, we choose an optimal one with the smallest worst-case error-the minimax mean estimator-and compare its performance with that of other estimators. Despite the natural generalization of the classical approach, this minimax mean estimator does not work as well as one might expect from the analogous performance in the classical problem. While it outperforms the often-used maximum-likelihood estimator in having a smaller worst-case error, the advantage is not significant enough to justify the more complicated procedure required to construct it. The much simpler adapted estimator introduced in our earlier work is still more effective. Our previous work emphasized the similarities between classical and quantum state estimation; in contrast, this paper highlights how intuition gained from classical problems can sometimes fail in the quantum arena.

id: 1207.0214
title: On the spin-1/2 Aharonov-Bohm problem in conical space: bound states, scattering and helicity nonconservation
authors: F. M. Andrade, E. O. Silva, M. Pereira
comments: 19 pages, 1 table. Matches published version. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1112.0265, arXiv:1203.3096
journal: Annals of Physics 339, 510 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0214
abstract: In this work the bound state and scattering problems for a spin-1/2 particle undergone to an Aharonov-Bohm potential in a conical space in the nonrelativistic limit are considered. The presence of a \delta-function singularity, which comes from the Zeeman spin interaction with the magnetic flux tube, is addressed by the self-adjoint extension method. One of the advantages of the present approach is the determination of the self-adjoint extension parameter in terms of physics of the problem. Expressions for the energy bound states, phase-shift and $S$ matrix are determined in terms of the self-adjoint extension parameter, which is explicitly determined in terms of the parameters of the problem. The relation between the bound state and zero modes and the failure of helicity conservation in the scattering problem and its relation with the gyromagnetic ratio $g$ are discussed. Also, as an application, we consider the spin-1/2 Aharonov-Bohm problem in conical space plus a two-dimensional isotropic harmonic oscillator.

id: 1207.0253
title: Generating and verifying graph states for fault-tolerant topological measurement-based quantum computing in 2D optical lattices
authors: Jaewoo Joo, Emilio Alba, Juan Jos¨¦ Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, Timothy P. Spiller
comments: 6 pages and 4 figures (minor changed)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0253
abstract: We propose two schemes for implementing graph states useful for fault-tolerant topological measurement-based quantum computation in 2D optical lattices. We show that bilayer cluster and surface code states can be created by global single-row and controlled-Z operations. The schemes benefit from the accessibility of atom addressing on 2D optical lattices and the existence of an efficient verification protocol which allows us to ensure the experimental feasibility of measuring the fidelity of the system against the ideal graph state. The simulation results show potential for a physical realization toward fault-tolerant measurement-based quantum computation against dephasing and unitary phase errors in optical lattices.

id: 1207.0256
title: The classical capacity of quantum thermal noise channels to within 1.45 bits
authors: Robert Koenig, Graeme Smith
comments: Two pages plus a bit
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 040501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0256
abstract: We find a tight upper bound for the classical capacity of quantum thermal noise channels that is within $1/\ln 2$ bits of Holevo's lower bound. This lower bound is achievable using unentangled, classical signal states, namely displaced coherent states. Thus, we find that while quantum tricks might offer benefits, when it comes to classical communication they can only help a bit.

id: 1207.0277
title: Various Correlations in Anisotropic Heisenberg XYZ Model with Dzyaloshinski-Moriya Interaction
authors: Mamtimin Tursun, Ahmad Abliz, Rabigul Mamtimin, Ablimt Abliz, Pan Pan-Qiao
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: CHIN. PHYS. LETT. Vol. 30, No. 3 (2013) 030303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0277
abstract: Various thermal correlations as well as the effect of intrinsic decoherence on the correlations are studied in a two-qubit Heisenberg XYZ spin chain with the Dzyaloshinski--Moriya (DM) interaction along the z direction, i.e. Dz. It is found that tunable parameter Dz may play a constructive role on the concurrence (C), classical correlation (CC) and quantum discord (QD) in thermal equilibrium while it plays a destructive role on the correlations in the intrinsic decoherence case. The entanglement and quantum discord exhibit collapse and revival under the phase decoherence. With a proper combination of the system parameters, the correlations can effectively be kept at high steady state values despite the intrinsic decoherence.

id: 1207.0303
title: Mutual information and Bose-Einstein condensation
authors: C. N. Gagatsos, A. I. Karanikas, G. I. Kordas
comments: 
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 20, 1350008 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0303
abstract: In the present work we are studying a bosonic quantum field system at finite temperature, and at zero and non-zero chemical potential. For a simple spatial partition we derive the corresponding mutual information, a quantity that measures the total amount of information of one of the parts about the other. In order to find it, we first derive the geometric entropy corresponding to the specific partition and then we substract its extensive part which coincides with the thermal entropy of the system. In the case of non-zero chemical potential, we examine the influence of the underlying Bose-Einstein condensation on the behavior of the mutual information, and we find that its thermal derivative possesses a finite discontinuity at exactly the critical temperature.

id: 1207.0305
title: Spatial and spectral properties of the pulsed second-harmonic generation in a PP-KTP waveguide
authors: Radek Machulka, Ji?¨ª Svozil¨ªk, Jan Soubusta, Jan Pe?ina Jr, Ond?ej Haderka
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87 013836 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0305
abstract: Spatial and spectral properties of the pulsed second harmonic generation in a periodically-poled KTP waveguide exploiting simultaneously the first, second, and third harmonics of periodic nonlinear modulation are analyzed. Experimental results are interpreted using a model based on finite elements method. Correlations between spatial and spectral properties of the fundamental and second-harmonic fields are revealed. Individual nonlinear processes can be exploited combining spatial and spectral filtering. Also the influence of waveguide parameters to the second-harmonic spectra is addressed.

id: 1207.0336
title: Casimir Energy and Entropy between perfect metal Spheres
authors: Pablo Rodriguez-Lopez
comments: 10 pages and 8 figures. Accepted for publication in the Proceedings of the tenth conference on Quantum Field Theory under the influence of external conditions - QFEXT'11
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0336
abstract: We calculate the Casimir energy and entropy for two perfect metal spheres in the large and short separation limit. We obtain nonmonotonic behavior of the Helmholtz free energy with separation and temperature, leading to parameter ranges with negative entropy, and also nonmonotonic behavior of the entropy with temperature and with the separation between the spheres. The appearance of this anomalous behavior of the entropy is discussed as well as its thermodynamic consequences.

id: 1207.0358
title: Scalable reconstruction of density matrices
authors: Tillmann Baumgratz, David Gross, Marcus Cramer, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 020401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0358
abstract: Recent contributions in the field of quantum state tomography have shown that, despite the exponential growth of Hilbert space with the number of subsystems, tomography of one-dimensional quantum systems may still be performed efficiently by tailored reconstruction schemes. Here, we discuss a scalable method to reconstruct mixed states that are well approximated by matrix product operators. The reconstruction scheme only requires local information about the state, giving rise to a reconstruction technique that is scalable in the system size. It is based on a constructive proof that generic matrix product operators are fully determined by their local reductions. We discuss applications of this scheme for simulated data and experimental data obtained in an ion trap experiment.

id: 1207.0374
title: Trace formulae for non-equilibrium Casimir interactions, heat radiation and heat transfer for arbitrary objects
authors: Matthias Kr¨¹ger, Giuseppe Bimonte, Thorsten Emig, Mehran Kardar
comments: 29 pages, 6 figures (v2: Sentence added in Sec. 1)
journal: Phys Rev. B 86, 115423 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0374
abstract: We present a detailed derivation of heat radiation, heat transfer and (Casimir) interactions for N arbitrary objects in the framework of fluctuational electrodynamics in thermal non-equilibrium. The results can be expressed as basis-independent trace formulae in terms of the scattering operators of the individual objects. We prove that heat radiation of a single object is positive, and that heat transfer (for two arbitrary passive objects) is from the hotter to a colder body. The heat transferred is also symmetric, exactly reversed if the two temperatures are exchanged. Introducing partial wave-expansions, we transform the results for radiation, transfer and forces into traces of matrices that can be evaluated in any basis, analogous to the equilibrium Casimir force. The method is illustrated by (re)deriving the heat radiation of a plate, a sphere and a cylinder. We analyze the radiation of a sphere for different materials, emphasizing that a simplification often employed for metallic nano-spheres is typically invalid. We derive asymptotic formulae for heat transfer and non-equilibrium interactions for the cases of a sphere in front a plate and for two spheres, extending previous results. As an example, we show that a hot nano-sphere can levitate above a plate with the repulsive non-equilibrium force overcoming gravity -- an effect that is not due to radiation pressure.

id: 1207.0392
title: Three-intensity decoy state method for device independent quantum key distribution with basis dependent errors
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: Published version with Eq.(17) corrected. We emphasize that our major result (Eq.16) for the decoy-state part can be applied to generate a key rate very close to the ideal case of using infinite different coherent states, as was numerically demonstrated in Ref.[21]. Published in PRA, 2013, Jan
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 87, 012320 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0392
abstract: We study the measurement device independent quantum key distribution (MDIQKD) in practice with limited resource, when there are only 3 different states in implementing the decoy-state method and when there are basis dependent coding errors. We present general formulas for the decoy-state method for two-pulse sources with 3 different states, which can be applied to the recently proposed MDIQKD with imperfect single-photon source such as the coherent states or the heralded states from the parametric down conversion. We point out that the existing result for secure QKD with source coding errors does not always hold. We find that very accurate source coding is not necessary. In particular, we loosen the precision of existing result by several magnitude orders for secure QKD.

id: 1207.0395
title: Dynamics of relaxation, decoherence and entropy of a qubit in anisotropic photonic crystals
authors: Jing-Nuo Wu, Hung-Kuang Chen, Wen-Feng Hsieh, Szu-Cheng Cheng
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0395
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of relaxation, decoherence and entropy of a qubit embedded in an anisotropic photonic crystal (PhC) through fractional calculus. These quantum measurements are investigated by analytically solving the fractional Langevin equation. The qubit with frequency lying inside the photonic band gap (PBG) exhibits the preserving behavior of energy, coherence and information amount through the steady values of excited-state probability, polarization oscillation and von Neumann entropy. This preservation does not exist in the Markovian system with qubit frequency lying outside the PBG region. These accurate results are based on the appropriate mathematical method of fractional calculus and reasonable inference of physical phenomena.

id: 1207.0434
title: Laws of thermodynamics beyond the von Neumann regime
authors: Dario Egloff, Oscar C. O. Dahlsten, Renato Renner, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 22 pages (5+17), 5 figures. Changes in version 2: We added a protocol that achieves the bound. We strengthened the claims concerning the second law. We also made various small presentational changes. We welcome comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0434
abstract: A recent development in information theory is the generalisation of quantum Shannon information theory to the operationally motivated smooth entropy information theory, which originates in quantum cryptography research. In a series of papers the first steps have been taken towards creating a statistical mechanics based on smooth entropy information theory. This approach turns out to allow us to answer questions one might not have thought were possible in statistical mechanics, such as how much work one can extract in a given realisation, as a function of the failure-probability. This is in contrast to the standard approach which makes statements about average work. Here we formulate the laws of thermodynamics that this new approach gives rise to. We show in particular that the Second Law needs to be tightened. The new laws are motivated by our main quantitative result which states how much work one can extract or must invest in order to affect a given state change with a given probability of success. For systems composed of very large numbers of identical and uncorrelated subsystems, which we call the von Neumann regime, we recover the standard von Neumann entropy statements.

id: 1207.0441
title: MHz rate and efficient synchronous heralding of single photons at telecom wavelengths
authors: Enrico Pomarico, Bruno Sanguinetti, Thiago Guerreiro, Rob Thew, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Optics Express 20, 23846 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0441
abstract: We report on the realization of a synchronous source of heralded single photons at telecom wavelengths with MHz heralding rates and high heralding efficiency. This source is based on the generation of photon pairs at 810 and 1550 nm via Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion (SPDC) in a 1 cm periodically poled lithium niobate (PPLN) crystal pumped by a 532 nm pulsed laser. As high rates are fundamental for multi-photon experiments, we show that single telecom photons can be announced at 4.4MHz rate with 45% heralding efficiency. When we focus only on the optimization of the coupling of the heralded photon, the heralding efficiency can be increased up to 80%. Furthermore, we experimentally observe that group velocity mismatch inside long crystals pumped in a pulsed mode affects the spectrum of the emitted photons and their fibre coupling efficiency. The length of the crystal in this source has been chosen as a trade off between high brightness and high coupling efficiency.

id: 1207.0452
title: Simulation of Jahn-Teller-Dicke Magnetic Structural Phase Transition with Trapped Ions
authors: Peter A. Ivanov, Diego Porras, Svetoslav S. Ivanov, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0452
abstract: We study theoretically the collective E$\otimes$e Jahn-Teller-Dicke distortion in a system of trapped ions. We focus in the limit of infinite range interactions in which an ensemble of effective spins interacts with two collective vibrational modes with U(1) symmetric couplings. Our model is exactly solvable in the thermodynamical limit and it is amenable to be solved by exact numerical diagonalization for a moderate number of ions. We show that trapped ions are ideally suited to study the emergence of spontaneous symmetry breaking of a continuous symmetry and magnetic structural phase transition in a mesoscopic system.

id: 1207.0464
title: Effect of photonic band gap on entanglement dynamics of qubits
authors: Jing-Nuo Wu, Wen-Feng Hsieh, Szu-Cheng Cheng
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0464
abstract: We study how the environment of photonic band gap (PBG) materials affects entanglement dynamics of qubits. Entanglement between the single qubit and the PBG environment is investigated through the von Neumann entropy while that for two initially entangled qubits in this PBG reservoir is through concurrence. Dynamics of these measurements are solved in use of the fractional calculus which has been shown appropriate for the systems with non-Markovian dynamics. Entropy dynamics of the single qubit system reveals that the coupling with the PBG reservoir prevents decoherence of the qubit through the steady entropy with non-zero value. The effect of PBG reservoir on the concurrence of the two-qubit system leads to the long-time entanglement preservation. The concurrence dynamics shows that unphysical entanglement trapping does not exist in the system with the qubit frequency lying outside the PBG region. Long-time memory effect of the PBG reservoir occurs only for the qubit frequency in the PBG region. Entanglement mechanisms resulting from this long-time memory effect are discussed.

id: 1207.0479
title: Topological Subsystem Codes From Graphs and Hypergraphs
authors: Pradeep Sarvepalli, Kenneth R. Brown
comments: LaTeX, 14 pages
journal: Phy. Rev A 86, 042336, (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0479
abstract: Topological subsystem codes were proposed by Bombin based on 3-face-colorable cubic graphs. Suchara, Bravyi and Terhal generalized this construction and proposed a method to construct topological subsystem codes using 3-valent hypergraphs that satisfy certain constraints. Finding such hypergraphs and computing their parameters however is a nontrivial task. We propose families of topological subsystem codes that were previously not known. In particular, our constructions give codes which cannot be derived from Bombin's construction. We also study the error recovery schemes for the proposed subsystem codes and give detailed schedules for the syndrome measurement that take advantage of the 2-locality of the gauge group. The study also leads to a new and general construction for color codes.

id: 1207.0494
title: Parity Measurement is Sufficient for Phase Estimation at the Quantum Cramer-Rao Bound for Path-Symmetric States
authors: Sejong Kim, Kaushik P. Seshadreesan, Jonathan P. Dowling, Hwang Lee
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87, 043833 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0494
abstract: In this letter, we show that for all the so-called path-symmetric states, the measurement of parity of photon number at the output of an optical interferometer achieves maximal phase sensitivity at the quantum Cramer-Rao bound. Such optimal phase sensitivity with parity is attained at a suitable bias phase, which can be determined a priori. Our scheme is applicable for local phase estimation.

id: 1207.0511
title: Fast Quantum Modular Exponentiation Architecture for Shor's Factorization Algorithm
authors: Archimedes Pavlidis, Dimitris Gizopoulos
comments: To be published in Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 14, No. 7&8 (2014) 0649-0682, 34 pages, 20 figures, 5 tables, revised October 2, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0511
abstract: We present a novel and efficient in terms of circuit depth design for Shor's quantum factorization algorithm. The circuit effectively utilizes a diverse set of adders based on the quantum Fourier transform (QFT) Draper's adders to build more complex arithmetic blocks: quantum multiplier/accumulators by constants and quantum dividers by constants. These arithmetic blocks are effectively architected into a generic modular quantum multiplier which is the fundamental block for modular exponentiation circuit, the most computational intensive part of Shor's algorithm. The proposed modular exponentiation circuit has a depth of about $2000n^{2}$ and requires $9n+2$ qubits, where $n$ is the number of bits of the classical number to be factored. The total quantum cost of the proposed design is $1600n^{3}$. The circuit depth can be further decreased by more than three times if the approximate QFT implementation of each adder unit is exploited.

id: 1207.0550
title: A multi-prover interactive proof for NEXP sound against entangled provers
authors: Tsuyoshi Ito, Thomas Vidick
comments: 47 pages. Minor improvements; reduced number of provers from 4 to 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0550
abstract: We prove a strong limitation on the ability of entangled provers to collude in a multiplayer game. Our main result is the first nontrivial lower bound on the class MIP* of languages having multi-prover interactive proofs with entangled provers; namely MIP* contains NEXP, the class of languages decidable in non-deterministic exponential time. While Babai, Fortnow, and Lund (Computational Complexity 1991) proved the celebrated equality MIP = NEXP in the absence of entanglement, ever since the introduction of the class MIP* it was open whether shared entanglement between the provers could weaken or strengthen the computational power of multi-prover interactive proofs. Our result shows that it does not weaken their computational power: MIP* contains MIP. At the heart of our result is a proof that Babai, Fortnow, and Lund's multilinearity test is sound even in the presence of entanglement between the provers, and our analysis of this test could be of independent interest. As a byproduct we show that the correlations produced by any entangled strategy which succeeds in the multilinearity test with high probability can always be closely approximated using shared randomness alone.

id: 1207.0585
title: Quantum computer networks with the orbital angular momentum of light
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, comments welcome
journal: Physical Review A 86, 032334 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0585
abstract: Inside computer networks, different information processing tasks are necessary to deliver the user data efficiently. This processing can also be done in the quantum domain. We present simple optical quantum networks where the orbital angular momentum of a single photon is used as an ancillary degree of freedom which controls decisions at the network level. Linear optical elements are enough to provide important network primitives like multiplexing and routing. First we show how to build a simple multiplexer and demultiplexer which combine photonic qubits and separate them again at the receiver. We also give two different self-routing networks where the OAM of an input photon is enough to make it find its desired destination.

id: 1207.0623
title: Stochastic Quantization and Casimir Forces: Pistons of Arbitrary Cross Section
authors: Pablo Rodriguez-Lopez, Ricardo Brito, Rodrigo Soto
comments: 10 pages and 4 figures. Accepted for publication in the Proceedings of the tenth conference on Quantum Field Theory under the influence of external conditions - QFEXT'11
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0623
abstract: Recently, a method based on stochastic quantization has been proposed to compute the Casimir force and its fluctuations in arbitrary geometries. It relies on the spectral decomposition of the Laplacian operator in the given geometry. Both quantum and thermal fluctuations are considered. Here we use such method to compute the Casimir force on the plates of a finite piston of arbitrary cross section. Asymptotic expressions valid at low and high temperatures and short and long distances are obtained. The case of a piston with triangular cross section is analysed in detail. The regularization of the divergent stress tensor is described.

id: 1207.0645
title: Photophysics of single silicon vacancy centers in diamond: implications for single photon emission
authors: Elke Neu, Mario Agio, Christoph Becher
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, version 2 accepted for publication in Optics Express
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 18, pp. 19956-19971 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0645
abstract: Single silicon vacancy (SiV) color centers in diamond have recently shown the ability for high brightness, narrow bandwidth, room temperature single photon emission. This work develops a model describing the three level population dynamics of single SiV centers in diamond nanocrystals on iridium surfaces including an intensity dependent de-shelving process. Furthermore, we investigate the brightness and photostability of single centers and find maximum single photon rates of 6.2 Mcps under continuous excitation. We investigate the collection efficiency of the fluorescence and estimate quantum efficiencies of the SiV centers.

id: 1207.0652
title: Infinite boundary conditions for matrix product state calculations
authors: Ho N. Phien, Guifre Vidal, Ian P. McCulloch
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 245107 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0652
abstract: We propose a formalism to study dynamical properties of a quantum many-body system in the thermodynamic limit by studying a finite system with infinite boundary conditions (IBC) where both finite size effects and boundary effects have been eliminated. For one-dimensional systems, infinite boundary conditions are obtained by attaching two boundary sites to a finite system, where each of these two sites effectively represents a semi-infinite extension of the system. One can then use standard finite-size matrix product state techniques to study a region of the system while avoiding many of the complications normally associated with finite-size calculations such as boundary Friedel oscillations. We illustrate the technique with an example of time evolution of a local perturbation applied to an infinite (translationally invariant) ground state, and use this to calculate the spectral function of the S=1 Heisenberg spin chain. This approach is more efficient and more accurate than conventional simulations based on finite-size matrix product state and density-matrix renormalization-group approaches.

id: 1207.0655
title: Broadening the scope of weak quantum measurements I: A single particle accurately measured yet left superposed
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Eliahu Cohen, Avshalom C. Elitzur
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures. Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0655
abstract: Weak measurement is unique in enabling measurements of non-commuting operators as well as otherwise-undetectable peculiar phenomena predicted by the Two-State-Vector-Formalism (TSVF). This article, the first in two parts, explores novel applications of weak measurement. We first revisit the basic principles of quantum measurement with the aid of the Michelson interferometer. Weak measurement is then introduced in a simple visualized manner by a specific choice of the reflecting mirror's position and momentum uncertainties. Having introduced the method, we proceed to its refinement for a single particle. We consider a photon going back and forth inside the interferometer, oscillating between a superposed and a localized state, while subjected to alternating strong and weak measurements. This cyclic process enables directly measuring both the photon's position ("which-path") and momentum (interference), without disturbing either. An alternative explanation of this result, not invoking weak values, is thoroughly considered and shown to be at odds with the experimental data. Finally a practical application of this experiment is demonstrated, where a single photon measures the various transmission coefficients of a multiport beam-splitter yet remains superposed. This method is then generalized to measurement of the wave-function itself, performed again on a single particle.

id: 1207.0667
title: Broadening the scope of weak quantum measurements II: Past and future measurement effects within a double Mach-Zehnder-interferometer setting
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Eliahu Cohen, Avshalom C. Elitzur
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0667
abstract: Following earlier applications of weak measurement to new cases (Part I), we proceed to explore its temporal peculiarities. We analyze an idealized experiment in which weak which-path measurements do not prevent consecutive weak interference effects, and then again the which-path information is recovered by strong measurements. We also show how the same effect can be obtained even by all these measurements being carried out on a single particle. The simplified setting enables critically assessing competing interpretations of the results. The most natural one is that of the Two-State-Vector Formalism, according to which the quantum "two-state" between an earlier and a later measurement is equally determined by both of them.

id: 1207.0669
title: Approximate solution of the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau equation for a vector Yukawa potential with arbitrary total angular momenta
authors: Majid Hamzavi, Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 17 pages; Communications in Theoretical Physics (2012). arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1205.0938, and with arXiv:quant-ph/0410159 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0669
abstract: The usual approximation scheme is used to study the solution of the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau (DKP) equation for a vector Yukawa potential in the framework of the parametric Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method. The approximate energy eigenvalue equation and the corresponding wave function spinor components are calculated for arbitrary total angular momentum in closed form. Further, the approximate energy equation and wave function spinor components are also given for case. A set of parameter values is used to obtain the numerical values for the energy states with various values of quantum levels

id: 1207.0675
title: Approximate relativistic bound state solutions of the Tietz-Hua rotating oscillator for any -state
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Majid Hamzavi
comments: 19 pages; 7 figures; Few-Body Systems (2012) (at press)
journal: Few-Body Systems 53 (3-4) (2012) 473-486
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0675
abstract: Approximate analytic solutions of the Dirac equation with Tietz-Hua (TH) potential are obtained for arbitrary spin-orbit quantum number using the Pekeris approximation scheme to deal with the spin-orbit coupling terms In the presence of exact spin and pseudo-spin (pspin) symmetric limitation, the bound state energy eigenvalues and associated two-component wave functions of the Dirac particle moving in the field of attractive and repulsive TH potential are obtained using the parametric generalization of the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method. The cases of the Morse potential, the generalized Morse potential and non-relativistic limits are studied.

id: 1207.0678
title: Dynamical windows for real-time evolution with matrix product states
authors: Ho N. Phien, Guifr¨¦ Vidal, Ian P. McCulloch
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 88, 035103 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0678
abstract: We propose the use of a dynamical window to investigate the real-time evolution of quantum many-body systems in a one-dimensional lattice. In a recent paper [H. Phien et al, arxiv:????.????], we introduced infinite boundary conditions (IBC) in order to investigate real-time evolution of an infinite system under a local perturbation. This was accomplished by restricting the update of the tensors in the matrix product state to a finite window, with left and right boundaries held at fixed positions. Here we consider instead the use of a dynamical window, namely a window where the positions of left and right boundaries are allowed to change in time. In this way, all simulation efforts can be devoted to the space-time region of interest, which leads to a remarkable reduction in computational costs. For illustrative purposes, we consider two applications in the context of the spin-1 antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model in an infinite spin chain: one is an expanding window, with boundaries that are adjusted to capture the expansion in time of a local perturbation of the system; the other is a moving window of fixed size, where the position of the window follows the front of a propagating wave.

id: 1207.0679
title: Hardware-efficient autonomous quantum error correction
authors: Zaki Leghtas, Gerhard Kirchmair, Brian Vlastakis, Robert Schoelkopf, Michel Devoret, Mazyar Mirrahimi
comments: 12 pages,6 figures
journal: PRL 111, 120501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0679
abstract: We propose a new method to autonomously correct for errors of a logical qubit induced by energy relaxation. This scheme encodes the logical qubit as a multi-component superposition of coherent states in a harmonic oscillator, more specifically a cavity mode. The sequences of encoding, decoding and correction operations employ the non-linearity provided by a single physical qubit coupled to the cavity. We layout in detail how to implement these operations in a practical system. This proposal directly addresses the task of building a hardware-efficient and technically realizable quantum memory.

id: 1207.0681
title: Spinless particles with unequal Scalar-Vector Yukawa interactions
authors: Majid Hamzavi, Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 13 pages; 1 figures; Chinese Physics B (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0681
abstract: We present analytical solutions of the spin-zero Klein-Gordon (KG) bosons in the field of unequal mixture of scalar and vector Yukawa potential within the framework of the approximation to the centrifugal potential term for any arbitrary -state. The explicit forms of the energy bound states including energy spectra and unnormalized wave functions are obtained using a simple shortcut of the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method. Our numerical tests using energy calculations demonstrate the existence of inter dimensional degeneracy amongst energy states of the present quantum system consisting of the KG-Yukawa problem. The dependence of the energy on the dimension is numerically discussed for

id: 1207.0687
title: Equivalence of the empirical shifted Deng-Fan oscillator potential for diatomic molecules
authors: Majid Hamzavi, Sameer M. Ikhdair, Karl-Erik Thylwe
comments: 14 pages, 2 figure; to appear in Journal of Mathematical Chemistry (2012)
journal: Journal of Mathematical Chemistry 51 (1) (2013) 227-238
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0687
abstract: We obtain the bound-state solutions of the radial Schr\"odinger equation (SE) with the shifted Deng-Fan (sDF) oscillator potential in the frame of the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method and employing Pekeris-type approximation to deal with the centrifugal term. The analytical expressions for the energy eigenvalues and the corresponding wave functions are obtained in closed form for arbitrary -state. The ro-vibrational energy levels for a few diatomic molecules are also calculated. They are found to be in good agreement with those ones previously obtained by the Morse potential.

id: 1207.0712
title: A higher quantum bound for the V¨¦rtesi-Bene-Bell-inequality and the role of POVMs regarding its threshold detection efficiency
authors: J. F. Barra, E. S. G¨®mez, G. Ca?as, W. A. T. Nogueira, L. Neves, G. Lima
comments: 11 Pages, 16 Figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 042114 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0712
abstract: Recently, V\'{e}rtesi and Bene [Phys. Rev. A. {\bf 82}, 062115 (2010)] derived a two-qubit Bell inequality, $I_{CH3}$, which they show to be maximally violated only when more general positive operator valued measures (POVMs) are used instead of the usual von Neumann measurements. Here we consider a general parametrization for the three-element-POVM involved in the Bell test and obtain a higher quantum bound for the $I_{CH3}$-inequality. With a higher quantum bound for $I_{CH3}$, we investigate if there is an experimental setup that can be used for observing that POVMs give higher violations in Bell tests based on this inequality. We analyze the maximum errors supported by the inequality to identify a source of entangled photons that can be used for the test. Then, we study if POVMs are also relevant in the more realistic case that partially entangled states are used in the experiment. Finally, we investigate which are the required efficiencies of the $I_{CH3}$-inequality, and the type of measurements involved, for closing the detection loophole. We obtain that POVMs allow for the lowest threshold detection efficiency, and that it is comparable to the minimal (in the case of two-qubits) required detection efficiency of the Clauser-Horne-Bell-inequality.

id: 1207.0732
title: Quantum LDPC Codes Constructed from Point-Line Subsets of the Finite Projective Plane
authors: Jacob Farinholt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0732
abstract: Due to their fast decoding algorithms, quantum generalizations of low-density parity check, or LDPC, codes have been investigated as a solution to the problem of decoherence in fragile quantum states. However, the additional twisted inner product requirements of quantum stabilizer codes force four-cycles and eliminate the possibility of randomly generated quantum LDPC codes. Moreover, the classes of quantum LDPC codes discovered thus far generally have unknown or small minimum distance, or a fixed rate. This paper presents several new classes of quantum LDPC codes constructed from finite projective planes. These codes have rates that increase with the block length $n$ and minimum weights proportional to $n^{1/2}$.

id: 1207.0793
title: Position Measurements in the de Broglie - Bohm Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Gillie Naaman-Marom, Noam Erez, Lev Vaidman
comments: 27 pages, to be published in Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0793
abstract: The de Broglie - Bohm Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics assigns positions and trajectories to particles. We analyze the validity of a formula for the velocities of Bohmian particles which makes the analysis of these trajectories particularly simple. We apply it to four different types of particle detectors and show that three types of the detectors lead to "surrealistic trajectories", i.e., leave a trace where the Bohmian particle was not present.

id: 1207.0804
title: Quantum measurements are physical processes. Comment on "Consciousness and the double-slit interference pattern: Six experiments," By Dean Radin et al. [Physics Essays 25, 2 (2012)]
authors: Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author as it will be soon published in Physics Essays, and it is part of the agreement that once the copyright is transferred to the journal, the paper has to be removed from any electronic public depository
journal: PHYSICS ESSAYS 26, 1 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0804
abstract: The validity of the assertion that some recent double-slit interference experiments, conducted by Radin et al., would have tested the possible role of the experimenter's mind in the collapse of the quantum wave function, is questioned. It is emphasized that quantum mechanics doesn't need any psychophysical ingredient to explain the measurement processes, and therefore parapsychologists shouldn't resort to the latter to support the possibility of psychokinesis, but search for more convincing explanations.

id: 1207.0846
title: Entangled states of trapped ions allow measuring the magnetic field gradient of a single atomic spin
authors: F. Schmidt-Kaler, R. Gerritsma
comments: 4 pages, 2 fig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0846
abstract: Using trapped ions in an entangled state we propose detecting a magnetic dipole of a single atom at distance of a few $\mu$m. This requires a measurement of the magnetic field gradient at a level of about 10$^{-13}$ Tesla/$\mu$m. We discuss applications e.g. in determining a wide variation of ionic magnetic moments, for investigating the magnetic substructure of ions with a level structure not accessible for optical cooling and detection,and for studying exotic or rare ions, and molecular ions. The scheme may also be used for measureing spin imbalances of neutral atoms or atomic ensembles trapped by optical dipole forces. As the proposed method relies on techniques well established in ion trap quantum information processing it is within reach of current technology.

id: 1207.0885
title: On Wave Particle Duality
authors: Jerome Blackman
comments: 6 pages. Considerable simplification of earlier article
journal: Physics Essays, Sept. 2013, Vol.26, No 3, pp347 - 349
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0885
abstract: In a recent paper a mathematical model for quantum measurement was presented. The phenomenon of wave particle duality, which is introduced in every beginning course of quantum theory, can be explained using this model. Although it is a special case of the general theory it has historic interest and involves the use of a continuous spectrum which was treated only casually in the original article. The treatment here is self contained except for the proof of a mathematical theorem appearing in the first paper.

id: 1207.0890
title: Novel Collective Effects in Integrated Photonics
authors: M. Delanty, S. Rebic, J. Twamley
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 66, 93 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0890
abstract: Superradiance, the enhanced collective emission of energy from a coherent ensemble of quantum systems, has been typically studied in atomic ensembles. In this work we study theoretically the enhanced emission of energy from coherent ensembles of harmonic oscillators. We show that it should be possible to observe harmonic oscillator superradiance for the first time in waveguide arrays in integrated photonics. Furthermore, we describe how pairwise correlations within the ensemble can be measured with this architecture. These pairwise correlations are an integral part of the phenomenon of superradiance and have never been observed in experiments to date.

id: 1207.0924
title: Casimir Effect in systems in and out of Equilibrium
authors: Pablo Rodriguez-Lopez
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, 10 chapters, 231 pages and 33 figures. University Complutense of Madrid, Spain, 28th October 2011
journal: Published by Ed: Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Servicio de Publicaciones. Deposited on: 23 Jan. 2012 OAI Identifier: oai:www.ucm.es:13976 ISBN: 978-84-695-1202-9
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0924
abstract: This thesis consists on two separate parts. In the first part, we discuss about the nature of the Casimir effect as the response of a fluctuant medium to the breakdown of the translation symmetry because the presence of intrusions in that medium. To do so, we present a dynamical approximation of Casimir effect, which generalizes Casimir effect studies to out of equilibrium steady states. The equilibrium known case is recovered as a particular case, including the case of electromagnetic (EM) Casimir effect generated because of quantum fluctuations. This formalism also allows us to define (and calculate) the variance of Casimir forces. In the second part of this thesis, by the use of a Multiscattering formalism, we study the nature of the multibody Casimir effect. We demonstrate that the Casimir force and energy between two spheres in presence of a plate (perfect metal objects all of them) is non-monotonous with the distance between spheres and between sphere and plate. We derive the Pairwise Summation Approximation (PSA) of the EM field from this multiscattering formalism for generalized dielectrics, including magnetic responses and Topological Insulators as an example of magnetoelectric couplings. We also study the nonmonotonous behavior of the entropy with the temperature for a system of two perfect metal spheres and describes the Casimir energy between non-parallel cylinders, a geometry not studied until now to our knownledge.

id: 1207.0992
title: Exact Phase Space Localized Projectors from Energy Eigenstates
authors: J.J.Halliwell
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0992
abstract: In investigations of the emergence of classicality from quantum theory, a useful step is the construction of quantum operators corresponding to the classical notion that the system resides in a region of phase space. The simplest such constructions, using coherent states, yield operators which are approximate projection operators -- their eigenvalues are approximately equal to 1 or 0. Such projections may be shown to have close to classical behaviour under time evolution and these results have been used to prove some useful results about emergent classicality in the decoherent histories approach to quantum theory. Here, we show how to use the eigenstates of a suitably chosen Hamiltonian to construct exact projection operators which are localized on regions of phase. We elucidate the properties of such operators and explore their time evolution. For the special case of the harmonic oscillator, the time evolution is particularly simple, and we find sets of phase space localized histories which are exactly decoherent for any initial state and have probability 1 for classical evolution. These results show how approximate decoherence of histories and classical predictability for phase space histories may be made exact in certain cases.

id: 1207.1043
title: Local symmetries in one-dimensional quantum scattering
authors: P. A. Kalozoumis, C. Morfonios, F. K. Diakonos, P. Schmelcher
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032113 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1043
abstract: We introduce the concept of parity symmetry in restricted spatial domains -- local parity -- and explore its impact on the stationary transport properties of generic, one-dimensional aperiodic potentials of compact support. It is shown that, in each domain of local parity symmetry of the potential, there exists an invariant quantity in the form of a non-local current, in addition to the globally invariant probability current. For symmetrically incoming states, both invariant currents vanish if weak commutation of the total local parity operator with the Hamiltonian is established, leading to local parity eigenstates. For asymmetrically incoming states which resonate within locally symmetric potential units, the complete local parity symmetry of the probability density is shown to be necessary and sufficient for the occurrence of perfect transmission. We connect the presence of local parity symmetries on different spatial scales to the occurrence of multiple perfectly transmitting resonances and propose a construction scheme for the design of resonant transparent aperiodic potentials. Our findings are illustrated through application to the analytically tractable case of piecewise constant potentials.

id: 1207.1058
title: Counting Photons in the Lambda-Experiment
authors: Anita Dabrowska
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Open Sys. & Information Dyn. 9: 381-392, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1058
abstract: Dehmelt's Lambda-experiment for a three-level atom with simultaneously driven strong and weak transition is studied within quantum stochastic calculus approach. The statistics of the emitted photons is found by the method of generating functional of the corresponding two dimensional output counting process. In particular, the average waiting times for a count are calculated.

id: 1207.1084
title: Hybrid Zero-capacity Channels
authors: Sergii Strelchuk, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022328 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1084
abstract: There are only two known kinds of zero-capacity channels. The first kind produces entangled states that have positive partial transpose, and the second one - states that are cloneable. We consider the family of 'hybrid' quantum channels, which lies in the intersection of the above classes of channels and investigate its properties. It gives rise to the first explicit examples of the channels, which create bound entangled states that have the property of being cloneable to the arbitrary finite number of parties. Hybrid channels provide the first example of highly cloneable binding entanglement channels, for which known superactivation protocols must fail - superactivation is the effect where two channels each with zero quantum capacity having positive capacity when used together. We give two methods to construct a hybrid channel from any binding entanglement channel. We also find the low-dimensional counterparts of hybrid states - bipartite qubit states which are extendible and possess two-way key.

id: 1207.1111
title: A Generalization of Kochen-Specker Sets Relates Quantum Coloring to Entanglement-Assisted Channel Capacity
authors: Laura Mancinska, Giannicola Scarpa, Simone Severini
comments: 16 pages
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory (Volume:59 , Issue:6), June 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1111
abstract: We introduce two generalizations of Kochen-Specker (KS) sets: projective KS sets and generalized KS sets. We then use projective KS sets to characterize all graphs for which the chromatic number is strictly larger than the quantum chromatic number. Here, the quantum chromatic number is defined via a nonlocal game based on graph coloring. We further show that from any graph with separation between these two quantities, one can construct a classical channel for which entanglement assistance increases the one-shot zero-error capacity. As an example, we exhibit a new family of classical channels with an exponential increase.

id: 1207.1138
title: Parsing a sequence of qubits
authors: Yuichiro Fujiwara
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. Final accepted version for publication in the IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 59 (2013) 6796-6806
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1138
abstract: We develop a theoretical framework for frame synchronization, also known as block synchronization, in the quantum domain which makes it possible to attach classical and quantum metadata to quantum information over a noisy channel even when the information source and sink are frame-wise asynchronous. This eliminates the need of frame synchronization at the hardware level and allows for parsing qubit sequences during quantum information processing. Our framework exploits binary constant-weight codes that are self-synchronizing. Possible applications may include asynchronous quantum communication such as a self-synchronizing quantum network where one can hop into the channel at any time, catch the next coming quantum information with a label indicating the sender, and reply by routing her quantum information with control qubits for quantum switches all without assuming prior frame synchronization between users.

id: 1207.1139
title: Bandwidth-Limited Control and Ringdown Suppression in High-Q Resonators
authors: Troy W. Borneman, David G. Cory
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures; Replaced with version accepted for publication and added journal reference
journal: J. Magn. Reson. 225, 120-129 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1139
abstract: We describe how the transient behavior of a tuned and matched resonator circuit and a ringdown suppression pulse may be integrated into an optimal control theory (OCT) pulse-design algorithm to derive control sequences with limited ringdown that perform a desired quantum operation in the presence of resonator distortions of the ideal waveform. Inclusion of ringdown suppression in numerical pulse optimizations significantly reduces spectrometer deadtime when using high quality factor (high-Q) resonators, leading to increased signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and sensitivity of inductive measurements. To demonstrate the method, we experimentally measure the free-induction decay of an inhomogeneously broadened solid-state free radical spin system at high Q. The measurement is enabled by using a numerically optimized bandwidth-limited OCT pulse, including ringdown suppression, robust to variations in static and microwave field strengths. We also discuss the applications of pulse design in high-Q resonators to universal control of anisotropic-hyperfine coupled electron-nuclear spin systems via electron-only modulation even when the bandwidth of the resonator is significantly smaller than the hyperfine coupling strength. These results demonstrate how limitations imposed by linear response theory may be vastly exceeded when using a sufficiently accurate system model to optimize pulses of high complexity.

id: 1207.1176
title: Unbounded C-symmetries and their nonuniqueness
authors: Carl M. Bender, Sergii Kuzhel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1176
abstract: It is shown that if the C operator for a PT-symmetric Hamiltonian with simple eigenvalues is not unique, then it is unbounded. Apart from the special cases of finite-matrix Hamiltonians and Hamiltonians generated by differential expressions with PT-symmetric point interactions, the usual situation is that the C operator is unbounded. The fact that the C operator is unbounded is significant because, while there is a formal equivalence between a PT-symmetric Hamiltonian and a conventionally Hermitian Hamiltonian in the sense that the two Hamiltonians are isospectral, the Hilbert spaces are inequivalent. This is so because the mapping from one Hilbert space to the other is unbounded. This shows that PT-symmetric quantum theories are mathematically distinct from conventional Hermitian quantum theories.

id: 1207.1196
title: Filtering equation for a measurement of a coherent channel
authors: A. Dabrowska, P. Staszewski
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure. This paper was published in JOSA B. The final version is available on OSA website
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, Vol. 28, 1238-1244 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1196
abstract: A stochastic model for a continuous photon counting and heterodyne measurement of a coherent source is proposed. A nonlinear filtering equation for the posterior state of a single-mode field in a cavity is derived by using the methods of quantum stochastic calculus. The posterior dynamics is found for the observation of a Bose field being initially in a coherent state. The filtering equations for counting and diffusion processes are given.

id: 1207.1197
title: Comparisons between quantum state distinguishability measures
authors: Koenraad M. R. Audenaert
comments: 8 pages. Title changed, minor textual changes. Accepted for publication in Quant. Inf. Comp
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 14(1&2) 31-38 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1197
abstract: We provide a compendium of inequalities between several quantum state distinguishability measures. For each measure these inequalities consist of the sharpest possible upper and lower bounds in terms of another measure. Some of these inequalities are already known, but new or more general proofs are given, whereas other inequalities are new. We also supply cases of equality to show that all inequalities are indeed the sharpest possible.

id: 1207.1203
title: Giant Cross Kerr Effect for Propagating Microwaves Induced by an Artificial Atom
authors: Io-Chun Hoi, C. M. Wilson, G?ran Johansson, Tauno Palomaki, Thomas M. Stace, Bixuan Fan, Per Delsing
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 053601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1203
abstract: We have investigated the cross Kerr phase shift of propagating microwave fields strongly coupled to an artificial atom. The artificial atom is a superconducting transmon qubit in an open transmission line. We demonstrate average phase shifts of 11 degrees per photon between two coherent microwave fields both at the single-photon level. At high control power, we observe phase shifts up to 30 degrees. Our results provide an important step towards quantum gates with propagating photons in the microwave regime.

id: 1207.1212
title: Practically state-independent test of contextuality with 9 observables
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042125 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1212
abstract: We propose a test of quantum contextuality for a single three-level system that uses nine projective measurements. It has a form of an inequality that has to be satisfied by any non-contextual theory and which is violated by any quantum state, except for the maximally mixed one. Due to the fact that there is only a single state that does not exhibit contextuality, it is natural to ask what the difference between state-independent tests and the one proposed here is.

id: 1207.1227
title: Joint numerical ranges, quantum maps, and joint numerical shadows
authors: Eugene Gutkin, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 12 latex pages, 3 figures in eps, revised version, several improvements
journal: Lin. Alg. Appl. 438, 2394--2404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1227
abstract: We associate with k hermitian N\times N matrices a probability measure on R^k. It is supported on the joint numerical range of the k-tuple of matrices. We call this measure the joint numerical shadow of these matrices. Let k=2. A pair of hermitian N\times N matrices defines a complex N\times N matrix. The joint numerical range and the joint numerical shadow of the pair of hermitian matrices coincide with the numerical range and the numerical shadow, respectively, of this complex matrix. We study relationships between the dynamics of quantum maps on the set of quantum states, on one hand, and the numerical ranges, on the other hand. In particular, we show that under the identity resolution assumption on Kraus operators defining the quantum map, the dynamics shrinks numerical ranges.

id: 1207.1243
title: Shielding quantum discord through continuous dynamical decoupling
authors: Felipe F. Fanchini, Emanuel F. de Lima, Leonardo K. Castelano
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052310 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1243
abstract: This work investigates the use of dynamical decoupling to shield quantum discord from errors introduced by the environment. Specifically, a two-qubits system interacting with independent baths of bosons is considered. The initial conditions of the system were chosen as pure and mixed states, while the dynamical decoupling has been achieved by means of continuous fields. The effects of the temperature on the shielding of quantum discord is also studied. It is shown that although the quantum discord for particular initial states may be perfectly preserved over some finite time window in the absence of any protective field, the effectiveness of the dynamical decoupling with continuous fields depends essentially on the timescale required to preserve quantum discord. It is also shown that for these particular initial states the time for which the shielding of the quantum discord becomes effective decreases as the temperature increases.

id: 1207.1248
title: On the Transition from the Quantum to the Classical Regime for Massive Scalar Particles: A Spatiotemporal Approach
authors: Luca Lusanna, Massimo Pauri
comments: 46 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1248
abstract: (abridged)If the space-time is presupposed, the coordinate representation of the solutions $\psi(\vec x, t)$ of the Schroedinger equation of a quantum system containing one massive scalar particle has a {\it preferred status}. It is then possible to perform a multipolar expansion of the density matrix $\rho(\vec x, t) = |\psi(\vec x, t)|^2$ (and more generally of the Wigner function) around a space-time trajectory ${\vec x}_c(t)$ to be properly selected. A special set of solutions $\psi_{EMWF}(\vec x, t)$, named {\it Ehrenfest monopole wave functions}(EMWF), is characterized by the conditions that: (i) the quantum expectation value of the position operator coincides at any time with the searched classical trajectory, $< \psi_{EMWF} | {\hat {\vec x}} | \psi_{EMWF}> = {\vec x}_c(t)$: this is possible only when the dipole vanishes; (ii) Ehrenfest's theorem holds for the expectation values of the position and momentum operator: its application to EMWF leads then to a {\it closed Newton equation of motion for the classical trajectory, where the effective force is the Newton force plus non-Newtonian terms (of order $\hbar^2$ or higher) depending on the higher multipoles of the probability distribution $\rho$.} These results can be extended to N particle systems and to relativistic quantum mechanics. There is substantial agreement with Bohr's viewpoint: the macroscopic description of the preparation, certain intermediate steps and the detection of the final outcome of experiments involving massive particles are dominated by these 'classical {\it effective} trajectories'. In the framework of decoherence, one gets a transition from an {\it improper quantum} mixture to a {\it classical statistical} one, when both the particle and the pointer wave functions appearing in the reduced density matrix are EMWF.

id: 1207.1275
title: Quantum discord in quantum random access codes and its connection with dimension witness
authors: Yao Yao, Hong-Wei Li, Xu-Bo Zou, Jing-Zheng Huang, Chun-Mei Zhang, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Wei Chen, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: Published version. 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062310 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1275
abstract: We exploit quantum discord (and geometric discord) to detect quantum correlations present in a well-known communication model called quantum random access codes (QRACs), which has a variety of applications in areas ranging form quantum communication complexity, network coding, information causality, to security proof of QKD protocol. In spite of the fact that there is no entanglement between the two parts involved in this model, analytical derivation shows that the quantum discord is nonzero and highlights that quantum discord might be regarded as a figure of merit to characterize the quantum feature of QRACs, since this model has no classical counterparts. To gain further insight, we also investigate the dynamical behavior of quantum discord under state rotations. As a comparison, the connection between quantum discord and dimension witness is graphically discussed. Interestingly, our results illustrate that these two quantities are monotonically related to each other, which implies that the dimension witness and nonclassical correlations may be intrinsically linked.

id: 1207.1297
title: Bures and Hilbert-Schmidt 2 x 2 Determinantal Moments
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, expanded introduction, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A 45, 455303 [2012]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1297
abstract: We seek to gain insight into the nature of the determinantal moments of generic (9-dimensional) two-rebit and (15-dimensional) two-qubit systems (rho). Such information-as it has proved to be in the Hilbert-Schmidt counterpart--should be useful, employing probability-distribution reconstruction (inverse) procedures, in obtaining improved, or possibly even exact Bures 2 x 2 separability probabilities for such systems. The (regularizing) strategy we first adopt is to plot the ratio of numerically-generated (Ginibre ensemble) estimates of the Bures moments to the corresponding (apparently) exactly-known Hilbert-Schmidt moments (J. Phys. A, 45, 095305 [2012]). Then, through a combination of symbolic and numerical computations, we obtain strong evidence as to the exact values (and underlying patterns) of certain Bures moments. In particular, the first moment (average) of |rho^{PT}| (where |rho^{PT}| in [-1/16, 1/256]), PT denoting partial transpose, for the two-qubit systems is, remarkably, -1 / 256. The analogous value for the two-rebit systems is -2663/(2^(13) x 3 x 5 x 7) approx -0.00309594. While, an important function in the Hilbert-Schmidt case is the ratio of 3n-degree polynomials, it appears to be the ratio of 5n-degree polynomials in the Bures case.

id: 1207.1298
title: Witnessed entanglement and the geometric measure of quantum discord
authors: Tiago Debarba, Thiago O. Maciel, Reinaldo O. Vianna
comments: 8 pages + 3 figures. Revised version with erratum for PRA 86, 024302 (2012). Simplified proof that discord is bounded by entanglement in any norm
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 024302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1298
abstract: We establish relations between geometric quantum discord and entanglement quantifiers obtained by means of optimal witness operators. In particular, we prove a relation between negativity and geometric discord in the Hilbert-Schmidt norm, which is slightly different from a previous conjectured one [Phys. Rev. A 84, 052110 (2011)].We also show that, redefining the geometric discord with the trace norm, better bounds can be obtained. We illustrate our results numerically.

id: 1207.1443
title: Subsystem surface codes with three-qubit check operators
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Guillaume Duclos-Cianci, David Poulin, Martin Suchara
comments: 13 pages, 14 figures. Updated Fig. 6 and Fig. 7. The original figures were not consistent with the text
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. Vol. 13, No. 11&12, pp0963-0985 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1443
abstract: We propose a simplified version of the Kitaev's surface code in which error correction requires only three-qubit parity measurements for Pauli operators XXX and ZZZ. The new code belongs to the class of subsystem stabilizer codes. It inherits many favorable properties of the standard surface code such as encoding of multiple logical qubits on a planar lattice with punctured holes, efficient decoding by either minimum-weight matching or renormalization group methods, and high error threshold. The new subsystem surface code (SSC) gives rise to an exactly solvable Hamiltonian with 3-qubit interactions, topologically ordered ground state, and a constant energy gap. We construct a local unitary transformation mapping the SSC Hamiltonian to the one of the ordinary surface code thus showing that the two Hamiltonians belong to the same topological class. We describe error correction protocols for the SSC and determine its error thresholds under several natural error models. In particular, we show that the SSC has error threshold approximately 0.6% for the standard circuit-based error model studied in the literature. We also consider a model in which three-qubit parity operators can be measured directly. We show that the SSC has error threshold approximately 0.97% in this setting.

id: 1207.1454
title: From scattering theory to complex wave dynamics in non-hermitian PT-symmetric resonators
authors: Henning Schomerus
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, minireview for a theme issue, Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 371, 20120194 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1454
abstract: I review how methods from mesoscopic physics can be applied to describe the multiple wave scattering and complex wave dynamics in non-hermitian PT-symmetric resonators, where an absorbing region is coupled symmetrically to an amplifying region. Scattering theory serves as a convenient tool to classify the symmetries beyond the single-channel case and leads to effective descriptions which can be formulated in the energy domain (via Hamiltonians) and in the time domain (via time evolution operators). These models can then be used to identify the mesoscopic time and energy scales which govern the spectral transition from real to complex eigenvalues. The possible presence of magneto-optical effects (a finite vector potential) in multichannel systems leads to a variant (termed PTT' symmetry) which imposes the same spectral constraints as PT symmetry. I also provide multichannel versions of generalized flux-conservation laws.

id: 1207.1473
title: Postprocessing for quantum random number generators: entropy evaluation and randomness extraction
authors: Xiongfeng Ma, Feihu Xu, He Xu, Xiaoqing Tan, Bing Qi, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062327 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1473
abstract: Quantum random-number generators (QRNGs) can offer a means to generate information-theoretically provable random numbers, in principle. In practice, unfortunately, the quantum randomness is inevitably mixed with classical randomness due to classical noises. To distill this quantum randomness, one needs to quantify the randomness of the source and apply a randomness extractor. Here, we propose a generic framework for evaluating quantum randomness of real-life QRNGs by min-entropy, and apply it to two different existing quantum random-number systems in the literature. Moreover, we provide a guideline of QRNG data postprocessing for which we implement two information-theoretically provable randomness extractors: Toeplitz-hashing extractor and Trevisan's extractor.

id: 1207.1479
title: Norms and Cones in the Theory of Quantum Entanglement
authors: Nathaniel Johnston
comments: PhD thesis. 301 pages, 11 figures, 5 tables, 260 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1479
abstract: There are various notions of positivity for matrices and linear matrix-valued maps that play important roles in quantum information theory. The cones of positive semidefinite matrices and completely positive linear maps, which represent quantum states and quantum channels respectively, are the most ubiquitous positive cones. There are also many natural cones that can been regarded as "more" or "less" positive than these standard examples. In particular, entanglement theory deals with the cones of separable operators and entanglement witnesses, which satisfy very strong and weak positivity properties respectively. Rather complementary to the various cones that arise in entanglement theory are norms. The trace and operator norms for operators and the diamond and completely bounded norms for superoperators are the typical norms that are seen throughout quantum information theory. In this work our main goal is to develop a family of norms that play a role analogous to the cone of entanglement witnesses. We investigate the basic mathematical properties of these norms, including their relationships with other well-known norms, their isometry groups, and their dual norms. We also make the place of these norms in entanglement theory rigorous by showing that entanglement witnesses arise from minimal operator systems, and analogously our norms arise from minimal operator spaces. Finally, we connect the various cones and norms considered here to several seemingly unrelated problems from other areas. We characterize the problem of whether or not non-positive partial transpose bound entangled states exist in terms of one of our norms, and provide evidence in favour of their existence. We also characterize the minimum gate fidelity of a quantum channel, the maximum output purity and its completely bounded counterpart, and the geometric measure of entanglement in terms of these norms.

id: 1207.1538
title: Dynamically stabilized decoherence-free states in non-Markovian open fermionic systems
authors: Heng-Na Xiong, Wei-Min Zhang, Matisse Wei-Yuan Tu, Daniel Braun
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures. Any comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1538
abstract: Decoherence-free subspaces (DFSs) provide a strategy for protecting the dynamics of an open system from decoherence induced by the system-environment interaction. So far, DFSs have been primarily studied in the framework of Markovian master equations. In this work, we study decoherence-free (DF) states in the general setting of a non-Markovian fermionic environment. We identify the DF states by diagonalizing the non-unitary evolution operator for a two-level fermionic system attached to an electron reservoir. By solving the exact master equation, we show that DF states can be stabilized dynamically.

id: 1207.1567
title: Dynamics of levitated nanospheres: towards the strong coupling regime
authors: T. S. Monteiro, J. Millen, G. A. T. Pender, Florian Marquardt, D. Chang, P. F. Barker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1567
abstract: The use of levitated nanospheres represents a new paradigm for the optomechanical cooling of a small mechanical oscillator, with the prospect of realising quantum oscillators with unprecedentedly high quality factors. We investigate the dynamics of this system, especially in the so-called self-trapping regimes, where one or more optical fields simultaneously trap and cool the mechanical oscillator. The determining characteristic of this regime is that both the mechanical frequency $\omega_M$ and single-photon optomechanical coupling strength parameters $g$ are a function of the optical field intensities, in contrast to usual set-ups where $\omega_M$ and $g$ are constant for the given system. We also measure the characteristic transverse and axial trapping frequencies of different sized silica nanospheres in a simple optical standing wave potential, for spheres of radii $r=20-500$\,nm, illustrating a protocol for loading single nanospheres into a standing wave optical trap that would be formed by an optical cavity. We use this data to confirm the dependence of the effective optomechanical coupling strength on sphere radius for levitated nanospheres in an optical cavity and discuss the prospects for reaching regimes of strong light-matter coupling. Theoretical semiclassical and quantum displacement noise spectra show that for larger nanospheres with $r \gtrsim 100$\,nm a range of interesting and novel dynamical regimes can be accessed. These include simultaneous hybridization of the two optical modes with the mechanical modes and parameter regimes where the system is bistable. We show that here, in contrast to typical single-optical mode optomechanical systems, bistabilities are independent of intracavity intensity and can occur for very weak laser driving amplitudes.

id: 1207.1585
title: High-fidelity conversion of photonic quantum information to telecommunication wavelength with superconducting single-photon detectors
authors: Rikizo Ikuta, Hiroshi Kato, Yoshiaki Kusaka, Shigehito Miki, Taro Yamashita, Hirotaka Terai, Mikio Fujiwara, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Masahide Sasaki, Zhen Wang, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 010301(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1585
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a high-fidelity visible-to-telecommunication wavelength conversion of a photon by using a solid-state-based difference frequency generation. In the experiment, one half of a pico-second visible entangled photon pair at 780 nm is converted to a 1522-nm photon, resulting in the entangled photon pair between 780 nm and 1522 nm. Using superconducting single-photon detectors with low dark count rates and small timing jitters, we selectively observed well-defined temporal modes containing the two photons. We achieved a fidelity of $0.93 \pm 0.04$ after the wavelength conversion, indicating that our solid-state-based scheme can be used for faithful frequency down-conversion of visible photons emitted from quantum memories composed of various media.

id: 1207.1595
title: Precision atomic gravimeter based on Bragg diffraction
authors: P. A. Altin, M. T. Johnsson, V. Negnevitsky, G. R. Dennis, R. P. Anderson, J. E. Debs, S. S. Szigeti, K. S. Hardman, S. Bennetts, G. D. McDonald, L. D. Turner, J. D. Close, N. P. Robins
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 023009 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1595
abstract: We present a precision gravimeter based on coherent Bragg diffraction of freely falling cold atoms. Traditionally, atomic gravimeters have used stimulated Raman transitions to separate clouds in momentum space by driving transitions between two internal atomic states. Bragg interferometers utilize only a single internal state, and can therefore be less susceptible to environmental perturbations. Here we show that atoms extracted from a magneto-optical trap using an accelerating optical lattice are a suitable source for a Bragg atom interferometer, allowing efficient beamsplitting and subsequent separation of momentum states for detection. Despite the inherently multi-state nature of atom diffraction, we are able to build a Mach-Zehnder interferometer using Bragg scattering which achieves a sensitivity to the gravitational acceleration of $\Delta g/g = 2.7\times10^{-9}$ with an integration time of 1000s. The device can also be converted to a gravity gradiometer by a simple modification of the light pulse sequence.

id: 1207.1596
title: Detection of $k$-nonseparable $n$-partite quantum states
authors: Ting Gao, Yan Hong
comments: It merged into arXiv:1204.2864
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1596
abstract: The detection of multipartite entanglement in arbitrary dimensional systems is investigated. We derive useful $k$-separability criteria of mixed $n$-partite ($n\geq 3$) quantum states to detect $k$-nonseparable $n$-partite quantum states. Our criteria can be expressed by the elements of the density matrix, which allows a simple and practical evaluation and computation. They are experimentally accessible without quantum state tomography.

id: 1207.1610
title: Quantum trajectories: memory and continuous observation
authors: A. Barchielli, C. Pellegrini, F. Petruccione
comments: 21 pages, RevTeX4-1; minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063814 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1610
abstract: Starting from a generalization of the quantum trajectory theory (based on the stochastic Schr\"odinger equation - SSE), non-Markovian models of quantum dynamics are derived. In order to describe non-Markovian effects, the approach used in this article is based on the introduction of random coefficients in the usual linear SSE. A major interest is that this allows to develop a consistent theory of quantum measurement in continuous time for these non-Markovian quantum trajectory models. In this context, the notions of instrument, a priori and a posteriori states are rigorously described. The key point is that by starting from a stochastic equation on the Hilbert space of the system, we are able to respect the complete positivity of the mean dynamics for the statistical operator and the requirements of the axioms of quantum measurement theory. The flexibility of the theory is next illustrated by a concrete physical model of a noisy oscillator where non Markovian effects come from random environment, coloured noises, randomness in the stimulating light, delay effects. The statistics of the emitted photons and the heterodyne and homodyne spectra are studied and we show how these quantities are sensible to the non-Markovian features of the system dynamics, so that, in principle, the observation and analysis of the fluorescence light could reveal the presence of non-Markovian effects and allow for a measure of the spectra of the noises affecting the system dynamics.

id: 1207.1652
title: Geometric discord and Measurement-induced nonlocality for well known bound entangled states
authors: Swapan Rana, Preeti Parashar
comments: V2: Title changed, one more state added; 11 pages (single column), 2 figures, accepted in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Info. Process. 12, 2523 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1652
abstract: We employ geometric discord and measurement induced nonlocality to quantify non classical correlations of some well-known bipartite bound entangled states, namely the two families of Horodecki's ($2\otimes 4$, $3\otimes 3$ and $4\otimes 4$ dimensional) bound entangled states and that of Bennett etal's in $3\otimes 3$ dimension. In most of the cases our results are analytic and both the measures attain relatively small value. The amount of quantumness in the $4\otimes 4$ bound entangled state of Benatti etal and the $2\otimes 8$ state having the same matrix representation (in computational basis) is same. Coincidently, the $2m\otimes 2m$ Werner and isotropic states also exhibit the same property, when seen as $2\otimes 2m^2$ dimensional states.

id: 1207.1653
title: Dissipative Dynamics and Phase Transitions in Fermionic Systems
authors: Birger Horstmann, J. Ignacio Cirac, G¨¦za Giedke
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures; v2: references added, typos corrected; v3: small corrections, improved figure, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012108 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1653
abstract: We study abrupt changes in the dynamics and/or steady state of fermionic dissipative systems produced by small changes of the system parameters. Specifically, we consider open fermionic systems whose dynamics is described by master equations that are quadratic (and, under certain conditions, quartic) in creation and annihilation operators. We analyze both phase transitions in steady state, as well as "dynamical transitions". The latter are characterized by abrupt changes in the rate at which the system asymptotically approaches the steady state. We illustrate our general findings with relevant examples of fermionic (and, equivalently, spin) systems, and show that they can be realized in ion chains.

id: 1207.1655
title: Robust Online Hamiltonian Learning
authors: Christopher E. Granade, Christopher Ferrie, Nathan Wiebe, D. G. Cory
comments: 24 pages, 12 figures; to appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: 2012 New J. Phys. 14 103013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Learning (cs.LG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1655
abstract: In this work we combine two distinct machine learning methodologies, sequential Monte Carlo and Bayesian experimental design, and apply them to the problem of inferring the dynamical parameters of a quantum system. We design the algorithm with practicality in mind by including parameters that control trade-offs between the requirements on computational and experimental resources. The algorithm can be implemented online (during experimental data collection), avoiding the need for storage and post-processing. Most importantly, our algorithm is capable of learning Hamiltonian parameters even when the parameters change from experiment-to-experiment, and also when additional noise processes are present and unknown. The algorithm also numerically estimates the Cramer-Rao lower bound, certifying its own performance.

id: 1207.1665
title: Universality proof and analysis of generalized nested Uhrig dynamical decoupling
authors: W.-J. Kuo, G. A. Paz-Silva, G. Quiroz, D. A. Lidar
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 122207 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1665
abstract: Nested Uhrig dynamical decoupling (NUDD) is a highly efficient quantum error suppression scheme that builds on optimized single axis UDD sequences. We prove the universality of NUDD and analyze its suppression of different error types in the setting of generalized control pulses. We present an explicit lower bound for the decoupling order of each error type, which we relate to the sequence orders of the nested UDD layers. We find that the error suppression capabilities of NUDD are strongly dependent on the parities and relative magnitudes of all nested UDD sequence orders. This allows us to predict the optimal arrangement of sequence orders. We test and confirm our analysis using numerical simulations.

id: 1207.1669
title: Nonlinear Schr?dinger equation for a PT symmetric delta-functions double well
authors: Holger Cartarius, Daniel Haag, Dennis Dast, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures, to be published in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 444008 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1669
abstract: The time-independent nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation is solved for two attractive delta-function shaped potential wells where an imaginary loss term is added in one well, and a gain term of the same size but with opposite sign in the other. We show that for vanishing nonlinearity the model captures all the features known from studies of PT symmetric optical wave guides, e.g., the coalescence of modes in an exceptional point at a critical value of the loss/gain parameter, and the breaking of PT symmetry beyond. With the nonlinearity present, the equation is a model for a Bose-Einstein condensate with loss and gain in a double well potential. We find that the nonlinear Hamiltonian picks as stationary eigenstates exactly such solutions which render the nonlinear Hamiltonian itself PT symmetric, but observe coalescence and bifurcation scenarios different from those known from linear PT symmetric Hamiltonians.

id: 1207.1671
title: Matrix Product Operators and Central Elements: Classical Description of a Quantum State
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures; final version in press (and a few more corrections)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1671
abstract: We study planar two-dimensional quantum systems on a lattice whose Hamiltonian is a sum of local commuting projectors of bounded range. We consider whether or not such a system has a zero energy ground state. To do this, we consider the problem as a one-dimensional problem, grouping all sites along a column into "supersites"; using $C^*$-algebraic methods (Bravyi and Vyalyi), we can solve this problem if we can characterize the central elements of the interaction algebra on these supersite. Unfortunately, these central elements may be very complex, making brute force impractical. Instead, we show a characterization of these elements in terms of matrix product operators with bounded bond dimension. This bound can be interpreted as a bound on the number of particle types in lattice theories with bounded Hilbert space dimension on each site. Topological order in this approach is related to the existence of certain central elements which cannot be "broken" into smaller pieces without creating an end excitation. Using this bound on bond dimension, we prove that several special cases of this problem are in NP, and we give part of a proof that the general case is in NP. Further, we characterize central elements that appear in certain specific models, including toric code and Levin-Wen models, as either product operators in the Abelian case or matrix product operators with low bond dimension in the non-Abelian case; this matrix product operator representation may have practical application in engineering the complicated multi-spin interactions in the Levin-Wen models.

id: 1207.1688
title: General Formalism for Evaluating the Impact of Phase Noise on Bloch Vector Rotations
authors: Zilong Chen, Justin G. Bohnet, Joshua M. Weiner, James K. Thompson
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 86, 032313 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1688
abstract: Quantum manipulation protocols for quantum sensors and quantum computation often require many single qubit rotations. However, the impact of phase noise in the field that performs the qubit rotations is often neglected or treated only for special cases. We present a general framework for calculating the impact of phase noise on the state of a qubit, as described by its equivalent Bloch vector. The analysis applies to any Bloch vector orientation, and any rotation axis azimuthal angle for both a single pulse, and pulse sequences. Experimental examples are presented for several special cases. We apply the analysis to commonly used composite $\pi$-pulse sequences: CORPSE, SCROFULOUS, and BB1, used to suppress static amplitude and detuning errors, and also to spin echo sequences. We expect the formalism presented will help guide the development and evaluation of future quantum manipulation protocols.

id: 1207.1697
title: On the relation between the Feynman paradox and Aharonov-Bohm effects
authors: Scot McGregor, Ryan Hotovy, Adam Caprez, Herman Batelaan
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures, recently submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1697
abstract: The magnetic Aharonov-Bohm (A-B) effect occurs when a point charge interacts with a line of magnetic flux, while its dual, the Aharonov-Casher (A-C) effect, occurs when a magnetic moment interacts with a line of charge. For the two interacting parts of these physical systems, the equations of motion are discussed in this paper. The generally accepted claim is that both parts of these systems do not accelerate, while Boyer has claimed that both parts of these systems do accelerate. Using the Euler-Lagrange equations we predict that in the case of unconstrained motion only one part of each system accelerates, while momentum remains conserved. This prediction requires a time dependent electromagnetic momentum. For our analysis of unconstrained motion the A-B effects are then examples of the Feynman paradox. In the case of constrained motion, the Euler-Lagrange equations give no forces in agreement with the generally accepted analysis. The quantum mechanical A-B and A-C phase shifts are independent of the treatment of constraint. Nevertheless, experimental testing of the above ideas and further understanding of A-B effects which is central to both quantum mechanics and electromagnetism may be possible.

id: 1207.1712
title: Solving the Graph Isomorphism Problem with a Quantum Annealer
authors: Itay Hen, A. P. Young
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1002.3003 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1712
abstract: We propose a novel method using a quantum annealer -- an analog quantum computer based on the principles of quantum adiabatic evolution -- to solve the Graph Isomorphism problem, in which one has to determine whether two graphs are isomorphic (i.e., can be transformed into each other simply by a relabeling of the vertices). We demonstrate the capabilities of the method by analyzing several types of graph families, focusing on graphs with particularly high symmetry called strongly regular graphs (SRG's). We also show that our method is applicable, within certain limitations, to currently available quantum hardware such as "D-Wave One".

id: 1207.1713
title: Imaging using quantum noise properties of light
authors: Jeremy B. Clark, Zhifan Zhou, Quentin Glorieux, Alberto M. Marino, Paul D. Lett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1713
abstract: We show that it is possible to estimate the shape of an object by measuring only the fluctuations of a probing field, allowing us to expose the object to a minimal light intensity. This scheme, based on noise measurements through homodyne detection, is useful in the regime where the number of photons is low enough that direct detection with a photodiode is difficult but high enough such that photon counting is not an option. We generate a few-photon state of multi-spatial-mode vacuum-squeezed twin beams using four-wave mixing and direct one of these twin fields through a binary intensity mask whose shape is to be imaged. Exploiting either the classical fluctuations in a single beam or quantum correlations between the twin beams, we demonstrate that under some conditions quantum correlations can provide an enhancement in sensitivity when estimating the shape of the object.

id: 1207.1740
title: Designing Efficient Programmable Quantum Circuits
authors: Anmer Daskin, Ananth Grama, Giorgos Kollias, Sabre Kais
comments: This paper is moved as a new version of arXiv:1204.3600
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1740
abstract: Constructing general programmable circuits to be able to run any given unitary operator efficiently on a quantum processor is of fundamental importance. We present a new quantum circuit design technique resulting two general programmable circuit schemes. The circuit schemes can be used to simulate any given operator by setting the angle values in the circuit. This provides a fixed circuit design whose angles are determined from the elements of the given matrix, which can be non-unitary, in an efficient way. We also give both classical and quantum complexity analysis for these circuits and show that the circuits require a few classical computations, and the quantum complexities of them are almost the same as non-general circuits.

id: 1207.1779
title: Violating the Shannon capacity of metric graphs with entanglement
authors: Jop Briet, Harry Buhrman, Dion Gijswijt
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1779
abstract: The Shannon capacity of a graph G is the maximum asymptotic rate at which messages can be sent with zero probability of error through a noisy channel with confusability graph G. This extensively studied graph parameter disregards the fact that on atomic scales, Nature behaves in line with quantum mechanics. Entanglement, arguably the most counterintuitive feature of the theory, turns out to be a useful resource for communication across noisy channels. Recently, Leung, Mancinska, Matthews, Ozols and Roy [Comm. Math. Phys. 311, 2012] presented two examples of graphs whose Shannon capacity is strictly less than the capacity attainable if the sender and receiver have entangled quantum systems. Here we give new, possibly infinite, families of graphs for which the entangled capacity exceeds the Shannon capacity.

id: 1207.1819
title: Optimal robust quantum self-testing by binary nonlocal XOR games
authors: Carl A. Miller, Yaoyun Shi
comments: 5 pages, plus 29 pages of supporting material. v4: fixed typo in abstract
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1819
abstract: Self-testing a quantum device means verifying the existence of a certain quantum state as well as the effect of the associated measurements based only on the statistics of the measurement outcomes. Robust, i.e., error-tolerant, self-testing quantum devices are critical building blocks for quantum cryptographic protocols that rely on imperfect or untrusted quantum devices. We give a criterion which determines whether a given binary XOR game is robust self-testing with the asymptotically optimal error parameter. As an application, we prove that the celebrated CHSH game is an optimally robust self-test. We also prove the same for a family of tests recently proposed by Acin et al. (PRL 108:100402, 2012) for random number generation, thus extending the benefit of the latter tests to allow imperfect or untrusted quantum devices.

id: 1207.1827
title: Quantum gates and multipartite entanglement resonances realized by non-uniform cavity motion
authors: Nicolai Friis, Marcus Huber, Ivette Fuentes, David Edward Bruschi
comments: v2: extended to 9 pages, 2 figures, appendix with explicit witness inequalities added; to appear in Phys. Rev. D; Ivette Fuentes previously published as Ivette Fuentes-Guridi and Ivette Fuentes-Schuller
journal: Phys. Rev. D 86, 105003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1827
abstract: We demonstrate the presence of genuine multipartite entanglement between the modes of quantum fields in non-uniformly moving cavities. The transformations generated by the cavity motion can be considered as multipartite quantum gates. We present two setups for which multi-mode entanglement can be generated for bosons and fermions. As a highlight we show that the bosonic genuine multipartite correlations can be resonantly enhanced. Our results provide fundamental insights into the structure of Bogoliubov transformations and suggest strong links between quantum information, quantum fields in curved spacetimes and gravitational analogs by way of the equivalence principle.

id: 1207.1871
title: Long-range adiabatic quantum state transfer through a tight-binding chain as a quantum data bus
authors: Bing Chen, Wei Fan, Yan Xu, Zhao-yang Chen, Xun-li Feng, C. H. Oh
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1206.6716
journal: Physical Review A 86, 012302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1871
abstract: We introduce a scheme based on adiabatic passage that allows for long-range quantum communication through tight-binding chain with always-on interaction. By adiabatically varying the external gate voltage applied on the system, the electron can be transported from the sender's dot to the aim one.We numerically solve the Schr\"odinger equation for a system with a given number of quantum dots. It is shown that this scheme is a simple and efficient protocol to coherently manipulate the population transfer under suitable gate pulses. The dependence of the energy gap and the transfer time on system parameters is analyzed and shown numerically. Our method provides a guidance for future realization of adiabatic quantum state transfer in experiments.

id: 1207.1901
title: Towards in-situ cleaning of a trapped ion quantum computer
authors: Timothy Harrison
comments: A Part III Project at the University of Cambridge Physics department under the supervision of Prof. Michael K\"ohl in the Atomic and Optical Physics department: this http URL Thanks is given to Prof. Michael K\"ohl,Matthias Steiner and Hendrik Meyer for their help and advice. SEE VIDEOS: this http URL SEE HIGH RES PDF: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1901
abstract: A plasma glow discharge system was created using a conventional microwave oven to ignite and maintain the plasma. The system was used for plasma cleaning and its properties were analysed to assess its viability for removing surface contaminants, which cause anomalous heating, from Paul trap electrodes used in ion trapping. Qualitative results showed that the argon plasma could remove copper oxide layers formed on thin sheets in 1-2 minutes. The addition of air into the plasma system allowed for the cleaning of more complex hydrocarbon contaminants, as highlighted by the removal of permanent marker pen. The surface removal rate of the system was evaluated by measuring the time taken to remove gold plating from washers and aluminium plates. A nominal rate of 5-15 nm per min was found under optimal conditions. Plasma treatment, in addition to wet chemical cleaning, was found to increase the finesse of an optical cavity by a factor of two, compared to acetone cleaning alone. These results are promising for the system's in-situ use on Paul trap electrodes and could be a feasible technique for increasing their lifetime.

id: 1207.1945
title: PT-symmetry breaking and maximal chirality in a nonuniform PT-symmetric ring
authors: Derek D. Scott, Yogesh N. Joglekar
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, preprint
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 444030 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1945
abstract: We study the properties of an N-site tight-binding ring with parity and time-reversal (PT) symmetric, Hermitian, site-dependent tunneling and a pair of non-Hermitian, PT-symmetric, loss and gain impurities $\pm i\gamma$. The properties of such lattices with open boundary conditions have been intensely explored over the past two years. We numerically investigate the PT-symmetric phase in a ring with a position-dependent tunneling function $t_\alpha(k)=[k(N-k)]^{\alpha/2}$ that, in an open lattice, leads to a strengthened PT-symmetric phase, and study the evolution of the PT-symmetric phase from the open chain to a ring. We show that, generally, periodic boundary conditions weaken the PT-symmetric phase, although for experimentally relevant lattice sizes $N \sim 50$, it remains easily accessible. We show that the chirality, quantified by the (magnitude of the) average transverse momentum of a wave packet, shows a maximum at the PT-symmetric threshold. Our results show that although the wavepacket intensity increases monotonically across the PT-breaking threshold, the average momentum decays monotonically on both sides of the threshold.

id: 1207.1946
title: Macroscopic superpositions via nested interferometry: finite temperature and decoherence considerations
authors: Brian Pepper, Evan Jeffrey, Roohollah Ghobadi, Christoph Simon, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 115025 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1946
abstract: Recently there has been much interest in optomechanical devices for the production of macroscopic quantum states. Here we focus on a proposed scheme for achieving macroscopic superpositions via nested interferometry. We consider the effects of finite temperature on the superposition produced. We also investigate in detail the scheme's feasibility for probing various novel decoherence mechanisms.

id: 1207.1952
title: The relation between nonlocality and contextuality for a biphoton
authors: Akihito Soeda, Pawel Kurzynski, Ravishankar Ramanathan, Kavan Modi, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: Close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022120 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1952
abstract: We investigate the set of qutrit states in terms of symmetric states of two qubits that violate the minimal contextual inequality, namely the Klyachko-Can-Binicoglu-Shumovsky (KCBS) inequality. The physical system that provides a natural framework for this problem is a biphoton which consists of two photons in the same spatio-temporal mode and whose effective polarization behaves as a three-level quantum system. The relationship between the KCBS contextual inequality and the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality is investigated. We find that every biphotonic state that is contextual with respect to KCBS is nonlocal as per the CHSH test when the two photons are apart, but the converse is not true.

id: 1207.1979
title: Spectral singularity and deep multiple minima in the reflectivity in non-Hermitian (complex) Ginocchio potential
authors: Ananya Ghatak, Bhabani Prasad Mandal, Zafar Ahmed
comments: total 13 pages, one table and three figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1979
abstract: We bring out the existence of at most one spectral singularity (SS) and deep multiple minima in the reflectivity of the non-Hermitian (complex) Ginocchio potential. We find a parameter dependent single spectral singularity in this potential provided the imaginary part is emissive (not absorptive). The reflectionlessness of the real Hermitian Ginocchio's potential at discrete positive energies gives way to deep multiple minima in reflectivity when this potential is perturbed and made non-Hermitian (complex). A novel co-existence of a SS with deep minima in reflectivity is also revealed wherein the first reflectivity zero of the Hermitian case changes to become a SS for the non-Hermitian case. {PACS: 03.65.Nk,11.30.Er,42.25.Bs}

id: 1207.1988
title: Nonclassical microwave radiation from the dynamical Casimir effect
authors: J. R. Johansson, G. Johansson, C. M. Wilson, P. Delsing, F. Nori
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 87, 043804 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1988
abstract: We investigate quantum correlations in microwave radiation produced by the dynamical Casimir effect in a superconducting waveguide terminated and modulated by a superconducting quantum interference device. We apply nonclassicality tests and evaluate the entanglement for the predicted field states. For realistic circuit parameters, including thermal background noise, the results indicate that the produced radiation can be strictly nonclassical and can have a measurable amount of intermode entanglement. If measured experimentally, these nonclassicalilty indicators could give further evidence of the quantum nature of the dynamical Casimir radiation in these circuits.

id: 1207.2001
title: Many-body Anderson localization in one dimensional systems
authors: Dominique Delande, Krzysztof Sacha, Marcin Plodzien, Sanat K. Avazbaev, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: 12pp, 5 fig, version accepted in NJP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2001
abstract: We show, using quasi-exact numerical simulations, that Anderson localization of one-dimensional particles in a disordered potential survives in the presence of attractive interaction between particles. The localization length of the composite particle can be computed analytically for weak disorder and is in good agreement with the quasi-exact numerical observations using Time Evolving Block Decimation. Our approach allows for simulation of the entire experiment including the final measurement of all atom positions.

id: 1207.2029
title: Strong Kochen-Specker theorem and incomputability of quantum randomness
authors: Alastair A. Abbott, Cristian S. Calude, Jonathan Conder, Karl Svozil
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures, final version
journal: Physical Review A 86(6), 062109 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2029
abstract: The Kochen-Specker theorem shows the impossibility for a hidden variable theory to consistently assign values to certain (finite) sets of observables in a way that is non-contextual and consistent with quantum mechanics. If we require non-contextuality, the consequence is that many observables must not have pre-existing definite values. However, the Kochen-Specker theorem does not allow one to determine which observables must be value indefinite. In this paper we present an improvement on the Kochen-Specker theorem which allows one to actually locate observables which are provably value indefinite. Various technical and subtle aspects relating to this formal proof and its connection to quantum mechanics are discussed. This result is then utilized for the proposal and certification of a dichotomic quantum random number generator operating in a three-dimensional Hilbert space.

id: 1207.2036
title: Non-Markovian dynamics in a spin star system: The failure of thermalization
authors: Zhihai Wang, Yu Guo, D. L. Zhou
comments: 8 pages
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2013) 67: 218
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2036
abstract: In most cases, a small system weakly interacting with a thermal bath will finally reach the thermal state with the temperature of the bath. We show that this intuitive picture is not always true by a spin star model where non-Markov effect predominates in the whole dynamical process. The spin star system consists a central spin homogeneously interacting with an ensemble of identical noninteracting spins. We find that the correlation time of the bath is infinite, which implies that the bath has a perfect memory, and that the dynamical evolution of the central spin must be non- Markovian. A direct consequence is that the final state of the central spin is not the thermal state equilibrium with the bath, but a steady state which depends on its initial state.

id: 1207.2051
title: Non-Abelian geometrical control of a qubit in an NV center in diamond
authors: Jing Lu, Lan Zhou
comments: 5 pages
journal: Eur. Phys. Lett. 102, 30006 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2051
abstract: We propose an approach for an optical qubit rotation in the negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond. The qubit is encoded in the ground degenerate states at the relatively low temperature limit. The basic idea of the rotation procedure is the non-Abelian geometric phase in an adiabatic passage, which is produced by the nonadiabatic transition between the two degenerate dark states. The feasibility is based on the success of modeling the NV center as an excited-doublet four-level atom.

id: 1207.2105
title: How Much and What Kind of Nonlocality? A Sufficient Condition for Singlet Spin Correlations
authors: Mehmet Ali Kuntman, Ertan Kuntman
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2105
abstract: We give a sufficient condition of nonlocality in order to reproduce singlet spin correlations. For a given pair of hidden variables and measurement directions this condition determines only the product of the outcomes and reproduces statistical correlations for all measurement directions; but fails to give a complete description of sub-systems, provides no means to calculate all joint probabilities and puts no constraints on signaling. In order to complete the model we introduce an additional condition. In this case we observe that the character of the nonlocality changes (outcome independence is violated) and nonlocality applies asymmetrically to the spacelike separated parties. At first sight it seems possible to explain this asymmetry by assuming that the observer that measures first determines his outcome locally. However this assumption has no meaning without adopting a privileged reference frame.

id: 1207.2106
title: Squeezed coherent state undergoing a continuous nondemolition observation
authors: A. Dabrowska, P. Staszewski
comments: Some minor corrections have been made
journal: Physics Letters A, Vol. 375, 3950-3955 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2106
abstract: The time evolution of a squeezed coherent state conditioned by the results of a single and double heterodyne measurement is discussed. The mean values of quadratures as well as the dynamics of quadrature uncertainties have been obtained within the framework of the theory of continuous measurements based on filtration equations. It has been found that while the mean values depend on the measured noise, the uncertainties in the optical quadratures are deterministic. Explicit solutions for the latter have been provided. Finally, a time development of the squeeze parameter for the posterior squeezed coherent state has been found.

id: 1207.2126
title: Geometries for universal quantum computation with matchgates
authors: Daniel J. Brod, Ernesto F. Galv?o
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Updated version includes an appendix extending one of the results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052307 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2126
abstract: Matchgates are a group of two-qubit gates associated with free fermions. They are classically simulatable if restricted to act between nearest neighbors on a one-dimensional chain, but become universal for quantum computation with longer-range interactions. We describe various alternative geometries with nearest-neighbor interactions that result in universal quantum computation with matchgates only, including subtle departures from the chain. Our results pave the way for new quantum computer architectures that rely solely on the simple interactions associated with matchgates.

id: 1207.2141
title: Interview with a Quantum Bayesian
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2141
abstract: This paper collects into one place (most of) my answers to the questions Maximilian Schlosshauer posed in his interview volume, "Elegance and Enigma: The Quantum Interviews" (Springer, Frontiers Collection, 2011).

id: 1207.2188
title: Quantum teleportation via maximum-confidence quantum measurements
authors: L. Neves, M. A. Sol¨ªs-Prosser, A. Delgado, O. Jim¨¦nez
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 062322 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2188
abstract: We investigate the problem of teleporting unknown qudit states via pure quantum channels with nonmaximal Schmidt rank. This process is mapped to the problem of discriminating among nonorthogonal symmetric states which are linearly dependent and equally likely. It is shown that by applying an optimized maximum-confidence (MC) measurement for accomplishing this task, one reaches the maximum possible teleportation fidelity after a conclusive event in the discrimination process, which in turn occurs with the maximum success probability. In this case, such fidelity depends only on the Schmidt rank of the channel and it is larger than the optimal one achieved, deterministically, by the standard teleportation protocol. Furthermore, we show that there are quantum channels for which it is possible to apply a k-stage sequential MC measurement in the discrimination process such that a conclusive event at any stage leads to a teleportation fidelity above the aforementioned optimal one and, consequently, increases the overall success probability of teleportation with a fidelity above this limit.

id: 1207.2206
title: Scheme for directly observing the non-commutativity of the position and the momentum operators with interference
authors: Jong-Chan Lee, Yong-Su Kim, Young-Sik Ra, Hyang-Tag Lim, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2206
abstract: Although non-commutativity of a certain set of quantum operators (e.g., creation/annihilation operators and Pauli spin operators) has been shown experimentally in recent years, the commu- tation relation for the position and the momentum operators has not been directly demonstrated to date. In this paper, we propose and analyze an experimental scheme for directly observing the non-commutativity of the position and the momentum operators using single-photon quantum in- terference. While the scheme is studied for the single-photon state as the input quantum state, the analysis applies equally to matter-wave interference, allowing a direct test of the position-momentum commutation relation with a massive particle.

id: 1207.2208
title: Comment on "Geometric derivation of the quantum speed limit"
authors: Marcin Zwierz
comments: 4 pages, comment on arXiv:1003.4870, published version
journal: Physical Review A 86, 016101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2208
abstract: Recently, Jones and Kok [P. J. Jones and P. Kok, Phys. Rev. A 82, 022107 (2010)] presented alternative geometric derivations of the Mandelstam-Tamm [L. Mandelstam and I. Tamm, J. Phys. (USSR) 9, 249 (1945)] and Margolus-Levitin [N. Margolus and L. B. Levitin, Phys. D 120, 188 (1998)] inequalities for the quantum speed of dynamical evolution. The Margolus-Levitin inequality followed from an upper bound on the rate of change of the statistical distance between two arbitrary pure quantum states. We show that the derivation of this bound is incorrect. Subsequently, we provide two upper bounds on the rate of change of the statistical distance, expressed in terms of the standard deviation of the generator K and its expectation value above the ground state. The bounds lead to the Mandelstam-Tamm inequality and a quantum speed limit which is only slightly weaker than the Margolus-Levitin inequality.

id: 1207.2276
title: Pseudo-telepathy games and genuine NS k-way nonlocality using graph states
authors: Anurag Anshu, Mehdi Mhalla
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information and Computation VOL13 No 9&10 (0834-0846) 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2276
abstract: We define a family of pseudo-telepathy games using graph states that extends the Mermin games. This family also contains a game used to define a quantum probability distribution that cannot be simulated by any number of PR boxes. We extend this result proving that the probability distribution obtained by the Paley graph state on 13 vertices cannot be simulated by any number of 4-partite non local boxes and that the Paley graph states on more than $k^{2}2^{2k-2}$ vertices provides a probability distribution that cannot be simulated by k-partite nonlocal boxes

id: 1207.2286
title: The chain rule implies Tsirelson's bound: an approach from generalized mutual information
authors: Eyuri Wakakuwa, Mio Murao
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures, Added Section 2 and Appendix B, result unchanged, Added references
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 113037 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2286
abstract: In order to analyze an information theoretical derivation of Tsirelson's bound based on information causality, we introduce a generalized mutual information (GMI), defined as the optimal coding rate of a channel with classical inputs and general probabilistic outputs. In the case where the outputs are quantum, the GMI coincides with the quantum mutual information. In general, the GMI does not necessarily satisfy the chain rule. We prove that Tsirelson's bound can be derived by imposing the chain rule on the GMI. We formulate a principle, which we call the no-supersignalling condition, which states that the assistance of nonlocal correlations does not increase the capability of classical communication. We prove that this condition is equivalent to the no-signalling condition. As a result, we show that Tsirelson's bound is implied by the nonpositivity of the quantitative difference between information causality and no-supersignalling.

id: 1207.2307
title: Efficient Distributed Quantum Computing
authors: Robert Beals, Stephen Brierley, Oliver Gray, Aram Harrow, Samuel Kutin, Noah Linden, Dan Shepherd, Mark Stather
comments: Some material rearranged and references added
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 2013 469, 20120686
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2307
abstract: We provide algorithms for efficiently addressing quantum memory in parallel. These imply that the standard circuit model can be simulated with low overhead by the more realistic model of a distributed quantum computer. As a result, the circuit model can be used by algorithm designers without worrying whether the underlying architecture supports the connectivity of the circuit. In addition, we apply our results to existing memory intensive quantum algorithms. We present a parallel quantum search algorithm and improve the time-space trade-off for the Element Distinctness and Collision problems.

id: 1207.2321
title: Three path interference using nuclear magnetic resonance: a test of the consistency of Born's rule
authors: Daniel K. Park, Osama Moussa, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures; Improved presentation of figures 1 and 4, changes made in section 2 to better describe the experiment, minor changes throughout, and added several references
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 113025
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2321
abstract: The Born rule is at the foundation of quantum mechanics and transforms our classical way of understanding probabilities by predicting that interference occurs between pairs of independent paths of a single object. One consequence of the Born rule is that three way (or three paths) quantum interference does not exist. In order to test the consistency of the Born rule, we examine detection probabilities in three path intereference using an ensemble of spin-1/2 quantum registers in liquid state nuclear magnetic resonance (LSNMR). As a measure of the consistency, we evaluate the ratio of three way interference to two way interference. Our experiment bounded the ratio to the order of $10^{-3} \pm 10^{-3}$, and hence it is consistent with Born's rule.

id: 1207.2343
title: Local in time master equations with memory effects: Applicability and interpretation
authors: E.-M. Laine, K. Luoma, J. Piilo
comments: Special issue on loss of coherence and memory effects in quantum dynamics, J. Phys. B., to appear
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 154004 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2343
abstract: Non-Markovian local in time master equations give a relatively simple way to describe the dynamics of open quantum systems with memory effects. Despite their simple form, there are still many misunderstandings related to the physical applicability and interpretation of these equations. Here we clarify these issues both in the case of quantum and classical master equations. We further introduce the concept of a classical non-Markov chain signified through negative jump rates in the chain configuration.

id: 1207.2376
title: Quantum Entanglement of High Angular Momenta
authors: Robert Fickler, Radek Lapkiewicz, William N. Plick, Mario Krenn, Christoph Schaeff, Sven Ramelow, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: Science, Vol. 338, 640-643 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2376
abstract: Single photons with helical phase structures may carry a quantized amount of orbital angular momentum (OAM) and their entanglement is important for quantum information science and fundamental tests of quantum theory. Because there is no theoretical upper limit on how many quanta of OAM a single photon can carry, it is possible to create entanglement between two particles with an arbitrary high difference in the quantum number. By transferring polarization entanglement to OAM with an interferometric scheme, we generate and verify entanglement up to 600 quanta difference in the orbital angular momentum. The only restrictive factors towards higher numbers are current technical limitations. We also experimentally demonstrate that the entanglement of very high OAM can improve the sensitivity of the angular resolution in remote sensing.

id: 1207.2419
title: Stern-Gerlach Experiments and Complex Numbers in Quantum Physics
authors: S. Sivakumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2419
abstract: It is often stated that complex numbers are essential in quantum theory. In this article, the need for complex numbers in quantum theory is motivated using the results of tandem Stern-Gerlach experiments

id: 1207.2485
title: Quantum algorithm and circuit design solving the Poisson equation
authors: Yudong Cao, Anargyros Papageorgiou, Iasonas Petras, Joseph Traub, Sabre Kais
comments: 30 pages, 9 figures. This is the revised version for publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 013021
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2485
abstract: The Poisson equation occurs in many areas of science and engineering. Here we focus on its numerical solution for an equation in d dimensions. In particular we present a quantum algorithm and a scalable quantum circuit design which approximates the solution of the Poisson equation on a grid with error \varepsilon. We assume we are given a supersposition of function evaluations of the right hand side of the Poisson equation. The algorithm produces a quantum state encoding the solution. The number of quantum operations and the number of qubits used by the circuit is almost linear in d and polylog in \varepsilon^{-1}. We present quantum circuit modules together with performance guarantees which can be also used for other problems.

id: 1207.2518
title: Quantum entanglement in n-qubit real equally weighted states
authors: Ri Qu, Yanru Bao
comments: 16 pages 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2518
abstract: The n-qubit real equally weighted states are employed in some quantum algorithms including Deutsch-Jozsa, Grover, Simon, and so on. We qualitatively investigate the entanglement properties of n-qubit real equally weighted states. Firstly, all of the n-qubit real equally weighted states are classified into 7 parts by means of their structural degrees. Then we analyze the multipartite entanglement features of the states in every part by means of separable and similar degrees.

id: 1207.2549
title: A perturbative approach to calculating the Casimir force in fluctuating scalar and vector fields
authors: Fardin Kheirandish, Marjan Jafari
comments: 20 pages, two figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2549
abstract: Based on a perturbative approach, a series expansion in susceptibility function of the medium is obtained for the Casimir force between arbitrary shaped objects immersed in a scalar or vector fluctuating field in arbitrary dimensions. Finite-temperature corrections are derived and the results are compared in first order with weak coupling regime in scattering method. The generalization to a massive vector field is also investigated.

id: 1207.2574
title: Robustness of Device Independent Dimension Witnesses
authors: Michele Dall'Arno, Elsa Passaro, Rodrigo Gallego, Antonio Acin
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042312 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2574
abstract: Device independent dimension witnesses provide a lower bound on the dimensionality of classical and quantum systems in a "black box" scenario where only correlations between preparations, measurements and outcomes are considered. We address the problem of the robustness of dimension witnesses, namely that to witness the dimension of a system or to discriminate between its quantum or classical nature, even in the presence of loss. We consider the case when shared randomness is allowed between preparations and measurements and we provide a threshold in the detection efficiency such that dimension witnessing can still be performed.

id: 1207.2601
title: Process Tomography for Systems in a Thermal State
authors: Ran Ber, Shmuel Marcovitch, Oded Kenneth, Benni Reznik
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15 013050 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2601
abstract: We propose a new method for implementing process tomography that is based on the information extracted from temporal correlations between observables, rather than on state preparation and state tomography. As such, the approach is applicable to systems that are in a mixed state, and in particular to thermal states. We illustrate the method for an arbitrary evolution described by Kraus operators, as well as for simpler cases such as a general Gaussian channels, and qubit dynamics.

id: 1207.2650
title: Monogamy of Quantum Discord by Multipartite Correlations
authors: H. C. Braga, C. C. Rulli, Thiago R. de Oliveira, M. S. Sarandy
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062106 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2650
abstract: We introduce a monogamy inequality for quantum correlations, which implies that the sum of pairwise quantum correlations is upper limited by the amount of multipartite quantum correlations as measured by the global quantum discord. This monogamy bound holds either for pure or mixed quantum states provided that bipartite quantum discord does not increase under discard of subsystems. We illustrate the monogamy behavior for multipartite pure states with Schmidt decomposition as well as for W-GHZ mixed states. As a by-product, we apply the monogamy bound to investigate residual multipartite correlations.

id: 1207.2664
title: Digital Quantum Simulation of the Holstein Model in Trapped Ions
authors: A. Mezzacapo, J. Casanova, L. Lamata, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages + supplemental material, 3+3 figures. Accepted in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 200501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2664
abstract: We propose the implementation of the Holstein model by means of digital methods in a linear chain of trapped ions. We show how the simulation fidelity scales with the generation of phononic excitations. We propose a decomposition and a stepwise trapped-ion implementation of the Holstein Hamiltonian. Via numerical simulations, we study how the protocol is affected by realistic gates. Finally, we show how measurements of the size of the simulated polaron can be performed.

id: 1207.2670
title: Optimal Storage and Retrieval of Single-Photon Waveforms
authors: Shuyu Zhou, Shanchao Zhang, Chang Liu, J. F. Chen, Jianming Wen, M. M. T. Loy, G. K. L. Wong, Shengwang Du
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express 20, 24124 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2670
abstract: We report an experimental demonstration of optimal storage and retrieval of heralded single-photon wave packets using electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in cold atoms at a high optical depth. We obtain an optimal storage efficiency of (49+/-3)% for single-photon waveforms with a temporal likeness of 96%. Our result brings the EIT quantum light-matter interface close to practical quantum information applications.

id: 1207.2677
title: Branched Quantization
authors: Alfred Shapere, Frank Wilczek
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. v2: Eqn.(20) corrected, minor typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2677
abstract: We propose a method for quantization of Lagrangians for which the Hamiltonian, as a function of momentum, is a branched function with cusps. Appropriate boundary conditions, which we identify, insure unitary time evolution. In special cases a dual (canonical) transformation maps the problem into a problem of quantum mechanics on singular spatial manifolds, which we also develop. Several possible applications are indicated.

id: 1207.2688
title: Local Unitary Equivalence of Arbitrary Dimensional Bipartite Mixed Quantum States
authors: Chunqin Zhou, Tinggui Zhang, Shao-Ming Fei, Naihuan Jing, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 010303(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2688
abstract: The nonlocal properties of arbitrary dimensional bipartite quantum systems are investigated. A complete set of invariants under local unitary transformations is presented. These invariants give rise to both sufficient and necessary conditions for the equivalence of quantum states under local unitary transformations: two density matrices are locally equivalent if and only if all these invariants have equal values.

id: 1207.2769
title: Adiabatic Quantum Transistors
authors: Dave Bacon, Steven T. Flammia, Gregory M. Crosswhite
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures; v2 improved clarity and other (mostly) minor changes; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 021015 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2769
abstract: We describe a many-body quantum system which can be made to quantum compute by the adiabatic application of a large applied field to the system. Prior to the application of the field quantum information is localized on one boundary of the device, and after the application of the field this information has propagated to the other side of the device with a quantum circuit applied to the information. The applied circuit depends on the many-body Hamiltonian of the material, and the computation takes place in a degenerate ground space with symmetry-protected topological order. Such adiabatic quantum transistors are universal adiabatic quantum computing devices which have the added benefit of being modular. Here we describe this model, provide arguments for why it is an efficient model of quantum computing, and examine these many-body systems in the presence of a noisy environment.

id: 1207.2786
title: Comment on `A scattering quantum circuit for measuring Bell's time inequality: a nuclear magnetic resonance demonstration using maximally mixed states'
authors: George C. Knee, Erik M. Gauger, G. Andrew D. Briggs, Simon C. Benjamin
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 2012 New J. Phys. 14 058001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2786
abstract: A recent paper by Souza, Oliveira and Sarthour (SOS) reports the experimental violation of a Leggett-Garg inequality (sometimes referred to as a temporal Bell inequality). The inequality tests for quantum mechanical superposition: if the inequality is violated, the dynamics cannot be explained by a large class of classical theories under the heading of macrorealism. Experimental tests of the LG inequality are beset by the difficulty of performing the necessary so-called 'non-invasive' measurements (which for the macrorealist will extract information from a system of interest without disturbing it). SOS argue that they nevertheless achieve this difficult goal by putting the system in a maximally mixed state. The system then allegedly undergoes no perturbation during their experiment. Unfortunately the method is ultimately unconvincing to a skeptical macrorealist, and so the conclusions drawn by SOS are unjustified.

id: 1207.2794
title: Proposal to demonstrate the non-locality of Bohmian mechanics with entangled photons
authors: Boris Braverman, Christoph Simon
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 060406 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2794
abstract: Bohmian mechanics reproduces all statistical predictions of quantum mechanics, which ensures that entanglement cannot be used for superluminal signaling. However, individual Bohmian particles can experience superluminal influences. We propose to illustrate this point using a double double-slit setup with path-entangled photons. The Bohmian velocity field for one of the photons can be measured using a recently demonstrated weak-measurement technique. The found velocities strongly depend on the value of a phase shift that is applied to the other photon, potentially at spacelike separation.

id: 1207.2827
title: Quantum entanglement and approximation by positive matrices
authors: Xiaofen Huang, Naihuan Jing
comments: 8 pages
journal: Quantized algebra and physics, pp.138--146, Nankai Ser. Pure Appl. Math. Theoret. Phys., 8, World Sci., 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2827
abstract: We give an exact solution to the nonlinear optimization problem of approximating a Hermitian matrix by positive semi-definite matrices. Our algorithm was then used to judge whether a quantum state is entangled or not. We show that the exact approximation of a density matrices by tensor product of positive semi-definite operators is determined by the additivity property of the density matrix.

id: 1207.2828
title: Effects of Dipole-Dipole Interaction on the Transmitted spectrum of Two-level Atoms trapped in an optical cavity
authors: Yuqing Zhang, Lei Tan, Peter Barker
comments: 12pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 043838 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2828
abstract: The transmission spectrum of two dipole-dipole coupled atoms interacting with a single-mode optical cavity in strong coupling regime is investigated theoretically for the lower and higher excitation cases, respectively. The dressed states containing the dipole-dipole interaction (DDI) are obtained by transforming the two-atom system into an effective single-atom one. We found that the DDI can enhance the effects resulting from the positive atom-cavity detunings but weaken them for the negative detunings cases for lower excitation, which can promote the spectrum exhibiting two asymmetric peaks and shift the heights and the positions of them. For the higher excitation cases, DDI can augment the atomic saturation and lead to the deforming of the spectrum. Furthermore, the large DDI can make the atom and the cavity decouple, making a singlet of the normal-mode spectrum.

id: 1207.2841
title: Comment on "Uncertainty Relation for Photons"
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong, Qi Qiu
comments: Detailed version of a Comment, 11 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 188901 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2841
abstract: In a recent interesting Letter [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 140401 (2012)] I. Bialynicki-Birula and his coauthor have derived the uncertainty relation for the photons in three dimensions. However, some of their arguments are problematical, and this impacts their conclusion.

id: 1207.2882
title: Simplified construction of $n$-qubit controlled phase gates and physical realization
authors: Shi Biao Zheng
comments: to be published in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2882
abstract: We show that with the assistance of a third level of the qubits an n-qubit phase gate can be constructed from $2n-4$ two-qutrit conditional swap gates, a single qutrit-qubit controlled phase gate, and two single-qutrit operations. Unlike previous schemes, our scheme uses the auxiliary level to "expose" some state to the qutrit-qubit controlled phase gate, instead of using it to "hide" states from the conditional dynamics. Neither the number of the additional levels nor that of single-qutrit operations needs to increase with $n$. We propose a physical implementation of the required elementary gates in cavity QED, and show that the total gate time may be greatly reduced as compared with that required in the previous methods.

id: 1207.2884
title: Generation of atomic and field squeezing by adiabatic passage and symmetry breaking
authors: Shi Biao Zheng
comments: to be published in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2884
abstract: We propose an efficient scheme for realizing squeezing for both an atomic ensemble and a cavity field via adiabatic evolution of the dark state of the atom-cavity system. Controlled symmetry breaking of the Hamiltonian ensures a unique dark state for the total system, in which the atomic system or cavity mode is squeezed depending upon the choice of the detunings. Since the generation of the atomic squeezed state requires neither the cavity mode nor the atomic system to be excited, the decoherence effects are effectively suppressed. The scheme is insensitive to the uncertainty in the atomic number and imperfect timing, and the time needed for the generation of the desired squeezed state decreases as the size of the system grows. The required experimental techniques are within the scope of what can be obtained in the present cavity QED setups.

id: 1207.2889
title: Estimating entanglement monotones with a generalization of the Wootters formula
authors: Zhi-Hua Chen, Zhi-Hao Ma, Otfried G¨¹hne, Simone Severini
comments: 8 pages, one figure, v2: small changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 200503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2889
abstract: Entanglement monotones, such as the concurrence, are useful tools to characterize quantum correlations in various physical systems. The computation of the concurrence involves, however, difficult optimizations and only for the simplest case of two qubits a closed formula was found by Wootters [Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 2245 (1998)]. We show how this approach can be generalized, resulting in lower bounds on the concurrence for higher dimensional systems as well as for multipartite systems. We demonstrate that for certain families of states our results constitute the strongest bipartite entanglement criterion so far; moreover, they allow to recognize novel families of multiparticle bound entangled states.

id: 1207.2894
title: Efficient and long-lived quantum memory with cold atoms inside a ring cavity
authors: Xiao-Hui Bao, Andreas Reingruber, Peter Dietrich, Jun Rui, Alexander D¨¹ck, Thorsten Strassel, Li Li, Nai-Le Liu, Bo Zhao, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 8, 517-521 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2894
abstract: Quantum memories are regarded as one of the fundamental building blocks of linear-optical quantum computation and long-distance quantum communication. A long standing goal to realize scalable quantum information processing is to build a long-lived and efficient quantum memory. There have been significant efforts distributed towards this goal. However, either efficient but short-lived or long-lived but inefficient quantum memories have been demonstrated so far. Here we report a high-performance quantum memory in which long lifetime and high retrieval efficiency meet for the first time. By placing a ring cavity around an atomic ensemble, employing a pair of clock states, creating a long-wavelength spin wave, and arranging the setup in the gravitational direction, we realize a quantum memory with an intrinsic spin wave to photon conversion efficiency of 73(2)% together with a storage lifetime of 3.2(1) ms. This realization provides an essential tool towards scalable linear-optical quantum information processing.

id: 1207.2909
title: Many-body transverse interactions in the quantum annealing of the p-spin ferromagnet
authors: Beatriz Seoane, Hidetoshi Nishimori
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 435301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2909
abstract: We study the performance of quantum annealing for the simple $p$-body infinite-range ferromagnetic Ising model. In particular, we generalize the transverse antiferromagnetic interactions proposed by Seki and Nishimori as a quantum driver to many-body transverse interactions to understand if the two-body interactions are essential to allow the system to avoid troublesome first-order quantum phase transitions. We conclude that the general many-body interactions are effective to let the system evolve only through second-order transitions as long as a few minor conditions are satisfied. It is also discussed whether the overlap of the ground-state wave function of the new driver term with the target ground state is an essential factor for the success.

id: 1207.2917
title: Field-free molecular orientation by THz laser pulses at high temperature
authors: M. Lapert, D. Sugny
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063418 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2917
abstract: We investigate to which extend a THz laser pulse can be used to produce field-free molecular orientation at high temperature. We consider laser pulses that can be implemented with the state of the art technology and we show that the efficiency of the control scheme crucially depends on the parameters of the molecule. We analyze the temperature effects on molecular dynamics and we demonstrate that, for some molecules, a noticeable orientation can be achieved at high temperature.

id: 1207.2939
title: Stochastic Schroedinger equations and applications to Ehrenfest-type theorems
authors: Franco Fagnola, Carlos M. Mora
comments: 
journal: ALEA, Lat. Am. J. Probab. Math. Stat. 10 (1), 191--223 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2939
abstract: We study stochastic evolution equations describing the dynamics of open quantum systems. First, using resolvent approximations, we obtain a sufficient condition for regularity of solutions to linear stochastic Schroedinger equations driven by cylindrical Brownian motions applying to many physical systems. Then, we establish well-posedness and norm conservation property of a wide class of open quantum systems described in position representation. Moreover, we prove Ehrenfest-type theorems that describe the evolution of the mean value of quantum observables in open systems. Finally, we give a new criterion for existence and uniqueness of weak solutions to non-linear stochastic Schroedinger equations. We apply our results to physical systems such as fluctuating ion traps and quantum measurement processes of position.

id: 1207.2967
title: General conditions for the generation of long-distance entanglement
authors: Tomotaka Kuwahara
comments: 28pages, 17figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 123032
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2967
abstract: We generally investigate necessary conditions for the generation of the long-distance entanglement. We consider a quantum system in which a system mediates the indirect interaction between two spins, which we refer to as probe spins. First, we weaken the coupling between each probe spin and the mediator system to the infinitesimal strength in order to generate the long-distance entanglement. We give two necessary conditions for the mediator system to generate the long-distance entanglement. We prove that the indirect interaction cannot generate the entanglement if it is `classical.' We also give a necessary condition for the effective fields on the probe spins to satisfy. Second, we generate the long-distance entanglement by the use of only external fields. We show that external fields on the adjacent spins to the probes are necessary in addition to external fields on the probe spins. Finally, we consider the cases where the coupling strength between each probe spin and the mediator system is finite. In particular, we show two examples where the external fields on the mediator system highly enhance the long-distance entanglement.

id: 1207.2978
title: Holevo's bound from a general quantum fluctuation theorem
authors: Dvir Kafri, Sebastian Deffner
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 86 (2012), 044302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2978
abstract: We give a novel derivation of Holevo's bound using an important result from nonequilibrium statistical physics, the fluctuation theorem. To do so we develop a general formalism of quantum fluctuation theorems for two-time measurements, which explicitly accounts for the back action of quantum measurements as well as possibly non-unitary time evolution. For a specific choice of observables this fluctuation theorem yields a measurement-dependent correction to the Holevo bound, leading to a tighter inequality. We conclude by analyzing equality conditions for the improved bound.

id: 1207.3011
title: Measuring Nothing
authors: Daniel K. L. Oi, Vaclav Potocek, John Jeffers
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3011
abstract: Measurement is integral to quantum information processing and communication; it is how information encoded in the state of a system is transformed into classical signals for further use. In quantum optics, measurements are typically destructive, so that the state is not available afterwards for further steps - crucial for sequential measurement schemes. The development of practical methods for non-destructive measurements on optical fields is therefore an important topic for future practical quantum information processing systems. Here we show how to measure the presence or absence of the vacuum in a quantum optical field without destroying the state, implementing the ideal projections onto the respective subspaces. This not only enables sequential measurements, useful for quantum communication, but it can also be adapted to create novel states of light via bare raising and lowering operators.

id: 1207.3048
title: Improving the efficiency of single and multiple teleportation protocols based on the direct use of partially entangled states
authors: Raphael Fortes, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: v1: 16 pages, 10 figures, RevTex4-1; v2: published version, 25 pages, single column
journal: Annals of Physics 336, 517 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3048
abstract: We push the limits of the direct use of partially pure entangled states to perform quantum teleportation by presenting several protocols in many different scenarios that achieve the optimal efficiency possible. We review and put in a single formalism the three major strategies known to date that allow one to use partially entangled states for direct quantum teleportation (no distillation strategies permitted) and compare their efficiencies in real world implementations. We show how one can improve the efficiency of many direct teleportation protocols by combining these techniques. We then develop new teleportation protocols employing multipartite partially entangled states. The three techniques are also used here in order to achieve the highest efficiency possible. Finally, we prove the upper bound for the optimal success rate for protocols based on partially entangled Bell states and show that some of the protocols here developed achieve such a bound.

id: 1207.3052
title: Rotating Casimir systems: magnetic-field-enhanced perpetual motion, possible realization in doped nanotubes, and laws of thermodynamics
authors: M. N. Chernodub
comments: 19 pages, 11 figures; v2: extended discussions; analogy with split-ring metamaterials stressed; comments are always welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 025021 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3052
abstract: Recently, we have demonstrated that for a certain class of Casimir-type systems ("devices") the energy of zero-point vacuum fluctuations reaches its global minimum when the device rotates about a certain axis rather than remains static. This rotational vacuum effect may lead to the emergence of permanently rotating objects provided the negative rotational energy of zero-point fluctuations cancels the positive rotational energy of the device itself. In this paper, we show that for massless electrically charged particles the rotational vacuum effect should be drastically (astronomically) enhanced in the presence of a magnetic field. As an illustration, we show that in a background of experimentally available magnetic fields the zero-point energy of massless excitations in rotating torus-shaped doped carbon nanotubes may indeed overwhelm the classical energy of rotation for certain angular frequencies so that the permanently rotating state is energetically favored. The suggested "zero-point driven" devices -- which have no internally moving parts -- correspond to a perpetuum mobile of a new, fourth kind: They do not produce any work despite the fact that their equilibrium (ground) state corresponds to a permanent rotation even in the presence of an external environment. We show that our proposal is consistent with the laws of thermodynamics.

id: 1207.3053
title: Direct estimation of decoherence rates
authors: Vladim¨ªr Bu?ek, Peter Rapcan, Jochen Rau, Mario Ziman
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, v2: reference added
journal: Physical Review A 86, 052109 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3053
abstract: The decoherence rate is a nonlinear channel parameter that describes quantitatively the decay of the off-diagonal elements of a density operator in the decoherence basis. We address the question of how to experimentally access such a nonlinear parameter directly without the need of complete process tomography. In particular, we design a simple experiment working with two copies of the channel, in which the registered mean value of a two-valued measurement directly determines the value of the average decoherence rate. No prior knowledge of the decoherence basis is required.

id: 1207.3087
title: On the alternatives for bath correlators and spectral densities from mixed quantum-classical simulations
authors: St¨¦phanie Valleau, Alex Eisfeld, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 21 pages, 16 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 224103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3087
abstract: We investigate on the procedure of extracting a "spectral density" from mixed QM/MM calculations and employing it in open quantum systems models. In particular, we study the connection between the energy gap correlation function extracted from ground state QM/MM and the bath spectral density used as input in open quantum system approaches. We introduce a simple model which can give intuition on when the ground state QM/MM propagation will give the correct energy gap. We also discuss the role of higher order correlators of the energy-gap fluctuations which can provide useful information on the bath. Further, various semiclassical corrections to the spectral density, are applied and investigated. Finally, we apply our considerations to the photosynthetic Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex. For this system, our results suggest the use of the Harmonic prefactor for the spectral density rather than the Standard one, which was employed in the simulations of the system carried out to date.

id: 1207.3095
title: Fast population transfer engineering of three-level systems
authors: Xi Chen, J. G. Muga
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033405 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3095
abstract: We design, by invariant-based inverse engineering, resonant laser pulses to perform fast population transfers in three-level systems. The efficiency and laser intensities are examined for different protocols. The energy cost to improve the fidelity is quantified. The laser intensities can be reduced by populating the intermediate state and by multi-mode driving.

id: 1207.3104
title: Quantum Driven Dissipative Parametric Oscillator in a Blackbody Radiation Field
authors: Leonardo A. Pach¨®n, Paul Brumer
comments: 11 pages. It matches the published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 012103 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3104
abstract: We consider the general open system problem of a charged quantum oscillator confined in a harmonic trap, whose frequency can be arbitrarily modulated in time, that interacts with both an incoherent quantized (blackbody) radiation field and with an arbitrary coherent laser field. We assume that the oscillator is initially in thermodynamic equilibrium with its environment, a non-factorized initial density matrix of the system and the environment, and that at $t=0$ the modulation of the frequency, the coupling to the incoherent and the coherent radiation are switched on. The subsequent dynamics, induced by the presence of the blackbody radiation and the laser field, is studied in the framework of the influence functional approach. This approach allows incorporating, in \emph{analytic closed formulae}, the non-Markovian character of the oscillator-environment interaction at any temperature as well the non-Markovian character of the blackbody radiation and its zero-point fluctuations. Expressions for the time evolution of the covariance matrix elements of the quantum fluctuations and the reduced density-operator are obtained.

id: 1207.3114
title: Detectability, Invasiveness and the Quantum Three Box Paradox
authors: O. J. E. Maroney
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3114
abstract: Quantum pre- and post-selection (PPS) paradoxes occur when counterfactual inferences are made about different measurements that might have been performed, between two measurements that are actually performed. The 3 box paradox is the paradigm example of such a paradox, where a ball is placed in one of three boxes and it is inferred that it would have been found, with certainty, both in box 1 and in box 2 had either box been opened on their own. Precisely what is at stake in PPS paradoxes has been unclear, and classical models have been suggested which are supposed to mimic the essential features of the problem. We show that the essential difference between the classical and quantum pre- and post-selection effects lies in the fact that for a quantum PPS paradox to occur the intervening measurement, had it been performed, would need to be invasive but non-detectable. This invasiveness is required even for null result measurements. While some quasi-classical features (such as non-contextuality and macrorealism) are compatible with PPS paradoxes, it seems no fully classical model of the 3 box paradox is possible.

id: 1207.3125
title: Control of two-atom entanglement with two thermal fields in coupled cavities
authors: Li-Tuo Shen, Zhen-Biao Yang, Huai-Zhi Wu, Xin-Yu Chen, Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: Accepted by JOSA B
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 29, Issue 9, pp. 2379-2385 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3125
abstract: The dynamical evolution of a quantum system composed of two coupled cavities, each containing a two-level atom and a single-mode thermal field, is investigated under different conditions. The entanglement between the two atoms is controlled by the hopping strength and the detuning between the atomic transition and the cavities. We find that when the atomic transition is far off-resonant with both the eigenmodes of the coupled cavity system, the maximally entangled state for the two atoms can be generated with the initial state in which one atom is in the ground state and the other is in the excited state. When both the two atoms are initially in the excited state, the entanglement exhibits period sudden birth and death. By choosing appropriate parameter values, the initial maximal entanglement of the two atoms can be frozen. The relation between the concurrence and cooperative parameter is calculated.

id: 1207.3180
title: A Connection between Special Theory of Relativity and Quantum Theory
authors: I. Mayer
comments: 6 pages. "Addenda" are included with clarifying remarks and references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3180
abstract: The special theory of relativity does not predict the existence of photons (quanta of electromagnetic radiation). However, it is demonstrated here that it follows from the special theory of relativity that if photons do exist---and we know that they do---then their energy must be proportional to their frequency. This means that the Planck-Einstein formula E=h\nu\ follows just from some results of the special theory of relativity and the assumption of the particle--wave duality.

id: 1207.3184
title: Engineering fast and stable splitting of matter waves
authors: E. Torrontegui, S. Mart¨ªnez-Garaot, M. Modugno, Xi Chen, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87, 033630 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3184
abstract: When attempting to split coherent cold atom clouds or a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) by bifurcation of the trap into a double well, slow adiabatic following is unstable with respect to any slight asymmetry, and the wave "collapses" to the lower well, whereas a generic fast chopping splits the wave but it also excites it. Shortcuts to adiabaticity engineered to speed up the adiabatic process through non-adiabatic transients, provide instead quiet and robust fast splitting. The non-linearity of the BEC makes the proposed shortcut even more stable.

id: 1207.3196
title: Noncovariant gauge fixing in the quantum Dirac field theory of atoms and molecules
authors: Adam Stokes
comments: 8 pages, 0 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012511 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3196
abstract: Starting from the Weyl gauge formulation of quantum electrodynamics (QED), the formalism of quantum-mechanical gauge fixing is extended using techniques from nonrelativistic QED. This involves expressing the redundant gauge degrees of freedom through an arbitrary functional of the gauge-invariant transverse degrees of freedom. Particular choices of functional can be made to yield the Coulomb gauge and Poincar\'{e} gauge representations. The Hamiltonian we derive therefore serves as a good starting point for the description of atoms and molecules by means of a relativistic Dirac field. We discuss important implications for the ontology of noncovariant canonical QED due to the gauge freedom that remains present in our formulation.

id: 1207.3215
title: Generation of a wave packet tailored to efficient free space excitation of a single atom
authors: Andrea Golla, Benoit Chalopin, Marianne Bader, Irina Harder, Klaus Mantel, Robert Maiwald, Norbert Lindlein, Markus Sondermann, Gerd Leuchs
comments: to be published in Europ. Phys. J. D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D, vol. 66, 190 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3215
abstract: We demonstrate the generation of an optical dipole wave suitable for the process of efficiently coupling single quanta of light and matter in free space. We employ a parabolic mirror for the conversion of a transverse beam mode to a focused dipole wave and show the required spatial and temporal shaping of the mode incident onto the mirror. The results include a proof of principle correction of the parabolic mirror's aberrations. For the application of exciting an atom with a single photon pulse we demonstrate the creation of a suitable temporal pulse envelope. We infer coupling strengths of 89% and success probabilities of up to 87% for the application of exciting a single atom for the current experimental parameters.

id: 1207.3248
title: Wavepacket detection with the Unruh-DeWitt model
authors: Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Miguel Montero, Marco del Rey
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 064038 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3248
abstract: In this paper we deal with several issues regarding the localization properties of the Unruh-DeWitt (UdW) detector model. Since its original formulation as a pointlike detector, the UdW model has been used to study extensively the physics of quantum fields in presence of accelerations or curved backgrounds. Natural extensions of it have tried to take into account the spatial profile of such detectors, but all of them have met a series of problems in their spectral response which render them useless to study some of the most interesting physical scenarios. In this paper we provide a derivation of the smeared UdW interaction from QED first principles, then we analyze the spectral response of spatially smeared UdW detectors, and discuss the kind of spatial profiles which are useful for the study of relevant cases.

id: 1207.3261
title: Quantum logarithmic Sobolev inequalities and rapid mixing
authors: Michael J. Kastoryano, Kristan Temme
comments: Updated manuscript, 30 pages, no figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 052202 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3261
abstract: A family of logarithmic Sobolev inequalities on finite dimensional quantum state spaces is introduced. The framework of non-commutative $\bL_p$-spaces is reviewed and the relationship between quantum logarithmic Sobolev inequalities and the hypercontractivity of quantum semigroups is discussed. This relationship is central for the derivation of lower bounds for the logarithmic Sobolev (LS) constants. Essential results for the family of inequalities are proved, and we show an upper bound to the generalized LS constant in terms of the spectral gap of the generator of the semigroup. These inequalities provide a framework for the derivation of improved bounds on the convergence time of quantum dynamical semigroups, when the LS constant and the spectral gap are of the same order. Convergence bounds on finite dimensional state spaces are particularly relevant for the field of quantum information theory. We provide a number of examples, where improved bounds on the mixing time of several semigroups are obtained; including the depolarizing semigroup and quantum expanders.

id: 1207.3276
title: Measurement entropy in Generalized Non-Signalling Theory cannot detect bipartite non-locality
authors: Josh Cadney, Noah Linden
comments: 14 pages, includes minor corrections from v1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3276
abstract: We consider entropy in Generalized Non-Signalling Theory (also known as box world) where the most common definition of entropy is the measurement entropy. In this setting, we completely characterize the set of allowed entropies for a bipartite state. We find that the only inequalities amongst these entropies are subadditivity and non-negativity. What is surprising is that non-locality does not play a role - in fact any bipartite entropy vector can be achieved by separable states of the theory. This is in stark contrast to the case of the von Neumann entropy in quantum theory, where only entangled states satisfy S(AB)<S(A).

id: 1207.3294
title: Recovering Entanglement by Local Operations
authors: A. D'Arrigo, R. Lo Franco, G. Benenti, E. Paladino, G. Falci
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 350 (2014) 211-224
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3294
abstract: We investigate the phenomenon of bipartite entanglement revivals under purely local operations in systems subject to local and independent classical noise sources. We explain this apparent paradox in the physical ensemble description of the system state by introducing the concept of "hidden" entanglement, which indicates the amount of entanglement that cannot be exploited due to the lack of classical information on the system. For this reason this part of entanglement can be recovered without the action of non-local operations or back-transfer process. For two noninteracting qubits under a low-frequency stochastic noise, we show that entanglement can be recovered by local pulses only. We also discuss how hidden entanglement may provide new insights about entanglement revivals in non-Markovian dynamics.

id: 1207.3307
title: Quantum Metrological Limits via a Variational Approach
authors: B. M. Escher, L. Davidovich, N. Zagury, R. L. de Matos Filho
comments: Published Version: 5 pages (including references), 1 figure, typos corrected, and text little bit improved
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 190404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3307
abstract: The minimum achievable statistical uncertainty in the estimation of physical parameters is determined by the quantum Fisher information. Its computation for noisy systems is still a challenging problem. Using a variational approach, we present an equation for obtaining the quantum Fisher information, which has an explicit dependence on the mathematical description of the noise. This method is applied to obtain a useful analytical bound to the quantum precision in the estimation of phase-shifts under phase diffusion, which shows that the estimation uncertainty cannot be smaller than a noise-dependent constant.

id: 1207.3313
title: Mathematical modeling of quantum noise and the quality of hardware components of quantum computers
authors: Yu. I. Bogdanov, A. Yu. Chernyavskiy, A. S. Holevo, V. F. Luckichev, S. A. Nuyanzin, A. A. Orlikovsky
comments: 27 pages, 12 figures, report for the International Symposium "Quantum Informatics-2012" (QI-2012), Zvenigorod, Moscow region, October 01-05, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3313
abstract: In the present paper methods and algorithms of modeling quantum operations for quantum computer integrated circuits design are developed. We examine different ways of quantum operation descriptions, including operator-sums, unitary representations, Choi-Jamiolkowski state representations and the corresponding chi-matrices, as well as quantum system evolution operators. The results of modeling of practically important quantum gates: SQiSW (square root of i-SWAP gate), controlled-NOT (CNOT), and controlled Z-transform (CZ) subject to different decoherence mechanisms are presented. These mechanisms include analysis of depolarizing quantum noise and processes of amplitude and phase relaxation. Finally, we consider error correction of phase flip, and the tasks of creating and maintaining the entanglement, as well as its breaking for two- and multi-qubit realizations of quantum operations. Importance of the present analysis for the quality and efficiency of quantum information technologies in practical applications is discussed.

id: 1207.3314
title: Atomic nonclassicality quasiprobabilities
authors: T. Kiesel, W. Vogel, S. L. Christensen, J.-B. B¨¦guin, J. Appel, E. S. Polzik
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 042108 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3314
abstract: Although nonclassical quantum states are important both conceptually and as a resource for quantum technology, it is often difficult to test whether a given quantum system displays nonclassicality. A simple method to certify nonclassicality is introduced, based on easily accessible collective atomic quadrature measurements, without the need of full state tomography. The statistics is analyzed beyond the ground-state noise level, by direct sampling of a regularized atomic quadrature quasiprobability. Nonclassicality of a squeezed ensemble of 2x10^5 Cesium atoms is demonstrated, with a significance of up to 23 standard deviations.

id: 1207.3324
title: Spin and Pseudospin symmetries in the Dirac equation with central Coulomb potentials
authors: A. S. de Castro, P. Alberto
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, uses revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3324
abstract: We analyze in detail the analytical solutions of the Dirac equation with scalar S and vector V Coulomb radial potentials near the limit of spin and pseudospin symmetries, i.e., when those potentials have the same magnitude and either the same sign or opposite signs, respectively. By performing an expansion of the relevant coefficients we also assess the perturbative nature of both symmetries and their relations the (pseudo)spin-orbit coupling. The former analysis is made for both positive and negative energy solutions and we reproduce the relations between spin and pseudospin symmetries found before for nuclear mean-field potentials. We discuss the node structure of the radial functions and the quantum numbers of the solutions when there is spin or pseudospin symmetry, which we find to be similar to the well-known solutions of hydrogenic atoms.

id: 1207.3331
title: Resolving Spin-Orbit and Hyperfine Mediated Electric Dipole Spin Resonance in a Quantum Dot
authors: M. Shafiei, K. C. Nowack, C. Reichl, W. Wegscheider, L. M. K. Vandersypen
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 107601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3331
abstract: We investigate the electric manipulation of a single electron spin in a single gate-defined quantum dot. We observe that so-far neglected differences between the hyperfine and spin-orbit mediated electric dipole spin resonance conditions have important consequences at high magnetic fields. In experiments using adiabatic rapid passage to invert the electron spin, we observe an unusually wide and asymmetric response as a function of magnetic field. Simulations support the interpretation of the lineshape in terms of four different resonance conditions. These findings may lead to isotope-selective control of dynamic nuclear polarization in quantum dots.

id: 1207.3337
title: Bayes' rule, generalized discord, and nonextensive thermodynamics
authors: A. C. S. Costa, R. M. Angelo
comments: 5+2 pages, 1 figure, appendix added, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032109 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3337
abstract: Generalized measures of quantum correlations are derived by taking Bayes' rule as the only fundamental principle. The resulting quantifiers satisfy several desirable conditions for a measure of quantum correlations and are shown to admit operational interpretation in terms of the difference in efficiency of quantum and classical demons in allowing for the extraction of generalized work from a heat bath. The link with discord is established by adopting the $q$ entropy as entropic principle. This allows us to reproduce, within a one-parameter formalism, both the entropic and the geometric measures of discord and physically distinguish them within the context of the nonextensive thermodynamics. Besides offering a unified view of several measures of correlations in terms of the Bayesian principle and its connection with thermodynamics, our approach unveils a bridge to the nonextensive statistical mechanics.

id: 1207.3338
title: Genuine multipartite system-environment correlations in decoherent dynamics
authors: Jonas Maziero, Fabio M. Zimmer
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, published version, one reference updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042121 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3338
abstract: We propose relative entropy-based quantifiers for genuine multipartite total, quantum, and classical correlations. These correlation measures are applied to investigate the generation of genuine multiparticle correlations in decoherent dynamics induced by the interaction of two qubits with local- independent environments. We consider amplitude- and phase-damping channels and compare their capabilities to spread information through the creation of many-body correlations. We identify changes in behavior for the genuine four- and three-partite total correlations and show that, contrary to amplitude environments, phase-noise channels transform the bipartite correlation initially shared between the qubits into genuine multiparticle system-environment correlations.

id: 1207.3379
title: Quantum Non-localities and Correlation-Measurement-Induced Berry Phases for Spin-Singlet States
authors: Zhigang Song, J.-Q. Liang, L.-F. Wei
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3379
abstract: We in this Letter derive analytic formulas of Bell correlations in terms of quantum probability statistics under the assumption of measuring outcome-independence. For a spin-1/2 singlet state we find analytically that the violations of Bell-type inequalities are really related to the quantum non-local correlations. However, the Bell and Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequalities are always satisfied for the spin-1 singlet states. More generally the quantum non-locality does not lead to the violation of Bell and CHSH inequalities for the integer-spin singlet since the non-local interference effects cancel each other by the quantum statistical-average. Such a cancellation no longer exists for the half-integer spin singlets due to the nontrivial Berry phase, and thus the relevant Bell-type inequalities can be violated. Specifically, our generic observations can be experimentally tested with the entangled photon-pairs. Our arguments are based on the spin-singlet states, but could be generalized to other bipartite quantum states.

id: 1207.3501
title: Recursive quantum detector tomography
authors: L. Zhang, A. Datta, H. B. Coldenstrodt-Ronge, X.-M. Jin, J. Eisert, M. B. Plenio, I. A. Walmsley
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures. Minor changes
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 115005 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3501
abstract: Conventional tomographic techniques are becoming increasingly infeasible for reconstructing the operators of quantum devices of growing sophistication. We describe a novel tomographic procedure using coherent states which begins by reconstructing the diagonals of the operator, and then each successive off-diagonal in a recursive manner. Each recursion is considerably more efficient than reconstructing the operator in its entirety, and each successive recursion involves fewer parameters. We apply our technique to reconstruct the positive-operator-valued measure (POVM) corresponding to a recently developed coherent optical detector with phase sensitivity and number resolution. We discuss the effect of various parameters on the reconstruction accuracy. The results show the efficiency of the method and its robustness to experimental noise.

id: 1207.3557
title: Quantum discord and its asymptotic behaviors in a time-dependent XY spin chain
authors: Jian Zhang, Bin Shao, Lian-Ao Wu, Jian Zou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3557
abstract: We study the dynamics and the asymptotic behaviors of quantum discord in a one-dimensional XY model coupled through time-dependent nearest-neighbor interactions and in the presence of a time-dependent magnetic field. We find that the time evolution of the nearest-neighbor quantum discord in this system shows non-ergodic behaviors but is asymptotic to its steady value at the long-time limit. The zero-temperature asymptotic behaviors of quantum discord is only determined by the ratio between the coupling parameter and magnetic field, whereas the finite-temperature asymptotic behaviors determined by both of them. These asymptotic behaviors are sensitive not only to the initial values of the coupling parameter and magnetic field, but also to the final values. It is interesting to note that quantum discords are more robust than entanglement against the effect of temperature. We also find particular parameter regimes, where the nearest-neighbor quantum discord is enhanced significantly.

id: 1207.3609
title: Analysis of Elliptically Polarized Maximally Entangled States for Bell Inequality Tests
authors: Anthony Martin, Jeanloup Smirr, Florian Kaiser, Eleni Diamanti, Amandine Issautier, Olivier Alibart, Robert Frey, Isabelle Zaquine, S¨¦bastien Tanzilli
comments: 8 pages
journal: Laser Physics 22, 6 (2012) 1105-1112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3609
abstract: When elliptically polarized maximally entangled states are considered, i.e., states having a non random phase factor between the two bipartite polarization components, the standard settings used for optimal violation of Bell inequalities are no longer adapted. One way to retrieve the maximal amount of violation is to compensate for this phase while keeping the standard Bell inequality analysis settings. We propose in this paper a general theoretical approach that allows determining and adjusting the phase of elliptically polarized maximally entangled states in order to optimize the violation of Bell inequalities. The formalism is also applied to several suggested experimental phase compensation schemes. In order to emphasize the simplicity and relevance of our approach, we also describe an experimental implementation using a standard Soleil-Babinet phase compensator. This device is employed to correct the phase that appears in the maximally entangled state generated from a type-II nonlinear photon-pair source after the photons are created and distributed over fiber channels.

id: 1207.3614
title: N-dimensional alternate coined quantum walks from a dispersion relation perspective
authors: Eugenio Rold¨¢n, Carlo Di Franco, Fernando Silva, Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022336 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3614
abstract: We propose an alternative definition of an N-dimensional coined quantum walk by generalizing a recent proposal [Di Franco et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 080502 (2011)]. This N-dimensional alternate quantum walk, AQW_N, in contrast with the standard definition of the N-dimensional quantum walk, QW_N, requires only a coin-qubit. We discuss the quantum diffusion properties of AQW_2 and AQW_3 by analyzing their dispersion relations that reveal, in particular, the existence of diabolical points. This allows us to highlight interesting similarities with other well known physical phenomena. We also demonstrate that AQW_3 generates genuine multipartite entanglement. Finally we discuss the implementability of AQW_N.

id: 1207.3631
title: Quantum Dynamics in a Time-dependent Hard-Wall Spherical Trap
authors: S. V. Mousavi
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Accepted by Europhys. Lett
journal: EPL, 99 (2012) 30002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3631
abstract: Exact solution of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation is given for a particle inside a hard sphere whose wall is moving with a constant velocity. Numerical computations are presented for both contracting and expanding spheres. The propagator is constructed and compared with the propagator of a particle in an infinite square well with one wall in uniform motion.

id: 1207.3666
title: Condition for macroscopic realism beyond the Leggett-Garg inequalities
authors: Johannes Kofler, Caslav Brukner
comments: 6 pages, 1 table, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052115 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3666
abstract: In 1985, Leggett and Garg put forward the concept of macroscopic realism (macrorealism) and, in analogy to Bell's theorem, derived a necessary condition in terms of inequalities, which are now known as the Leggett-Garg inequalities. In this paper, we discuss another necessary condition called no-signaling in time. It solely bases on comparing the probability distribution for a macrovariable at some time for the cases where previously a measurement has or has not been performed. Although the concept is analogous to the no-signaling condition in the case of Bell tests, it can be violated according to quantum mechanical predictions even in situations where no violation of Leggett-Garg inequalities is possible.

id: 1207.3689
title: Quantum properties and dynamics of X states
authors: Nicol¨¢s Quesada, Asma Al-Qasimi, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3689
abstract: X states are a broad class of two-qubit density matrices that generalize many states of interest in the literature. In this work, we give a comprehensive account of various quantum properties of these states, such as entanglement, negativity, quantum discord and other related quantities. Moreover, we discuss the transformations that preserve their structure both in terms of continuous time evolution and discrete quantum processes.

id: 1207.3690
title: Strong coupling of two quantum emitters to a single light mode: the dissipative Tavis-Cummings ladder
authors: Nicol¨¢s Quesada
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3690
abstract: A criterion for strong coupling between two quantum emitters and a single resonant light mode in a cavity is presented. The criterion takes into account the escape of cavity photons and the spontaneous emission of the emitters, which are modeled as two level systems. By using such criterion, the dissipative Tavis-Cummings ladder of states is constructed, and it is shown that the inclusion of one more emitter with respect to the Jaynes-Cummings (single emitter) case increases the effective parameter region in which $n^{\text{th}}$ order Rabi splitting is observed.

id: 1207.3700
title: Role of correlations in the thermalization of quantum systems
authors: A. Smirne, E.-M. Laine, H.-P. Breuer, J. Piilo, B. Vacchini
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 113034 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3700
abstract: We investigate the equilibration and thermalization properties of quantum systems interacting with a finite dimensional environment. By exploiting the concept of time averaged states, we introduce a completely positive map which allows to describe in a quantitative way the dependence of the equilibrium state on the initial condition. Our results show that the thermalization of quantum systems is favored if the dynamics induces small system-environment correlations, as well as small changes in the environment, as measured by the trace distance.

id: 1207.3737
title: Simulating Symmetric Time Evolution With Local Operations
authors: Borzu Toloui, Gilad Gour
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures, Comments are Welcome
journal: New Journal of Physics 14 (2012) 123026
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3737
abstract: In closed systems, dynamical symmetries lead to conservation laws. However, conservation laws are not applicable to open systems that undergo irreversible transformations. More general selection rules are needed to determine whether, given two states, the transition from one state to the other is possible. The usual approach to the problem of finding such rules relies heavily on group theory and involves a detailed study of the structure of the respective symmetry group. We approach the problem in a completely new way by using entanglement to investigate the asymmetry properties of quantum states. To this end, we embed the space state of the system in a tensor product Hilbert space, whereby symmetric transformations between two states are replaced with local operations on their bipartite images.The embedding enables us to use the well-studied theory of entanglement to investigate the consequences of dynamic symmetries. Moreover, under reversible transformations, the entanglement of the bipartite image states becomes a conserved quantity. These entanglement-based conserved quantities are new and different from the conserved quantities based on expectation values of the Hamiltonian symmetry generators. Our method is not group-specific and applies to general symmetries associated with any semi-simple Lie group.

id: 1207.3766
title: Compressed sensing for multidimensional electronic spectroscopy experiments
authors: J. N. Sanders, S. Mostame, S. K. Saikin, X. Andrade, J. R. Widom, A. H. Marcus, A. Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3766
abstract: Compressed sensing is a processing method that significantly reduces the number of measurements needed to accurately resolve signals in many fields of science and engineering. We develop a two-dimensional (2D) variant of compressed sensing for multidimensional electronic spectroscopy and apply it to experimental data. For the model system of atomic rubidium vapor, we find that compressed sensing provides significantly better resolution of 2D spectra than a conventional discrete Fourier transform from the same experimental data. We believe that by combining powerful resolution with ease of use, compressed sensing can be a powerful tool for the analysis and interpretation of ultrafast spectroscopy data.

id: 1207.3788
title: Thermal Casimir-Polder interaction of different atoms with graphene
authors: M. Chaichian, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, A. Tureanu
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, v.86, N1, 012515-(1-9) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3788
abstract: The thermal correction to the energy of Casimir-Polder interaction of atoms with a suspended graphene membrane described by the Dirac model is investigated. We show that a major impact on the thermal correction is made by the size of the gap in the energy spectrum of graphene quasiparticles. Specifically, if the temperature is much smaller than the gap parameter (alternatively, larger or of the order of the gap parameter), the thermal correction is shown to be relatively small (alternatively, large). We have calculated the free energy of the thermal Casimir-Polder interaction of atoms of He, Na, Rb, and Cs with graphene described by both the hydrodynamic and Dirac models. It is shown that in exact computations using the Dirac model, one should use the polarization operator at nonzero temperature. The computational results for the Casimir-Polder free energy obtained in the framework of hydrodynamic model of graphene are several times larger than in the Dirac model within the separation region below 2$\mu$m. We conclude that the theoretical predictions following from the two models can be reliably discriminated in experiments on quantum reflection of different atoms on graphene.

id: 1207.3821
title: $T_1$-Echo Sequence - Protecting the state of a qubit in the presence of coherent interaction
authors: Clemens M¨¹ller, Alexander Shnirman, Martin Weides
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, as published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032335 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3821
abstract: We propose a sequence of pulses intended to preserve the state of a qubit in the presence of strong, coherent coupling to another quantum system. The sequence can be understood as a generalized SWAP and works in formal analogy to the well-known spin echo. Since the resulting effective decoherence rate of the qubits state is strongly influenced by the additional system, this sequence might serve to protect its quantum state as well as negating the effects of the coherent coupling. A possible area of application are large scale quantum computing architectures, where spectral crowding of the resources might necessitate a method to mitigate residual couplings.

id: 1207.3849
title: When is a pure state of three qubits determined by its single-particle reduced density matrices?
authors: Adam Sawicki, Michael Walter, Marek Ku?
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 46, 055304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3849
abstract: Using techniques from symplectic geometry, we prove that a pure state of three qubits is up to local unitaries uniquely determined by its one-particle reduced density matrices exactly when their ordered spectra belong to the boundary of the, so called, Kirwan polytope. Otherwise, the states with given reduced density matrices are parameterized, up to local unitary equivalence, by two real variables. Given inevitable experimental imprecisions, this means that already for three qubits a pure quantum state can never be reconstructed from single-particle tomography. We moreover show that knowledge of the reduced density matrices is always sufficient if one is given the additional promise that the quantum state is not convertible to the Greenberger--Horne--Zeilinger (GHZ) state by stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC), and discuss generalizations of our results to an arbitary number of qubits.

id: 1207.3854
title: Quantum dynamics in a time-dependent cylindrical trap
authors: S. V. Mousavi
comments: Accepted by Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3854
abstract: Solutions to the Schr\"{o}dinger equation are examined for a particle inside a cylindrical trap of a circular time-dependent cross-section. Analytical expressions for energy and momentum expectation values are derived with respect to the exact solutions; and the adiabatic and sudden change of the boundary are discussed. The density profile as a function of time in a given observation point, resembles the diffraction-in-time pattern observed in a suddenly released particle but with an enhanced fringe visibility. Numerical computations are presented for both contracting and expanding boxes.

id: 1207.3881
title: Coupled quantum oscillators within independent quantum reservoirs
authors: Illarion Dorofeyev
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Canadian Journal of Physics, 2013,91(7) pp.537-541
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3881
abstract: System of the quantum Langevin equations for two quantum coupling oscillators within independent heat baths of quantum oscillators are obtained using a model Hamiltonian and corresponding Heisenberg equations of motion. Expressions for mean energy of coupled oscillators and their mean energy of interaction are derived and analyzed. Nonmonotonic dependence of the interaction energy versus a coupling constant is demonstrated and explained. Nontrivial dependence of the quantities as a consequence of the difference in temperatures of heat baths is shown.

id: 1207.3898
title: Tunneling with Tamm-Dancoff method
authors: Zbigniew Ambrozinski
comments: Master thesis, Jagiellonian University in Krakow, Poland; advisor: Prof. J. Wosiek; 65 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3898
abstract: The tunneling effect is the most popular phenomenon of quantum physics and is present in modern physical theories. Still, the most important features of this effect are already present in toy models - low dimensional quantum mechanics with high potential barriers. Even these simple systems cannot be solved analytically and approximations have to be made. Tunneling is closely related to splitting of the ground state energy which is degenerate in the classical limit. In this thesis we use two methods to estimate the energy splitting in one dimensional quantum mechanics. In semi-classical approximation the splitting is calculated in the weak coupling limit. The other approach, Tamm-Dancoff method gives very precise numerical results for finite coupling. Comparing these two approaches we are able to confirm results of the semi-classical approximation and determine range of its applicability. Several potentials are considered: anharmonic double well, cosine potential and cosine potential in periodic space with finite number of minima. We also address a non-generic problem of anharmonic triple well potential.

id: 1207.3911
title: On Dimension Bounds for Auxiliary Quantum Systems
authors: Salman Beigi, Amin Gohari
comments: 30 pages, title changed, structure significantly improved, results unchanged, to appear in IEEE TIT
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol 60, pp. 368-387, January 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3911
abstract: Expressions of several capacity regions in quantum information theory involve an optimization over auxiliary quantum registers. Evaluating such expressions requires bounds on the dimension of the Hilbert space of these auxiliary registers, for which no non-trivial technique is known; we lack a quantum analog of the Carath\'{e}odory theorem. In this paper, we develop a new non-Carath\'{e}odory-type tool for evaluating expressions involving a single quantum auxiliary register and several classical random variables. As we show, such expressions appear in problems of entanglement-assisted Gray-Wyner and entanglement-assisted channel simulation, where the question of whether entanglement helps in these settings is related to that of evaluating expressions with a single quantum auxiliary register. To evaluate such expressions, we argue that developing a quantum analog of the Carath\'{e}odory theorem requires a better understanding of a notion which we call ``quantum conditioning." We then proceed by proving a few results about quantum conditioning, one of which is that quantum conditioning is strictly richer than the usual classical conditioning.

id: 1207.3918
title: A classical appraisal of quantum definitions of non-Markovian dynamics
authors: Bassano Vacchini
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures; to appear in J. Phys. B, Special Issue on "Loss of coherence and memory effects in quantum dynamics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3918
abstract: We consider the issue of non-Markovianity of a quantum dynamics starting from a comparison with the classical definition of Markovian process. We point to the fact that two sufficient but not necessary signatures of non-Markovianity of a classical process find their natural quantum counterpart in recently introduced measures of quantum non-Markovianity. This behavior is analyzed in detail for quantum dynamics which can be built taking as input a class of classical processes.

id: 1207.3927
title: Decoupling Theorems
authors: Oleg Szehr
comments: 100 pages, Master thesis, ETH Zurich, January 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3927
abstract: Decoupling theorems have proven useful in various applications in the area of quantum information theory. This thesis builds upon preceding work by Fr\'{e}d\'{e}ric Dupuis [arXiv:1012.6044v1], where a general decoupling theorem is obtained and its implications for quantum coding theory are studied. At first we generalize this theorem to the case where the average is taken over an approximate unitary 2-design. The second part of this project tackles the question whether or not it is possible to decorrelate CQ-states with classical operations. We obtain results similar to the pivotal Leftover Hash Lemma. Finally we analyze the decoupling power of permutation operators in a fully quantum context and show a general procedure that yields decoupling theorems with permutations.

id: 1207.3942
title: Confidence and Backaction in the Quantum Filter Equation
authors: Wei Cui, Neill Lambert, Yukihiro Ota, Xin-You L¨¹, Z. -L. Xiang, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052320 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3942
abstract: We study the confidence and backaction of state reconstruction based on a continuous weak measurement and the quantum filter equation. As a physical example we use the traditional model of a double quantum dot being continuously monitored by a quantum point contact. We examine the confidence of the estimate of a state constructed from the measurement record, and the effect of backaction of that measurement on that state. Finally, in the case of general measurements we show that using the relative entropy as a measure of confidence allows us to define the lower bound on the confidence as a type of quantum discord.

id: 1207.3986
title: Persistency of entanglement and nonlocality in multipartite quantum systems
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Tamas Vertesi
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. Minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042113 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3986
abstract: The behaviour under particle loss of entanglement and nonlocality is investigated in multipartite quantum systems. In particular, we define a notion of persistency of nonlocality, which leads to device-independent tests of persistent entanglement. We investigate the persistency of various classes of multipartite quantum states, exhibiting a variety of different behaviours. A particular attention is devoted to states featuring maximal persistency. Finally we discuss a link between the symmetry of a state and its persistency, illustrating the fact that too much symmetry reduces the strength of correlations among subsystems. These ideas also lead to a device-independent estimation of the asymmetry of a quantum state.

id: 1207.4072
title: Optimally designed quantum transport across disordered networks
authors: Mattia Walschaers, Jorge Fernandez-de-Cossio Diaz, Roberto Mulet, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 7 pages (incl. 2 pages of suppl. mat.), 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 180601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4072
abstract: We establish a general mechanism for highly efficient quantum transport through finite, disordered 3D networks. It relies on the interplay of disorder with centro-symmetry and a dominant doublet spectral structure, and can be controlled by proper tuning of only coarse-grained quantities. Photosynthetic light harvesting complexes are discussed as potential biological incarnations of this design principle.

id: 1207.4076
title: The Schr?dinger equation, the zero-point electromagnetic radiation and the photoelectric effect
authors: H. M. Fran?a, A. Kamimura, G. A. Barreto
comments: 20 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4076
abstract: A Schr\"odinger type equation for a mathematical probability amplitude {\psi}(x,t), is derived from the generalized phase space Liouville equation valid for the motion of a microscopic particle, with mass M, moving in a potential V(x). The particle phase space probability density is denoted W(x,p,t) and the entire system is immersed in the "vacuum" zero-point electromagnetic radiation . We show that the generalized Liouville equation is reduced to a non-quantized Liouville equation in the equilibrium limit where the small radiative corrections cancel each other approximately. Our derivation will be based on a simple Fourier transform of the non-quantized phase space probability distribution W(x,p,t). For convenience, we introduce in this Fourier transform an auxiliary constant {\alpha}, with dimension of action, and an auxiliary coordinate denoted by y. We shall prove that {\alpha} is equal to the Planck's constant present in the momentum operator of the Schr\"odinger equation. Moreover, we shall show that this momentum operator is deeply related with the ubiquitous zero-point electromagnetic radiation. It is also important to say that we do not assume that the mathematical amplitude {\psi}(x,t) is a de Broglie matter-wave, in other words, the wave-particle duality hypothesis is not used within our work. The implications of our study for the standard interpretation of the photoelectric effect is discussed by considering the main characteristics of the phenomenon. We also mention, briefly, the effects of the zero-point radiation in the tunnelling phenomenon and in the Compton's effect.

id: 1207.4087
title: Implementation of a spatial two-dimensional quantum random walk with tunable decoherence
authors: Ji?¨ª Svozil¨ªk, Roberto de Jes¨²s Le¨®n-Montiel, Juan P. Torres
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052327 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4087
abstract: We put forward a new, versatile and highly-scalable experimental setup for the realization of discrete two-dimensional quantum random walks with a single-qubit coin and tunable degree of decoherence. The proposed scheme makes use of a small number of simple optical components arranged in a multi-path Mach-Zehnder-like configuration, where a weak coherent state with average photon number of 1 is injected. Environmental effects (decoherence) are generated by a spatial light modulator, which introduces pure dephasing in the transverse spatial plane, perpendicular to the direction of propagation of the light beam. By controlling the characteristics of this dephasing, one can explore a great variety of scenarios of quantum random walks: pure quantum evolution (ballistic spread), fast fluctuating environment leading to a diffusive classical random walk, and static disorder resulting in the observation of Anderson localization.

id: 1207.4095
title: Multipartite Quantum Correlations in Open Quantum Systems
authors: Zhi-Hao Ma, Zhi-Hua Chen, Felipe F. Fanchini
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 043023 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4095
abstract: In this paper we present a measure of quantum correlation for a multipartite system, defined as the sum of the correlations for all possible partitions. Our measure can be defined for quantum discord (QD), geometric quantum discord (GQD), or even by the entanglement of formation (EOF). For tripartite pure states, we show that the multipartite measure for the QD and the EOF are equivalent, which gives a way to compare the distribution and the robustness of these correlations in open quantum systems. We study dissipative dynamics for two distinct families of entanglement: a W state and a GHZ state. We show that, while for the W state the QD is more robust than the entanglement, for the GHZ state this is not true. It turns out that the initial genuine multipartite entanglement present in the GHZ state makes the EOF more robust than the QD.

id: 1207.4183
title: Scalar Casimir effect between two concentric spheres
authors: Mustafa Ozcan
comments: 14 pages
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A 27, 1250082 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4183
abstract: The Casimir effect giving rise to an attractive force between the closely spaced two concentric spheres that confine the massless scalar field is calculated by using a direct mode summation with contour integration in the complex plane of eigenfrequencies. We devoleped a new approach appropriate for the calculation of the Casimir energy for spherical boundary conditions. The Casimir energy for a massless scalar field between the closely spaced two concentric spheres coincides with the Casimir energy of the parallel plates for a massless scalar field in the limit when the dimensionless parameter {\eta}, ({\eta}=((a-b)/(\surd(ab))) where a (b) is inner (outer) radius of sphere), goes to zero. The efficiency of new approach is demonstrated by calculation of the Casimir energy for a massless scalar field between the closely spaced two concentric half spheres. PACS number(s): 03.70.+k, 12.20.DS, 11.10.Gh

id: 1207.4218
title: Bragg reflection waveguide as a source of wavelength-multiplexed polarization-entangled photon pairs
authors: Ji?¨ª Svozil¨ªk, Martin Hendrych, Juan P. Torres
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 20, 15015 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4218
abstract: We put forward a new highly efficient source of paired photons entangled in polarization with an ultra-large bandwidth. The photons are generated by means of a conveniently designed spontaneous parametric down-conversion process in a semiconductor type-II Bragg reflection waveguide. The proposed scheme aims at being a key element of an integrated source of polarization-entangled photon pairs highly suitable for its use in a multi-user quantum-key-distribution system.

id: 1207.4226
title: Two-photon interference using background-free quantum frequency conversion of single photons from a semiconductor quantum dot
authors: Serkan Ates, Imad Agha, Angelo Gulinatti, Ivan Rech, Matthew T. Rakher, Antonio Badolato, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: Supercedes arXiv:1205.2218
journal: Physical Review Letters, 109, 147405 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4226
abstract: We show that quantum frequency conversion (QFC) can overcome the spectral distinguishability common to inhomogeneously broadened solid-state quantum emitters. QFC is implemented by combining single photons from an InAs quantum dot (QD) at 980 nm with a 1550 nm pump laser in a periodically-poled lithium niobate (PPLN) waveguide to generate photons at 600 nm with a signal-to-background ratio exceeding 100:1. Photon correlation and two-photon interference measurements confirm that both the single photon character and wavepacket interference of individual QD states are preserved during frequency conversion. Finally, we convert two spectrally separate QD transitions to the same wavelength in a single PPLN waveguide and show that the resulting field exhibits non-classical two-photon interference.

id: 1207.4256
title: Dynamics and thermodynamics of linear quantum open systems
authors: Esteban A. Martinez, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: 4 pages of main text, 6 pages of supplementary material, 1 figure; substantially modified, detailed derivations presented in the supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4256
abstract: We analyze the behavior of a network of quantum oscillators coupled with a number of external environments. We show that the dynamics is such that the quantum state of the network always obeys a local master equation with a simple analytical solution. We use this to study the emergence of thermodynamical laws in the stationary regime, achieved for sufficiently long times if the environments are dissipative. We show that the validity of the second law implies the impossibility of building a quantum refrigerator without moving parts (therefore, a quantum absorption refrigerators requires non-linearity as an crucial ingredient, as recently proposed by Kosloff and others cite{Kosloff1,Kosloff2}). We also show that the third law imposes strong constraints on the low frequency behavior of the environmental spectral densities.

id: 1207.4275
title: Localized detection of quantum entanglement through the event horizon
authors: Andrzej Dragan, Jason Doukas, Eduardo Martin-Martinez
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052326 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4275
abstract: We present a completely localized solution to the problem of entanglement degradation in non-inertial frames. A two mode squeezed state is considered from the viewpoint of two observers, Alice (inertial) and Rob (accelerated), and a model of localized projective detection is used to study the amount of entanglement that they are able to extract from the initial state. The Unruh vacuum noise plays only a minor role in the degradation process. The dominant source of degradation is a mode mismatch between the mode of the squeezed state Rob observes and the mode he is able to detect from his accelerated frame. Leakage of the initial mode through Rob's horizon places a limit on his ability to fully measure the state, leading to an inevitable degradation of entanglement that even in principle cannot be corrected by changing the hardware design of his detector.

id: 1207.4304
title: Hidden Quantum Markov Models with one qubit
authors: Ben O`Neill, Tom M. Barlow, Dominik Safranek, Almut Beige
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, Proceedings for the Interdisciplinary Symposium on Complex Systems in Kos, September 2012
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1479, 667 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4304
abstract: Hidden Markov Models (HMMs) have become very popular as a computational tool for the analysis of sequential data. They are memoryless machines which transition from one internal state to another, while producing symbols. These symbols constitute the output of the machine and form an infinite time series. Analogously, Hidden Quantum Markov Models (HQMM) produce an infinite time series, while progressing from one quantum state to another through stochastic quantum operations. Here we compare 1-bit HMMs and 1-qubit HQMMs and show that the latter can produce stronger correlations, although both machines are, in principle, comparable in resources.

id: 1207.4370
title: The balance of quantum correlations for a class of feasible tripartite continuous variable states
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: Special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems" edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral, published version
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1245024 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4370
abstract: We address the balance of quantum correlations for continuous variable (CV) states. In particular, we consider a class of feasible tripartite CV pure states and explicitly prove two Koashi-Winter-like conservation laws involving Gaussian entanglement of formation, Gaussian quantum discord and sub-system Von Neumann entropies. We also address the class of tripartite CV mixed states resulting from the propagation in a noisy environment, and discuss how the previous equalities evolve into inequalities.

id: 1207.4395
title: PT-symmetric quantum Liouvillian dynamics
authors: Tomaz Prosen
comments: Note [18] added with respect to a published version, explaining the symmetry of the matrix V [eq. (14)]
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 090404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4395
abstract: We discuss a combination of unitary and anti-unitary symmetry of quantum Liouvillian dynamics, in the context of open quantum systems, which implies a D2 symmetry of the complex Liovillean spectrum. For sufficiently weak system-bath coupling it implies a uniform decay rate for all coherences, i.e. off-diagonal elements of the system's density matrix taken in the eigenbasis of the Hamiltonian. As an example we discuss symmetrically boundary driven open XXZ spin 1/2 chains.

id: 1207.4407
title: Interaction of electron vortices and optical vortices with matter and processes of orbital angular momentum exchange
authors: S. M. Lloyd, M. Babiker, J. Yuan
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4407
abstract: The quantum processes involved in the interaction of matter with, separately, an electron vortex(EV) and an optical vortex (OV) are described, with matter modelled in terms of a neutral two particle atomic system, allowing for both the internal (electronic-type) motion and the gross (center of mass-type) motion of matter to be taken into account. The coupling of the atomic system to the EV is dominated by Coulomb forces, while that of the OV is taken in the $\mathbf{p}\cdot\mathbf{A}$ canonical form which couples $\mathbf{A}$, the transverse vector potential of the optical vortex, to the linear momenta of the two-particle system. An analysis of the dipole active transition matrix element is carried out in each case. The electron vortex is found to be capable of exchanging its orbital angular momentum (OAM) with both the electronic and the center of mass motions of the atomic system in an electric dipole transition. In contrast, for electric dipole transitions the optical vortex is found to be capable of exchanging OAM only with the center of mass. The predictions are discussed with reference to recent experiments on electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) using EVs traversing magnetised iron thin film samples and those involving OVs interacting with chiral molecules.

id: 1207.4429
title: Casimir Force and In Situ Surface Potential Measurements on Nanomembranes
authors: Daniel Garcia-Sanchez, King Yan Fong, Harish Bhaskaran, Steve Lamoreaux, Hong X. Tang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 027202 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4429
abstract: We present Casimir force measurements in a sphere-plate configuration that consists of a high quality nanomembrane resonator and a millimeter sized gold coated sphere. The nanomembrane is fabricated from stoichiometric silicon nitride metallized with gold. A Kelvin probe method is used in situ to image the surface potentials to minimize the distance-dependent residual force. Resonance-enhanced frequency-domain measurements of the nanomembrane motion allow for very high resolution measurements of the Casimir force gradient (down to a force gradient sensitivity of 3 uN/m). Using this technique, the Casimir force in the range of 100 nm to 2 um is accurately measured. Experimental data thus obtained indicate that the device system in the measured range is best described with the Drude model.

id: 1207.4462
title: A Quantum Copy-Protection Scheme with Authentication
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi, Sandor Imre
comments: 24 pages, 19 figures, Journal-ref: Int. J. Internet Technology and Secured Transactions (IJITST, 2009), presented in part at IEEE ICITST-2009, IEEE 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4462
abstract: We propose a quantum copy-protection system which protects classical information in the form of non-orthogonal quantum states. The decryption of the stored information is not possible in the classical representation and the decryption mechanism of data qubits is realized by secret unitary rotations. We define an authentication method for the proposed copy-protection scheme and analyse the success probabilities of the authentication process. A possible experimental realization of the scheme is also presented.

id: 1207.4464
title: An Improvement in Quantum Fourier Transform
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi, Sandor Imre
comments: 30 pages, 10 figures, Journal-ref: Journal of Circuits, Systems, and Computers (JCSC), World Scientific, Print ISSN: 0218-1266, Online ISSN: 1793-6454; 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4464
abstract: Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) is one of the most useful techniques for analyzing data in linear algebra. SVD decomposes a rectangular real or complex matrix into two orthogonal matrices and one diagonal matrix. In this work we introduce a new approach to improve the preciseness of the standard Quantum Fourier Transform. The presented Quantum-SVD algorithm is based on the singular value decomposition mechanism. While the complexity of the proposed scheme is the same as the standard Quantum Fourier Transform, the precision of the Quantum-SVD approach is some orders higher. The Quantum-SVD approach also exploits the benefits of quantum searching.

id: 1207.4467
title: Information Geometric Security Analysis of Differential Phase Shift Quantum Key Distribution Protocol
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi, Sandor Imre
comments: 42 pages, 34 figures, Journal-ref: Security and Communication Networks (John Wiley & Sons, 2012), presented in part at the IEEE Int. Conference on Network and Service Security (IEEE N2S 2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4467
abstract: This paper analyzes the information-theoretical security of the Differential Phase Shift (DPS) Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) protocol, using efficient computational information geometric algorithms. The DPS QKD protocol was introduced for practical reasons, since the earlier QKD schemes were too complicated to implement in practice. The DPS QKD protocol can be an integrated part of current network security applications, hence it's practical implementation is much easier with the current optical devices and optical networks. The proposed algorithm could be a very valuable tool to answer the still open questions related to the security bounds of the DPS QKD protocol.

id: 1207.4491
title: Algorithmic Superactivation of Asymptotic Quantum Capacity of Zero-Capacity Quantum Channels
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi, Sandor Imre
comments: 35 pages, 17 figures, Journal-ref: Information Sciences (Elsevier, 2012), presented in part at Quantum Information Processing 2012 (QIP2012), v2: minor changes, v3: published version; Information Sciences, Elsevier, ISSN: 0020-0255; 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4491
abstract: The superactivation of zero-capacity quantum channels makes it possible to use two zero-capacity quantum channels with a positive joint capacity for their output. Currently, we have no theoretical background to describe all possible combinations of superactive zero-capacity channels; hence, there may be many other possible combinations. In practice, to discover such superactive zero-capacity channel-pairs, we must analyze an extremely large set of possible quantum states, channel models, and channel probabilities. There is still no extremely efficient algorithmic tool for this purpose. This paper shows an efficient algorithmical method of finding such combinations. Our method can be a very valuable tool for improving the results of fault-tolerant quantum computation and possible communication techniques over very noisy quantum channels.

id: 1207.4502
title: Pilot Quantum Error Correction for Global-Scale Quantum Communications
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi, Sandor Imre
comments: 50 pages, 2 tables, 17 figures, minor improvements. Journal-ref: IEEE Symposium on Quantum Computing and Computational Intelligence 2013 (IEEE QCCI 2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4502
abstract: Real global-scale quantum communications and quantum key distribution systems cannot be implemented by the current fiber and free-space links. These links have high attenuation, low polarization-preserving capability or extreme sensitivity to the environment. A potential solution to the problem is the space-earth quantum channels. These channels have no absorption since the signal states are propagated in empty space, however a small fraction of these channels is in the atmosphere, which causes slight depolarizing effect. Furthermore, the relative motion of the ground station and the satellite causes a rotation in the polarization of the quantum states. In the current approaches to compensate for these types of polarization errors, high computational costs and extra physical apparatuses are required. Here we introduce a novel approach which breaks with the traditional views of currently developed quantum-error correction schemes. The proposed quantum error-correction technique can be applied to fix the polarization errors which are critical in space-earth quantum communication systems. Moreover, the channel coding scheme provides capacity-achieving communication over slightly depolarizing space-earth channels.

id: 1207.4535
title: Comparing algorithms for graph isomorphism using discrete- and continuous-time quantum random walks
authors: Kenneth Rudinger, John King Gamble, Eric Bach, Mark Friesen, Robert Joynt, S. N. Coppersmith
comments: 10 pages, 0 figures
journal: J. Comut. Theor. Nanos. 10 (7), pp. 1653-1661 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4535
abstract: Berry and Wang [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 83}, 042317 (2011)] show numerically that a discrete-time quantum random walk of two noninteracting particles is able to distinguish some non-isomorphic strongly regular graphs from the same family. Here we analytically demonstrate how it is possible for these walks to distinguish such graphs, while continuous-time quantum walks of two noninteracting particles cannot. We show analytically and numerically that even single-particle discrete-time quantum random walks can distinguish some strongly regular graphs, though not as many as two-particle noninteracting discrete-time walks. Additionally, we demonstrate how, given the same quantum random walk, subtle differences in the graph certificate construction algorithm can nontrivially impact the walk's distinguishing power. We also show that no continuous-time walk of a fixed number of particles can distinguish all strongly regular graphs when used in conjunction with any of the graph certificates we consider. We extend this constraint to discrete-time walks of fixed numbers of noninteracting particles for one kind of graph certificate; it remains an open question as to whether or not this constraint applies to the other graph certificates we consider.

id: 1207.4537
title: Reduction from non-injective hidden shift problem to injective hidden shift problem
authors: Mirmojtaba Gharibi
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4537
abstract: We introduce a simple tool that can be used to reduce non-injective instances of the hidden shift problem over arbitrary group to injective instances over the same group. In particular, we show that the average-case non-injective hidden shift problem admit this reduction. We show similar results for (non-injective) hidden shift problem for bent functions. We generalize the notion of influence and show how it relates to applicability of this tool for doing reductions. In particular, these results can be used to simplify the main results by Gavinsky, Roetteler, and Roland about the hidden shift problem for the Boolean-valued functions and bent functions, and also to generalize their results to non-Boolean domains (thereby answering an open question that they pose).

id: 1207.4575
title: Entanglement fidelity of the standard quantum teleportation channel
authors: Gang Li, Ming-Yong Ye, Xiu-Min Lin
comments: 3 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377, 1531-1533(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4575
abstract: We consider the standard quantum teleportation protocol where a general bipartite state is used as entanglement resource. We use the entanglement fidelity to describe how well the standard quantum teleportation channel transmits quantum entanglement and give a simple expression for the entanglement fidelity when it is averaged on all input states.

id: 1207.4612
title: Scalar Casimir effect between two concentric D-dimensional spheres
authors: Mustafa ?zcan
comments: 14 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1207.4183
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A 27 (18), 1250094 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4612
abstract: The Casimir energy for a massless scalar field between the closely spaced two concentric D-dimensional (for D>3) spheres is calculated by using the mode summation with contour integration in the complex plane of eigenfrequencies and the generalized Abel-Plana formula for evenly spaced eigenfrequency at large argument. The sign of the Casimir energy between closely spaced two concentric D-dimensional spheres for a massless scalar field satisfying the Dirichlet boundary conditions is strictly negative. The Casimir energy between D-1 dimensional surfaces close to each other is regarded as interesting both by itself and as the key to describing of stability of the attractive Casimir force. PACS number(s): 03.70.+k, 11.10.Kk, 11.10.Gh, 03.65.Ge

id: 1207.4635
title: Real-time distance measurement immune from atmospheric parameters using optical frequency combs
authors: Pu Jian, Olivier Pinel, Claude Fabre, Brahim Lamine, Nicolas Treps
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4635
abstract: We propose a direct and real-time ranging scheme using an optical frequency combs, able to compensate optically for index of refraction variations due to atmospheric parameters. This scheme could be useful for applications requiring stringent precision over a long distance in air, a situation where dispersion becomes the main limitation. The key ingredient is the use of a mode-locked laser as a precise source for multi-wavelength interferometry in a homodyne detection scheme. By shaping temporally the local oscillator, one can directly access the desired parameter (distance) while being insensitive to fluctuations induced by parameters of the environment such as pressure, temperature, humidity and CO$_2$ content.

id: 1207.4805
title: Symmetry protection of measurement-based quantum computation in ground states
authors: Dominic V. Else, Stephen D. Bartlett, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 20 pages plus appendices, 11 figures, comments very welcome; v2 minor corrections and additional references; v3 published version with minor corrections
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 113016 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4805
abstract: The two-dimensional cluster state, a universal resource for measurement-based quantum computation, is also the gapped ground state of a short-ranged Hamiltonian. Here, we examine the effect of perturbations to this Hamiltonian. We prove that, provided the perturbation is sufficiently small and respects a certain symmetry, the perturbed ground state remains a universal resource. We do this by characterising the operation of an adaptive measurement protocol throughout a suitable symmetry-protected quantum phase, relying on generic properties of the phase rather than any analytic control over the ground state.

id: 1207.4877
title: Non-Hermitian quantum dynamics of a two-level system and models of dissipative environments
authors: Alessandro Sergi, Konstantin G. Zloshchastiev
comments: Updates: [v2] Added: mixed states and purification, connection between non-Hermitian and non-linear QM; [v3] Fixed found errors/typos; [v4] Updated references, some stylistic corrections; [v5] Final/published version
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27 (2013) 1350163
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4877
abstract: We consider a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian in order to effectively describe a two-level system coupled to a generic dissipative environment. The total Hamiltonian of the model is obtained by adding a general anti-Hermitian part, depending on four parameters, to the Hermitian Hamiltonian of a tunneling two-level system. The time evolution is formulated and derived in terms of the normalized density operator of the model, different types of decays are revealed and analyzed. In particular, the population difference and coherence are defined and calculated analytically. We have been able to mimic various physical situations with different properties, such as dephasing, vanishing population difference and purification.

id: 1207.4899
title: Strongly entangled light from planar microcavities
authors: D. Pagel, H. Fehske, J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, extended version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052313 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4899
abstract: The emission of entangled light from planar semiconductor microcavities is studied and the entanglement properties are analyzed and quantified. Phase-matching of the intra-cavity scattering dynamics for multiple pump beams or pulses, together with the coupling to external radiation, leads to the emission of a manifold of entangled photon pairs. A decomposition of the emitted photons into two parties leads to a strong entanglement of the resulting bipartite system. For the quantification of the entanglement, the Schmidt number of the system is determined by the construction of Schmidt number witnesses. It is analyzed to which extend the resources of the originally strongly entangled light field are diminished by dephasing in propagation channels.

id: 1207.4912
title: Proposal of a two-qubit quantum phase gate for quantum photonic integrated circuits
authors: Robert Johne, Andrea Fiore
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063815 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4912
abstract: We propose a protocol for two-qubit quantum phase gate based upon reflection of photon pulses from a quantum dot in a cavity. Depending on the state of the quantum dot the reflected photons acquire a conditional phase shift. The key ingredient is the ultrafast control of the quantum dot energies by electric fields, which allows for tuning the exciton and biexciton successively into resonance with the cavity mode. The complete dynamics of the gate are simulated revealing a fidelity of about 0.9. The proposed scheme uses position-coding and is therefore well suited to the implementation in an integrated photonic quantum processor.

id: 1207.4915
title: Spinons and Holons with Polarized Photons in a Nonlinear Waveguide
authors: Ming-Xia Huo, Dimitris G. Angelakis, Leong Chuan Kwek
comments: To appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 075027
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4915
abstract: We show that the spin-charge separation predicted for correlated fermions in one dimension, could be observed using polarized photons propagating in a nonlinear optical waveguide. Using coherent control techniques and employing a cold atom ensemble interacting with the photons, large nonlinearities in the single photon level can be achieved. We show that the latter can allow for the simulation of a strongly interacting gas, which is made of stationary dark-state polaritons of two species and then shown to form a Luttinger liquid of effective fermions for the right regime of interactions. The system can be tuned optically to the relevant regime where the spin-charge separation is expected to occur. The characteristic features of the separation as demonstrated in the different spin and charge densities and velocities can be efficiently detected via optical measurements of the emitted photons with current optical technologies.

id: 1207.4939
title: Quantum XOR Games
authors: Oded Regev, Thomas Vidick
comments: 43 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4939
abstract: We introduce quantum XOR games, a model of two-player one-round games that extends the model of XOR games by allowing the referee's questions to the players to be quantum states. We give examples showing that quantum XOR games exhibit a wide range of behaviors that are known not to exist for standard XOR games, such as cases in which the use of entanglement leads to an arbitrarily large advantage over the use of no entanglement. By invoking two deep extensions of Grothendieck's inequality, we present an efficient algorithm that gives a constant-factor approximation to the best performance players can obtain in a given game, both in case they have no shared entanglement and in case they share unlimited entanglement. As a byproduct of the algorithm we prove some additional interesting properties of quantum XOR games, such as the fact that sharing a maximally entangled state of arbitrary dimension gives only a small advantage over having no entanglement at all.

id: 1207.4974
title: Simulating the coupling of angular momenta in distant matter qubits
authors: C. Ammon, A. Maser, U. Schilling, T. Bastin, J. von Zanthier
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052308 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4974
abstract: We present a mathematical proof of the algorithm allowing to generate all - symmetric and non-symmetric - total angular momentum eigenstates in remote matter qubits by projective measurements, proposed in Maser et al. [Phys. Rev. A 79, 033833 (2009)]. By deriving a recursion formula for the algorithm we show that the generated states are equal to the total angular momentum eigenstates obtained via the usual quantum mechanical coupling of angular momenta. In this way we demonstrate that the algorithm is able to simulate the coupling of N spin-1/2 systems, and to implement the required Clebsch-Gordan coefficients, even though the particles never directly interact with each other.

id: 1207.5000
title: Transport properties of anyons in random topological environments
authors: V. Zatloukal, L. Lehman, S. Singh, J. K. Pachos, G. K. Brennen
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 134201 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5000
abstract: The quasi one-dimensional transport of Abelian and non-Abelian anyons is studied in the presence of a random topological background. In particular, we consider the quantum walk of an anyon that braids around islands of randomly filled static anyons of the same type. Two distinct behaviours are identified. We analytically demonstrate that all types of Abelian anyons localise purely due to the statistical phases induced by their random anyonic environment. In contrast, we numerically show that non-Abelian Ising anyons do not localise. This is due to their entanglement with the anyonic environment that effectively induces dephasing. Our study demonstrates that localisation properties strongly depend on non-local topological interactions and it provides a clear distinction in the transport properties of Abelian and non-Abelian statistics.

id: 1207.5008
title: Quantum Key Distribution based on Single Photon Bi-partite Correlation
authors: Kim Fook Lee, Yong Meng Sua, Harith B. Ahmad
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5008
abstract: We present a scheme for key distribution based on bi-partite correlation of single photons. Alice keeps an ancilla photon and sends a signal photon to Bob, where intrinsic bi-partite correlation of these photons is obtained through first order intensity correlation in their detectors. The key bits are distributed through sharing four bi-partite correlation functions and photon counting. The scheme consists of two parts; first, Alice prepares deterministic photon states and Bob measures the photon states based on his random choice on correlation functions. Second, Alice guesses Bob's choice of correlation functions and sets the key bits by sending out photon states. Bob verifies the key bits through the photon states regardless Alice made a right or wrong guess. We called this key distribution scheme as prepare-measure-guess-verify (PMGV) protocol. We discuss the protocol by using a highly attenuated laser light, and then point out the advantages of using a fiber based correlated photon-pair to achieve better performance in security, communication distance and success rate of key distribution.

id: 1207.5012
title: Witnessing non-classicality of a quantum oscillator state by coupling it to a qubit
authors: S. Agarwal, J. H. Eberly
comments: Figures have been updated and some new references are added
journal: Physical Review A 86 (2), 022341 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5012
abstract: We propose a new witness operation for the non-classical character of a harmonic oscillator state. The method does not require state reconstruction. For all harmonic oscillator states that are classical, a bound is established for the evolution of a qubit which is coupled to the oscillator. Any violation of the bound can be rigorously attributed to the non-classical character of the initial oscillator state.

id: 1207.5013
title: Wigner representation for polarization-momentum hyperentanglement generated in parametric down conversion, and its application to complete Bell-state measurement
authors: A. Casado, S. Guerra, J. Pl¨¢cido
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5013
abstract: We apply the Wigner function formalism to the study of two-photon polarization-momentum hyperentanglement generated in parametric down conversion. It is shown that the consideration of a higher number of degrees of freedom is directly related to the extraction of additional uncorrelated sets of zeropoint modes at the source. We present a general expression for the description of the quantum correlations corresponding to the sixteen Bell base states, in terms of four beams whose amplitudes are correlated through the stochastic properties of the zeropoint field. A detailed analysis of the two experiments on complete Bell-state measurement included in [Walborn et al., Phys. Rev. A 68, 042313 (2003)] is made, emphasizing the role of the zeropoint field. Finally, we investigate the relationship between the zeropoint inputs at the source and the analysers, and the limits on optimal Bell-state measurement.

id: 1207.5105
title: Discord and quantum computational resources
authors: Aharon Brodutch
comments: Closer to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022307 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5105
abstract: Discordant states appear in a large number of quantum phenomena and seem to be a good indicator of divergence from classicality. While there is evidence that they are essential for a quantum algorithm to have an advantage over a classical one, their precise role is unclear. We examine the role of discord in quantum algorithms using the paradigmatic framework of `restricted distributed quantum gates' and show that manipulating discordant states using local operations has an associated cost in terms of entanglement and communication resources. Changing discord reduces the total correlations and reversible operations on discordant states usually require non-local resources. Discord alone is, however, not enough to determine the need for entanglement. A more general type of similar quantities, which we call K-discord, is introduced as a further constraint on the kinds of operations that can be performed without entanglement resources.

id: 1207.5196
title: Optimal entanglement concentration for quantum dot and optical microcavities systems
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Lan Zhou, Lei Wang, Sheng-Mei Zhao
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5196
abstract: A recent paper [Chuan Wang, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{86}, 012323 (2012)] discussed an entanglement concentration protocol (ECP) for partially entangled electrons using a quantum dot and microcavity coupled system. In his paper, each two-electron spin system in a partially entangled state can be concentrated with the assistance of an ancillary quantum dot and a single photon. In this paper, we will present an optimal ECP for such entangled electrons with the help of only one single photon. Compared with the protocol of Wang, the most significant advantage is that during the whole ECP, the single photon only needs to pass through one microcavity which will increase the total success probability if the cavity is imperfect. The whole protocol can be repeated to get a higher success probability. With the feasible technology, this protocol may be useful in current long-distance quantum communications.

id: 1207.5230
title: Absorbers in the Transactional Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Jean-Sebastien Boisvert, Louis Marchildon
comments: Minor changes and clarifications. Forthcoming in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5230
abstract: The transactional interpretation of quantum mechanics, following the time-symmetric formulation of electrodynamics, uses retarded and advanced solutions of the Schrodinger equation and its complex conjugate to understand quantum phenomena by means of transactions. A transaction occurs between an emitter and a specific absorber when the emitter has received advanced waves from all possible absorbers. Advanced causation always raises the specter of paradoxes, and it must be addressed carefully. In particular, different devices involving contingent absorbers or various types of interaction-free measurements have been proposed as threatening the original version of the transactional interpretation. These proposals will be analyzed by examining in each case the configuration of absorbers and, in the special case of the so-called quantum liar experiment, by carefully following the development of retarded and advanced waves through the Mach-Zehnder interferometer. We will show that there is no need to resort to the hierarchy of transactions that some have proposed, and will argue that the transactional interpretation is consistent with the block-universe picture of time.

id: 1207.5235
title: Breakdown of adiabatic transfer of light in waveguides in the presence of absorption
authors: Eva-Maria Graefe, Alexei A. Mailybaev, Nimrod Moiseyev
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, revised and extended
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5235
abstract: In atomic physics, adiabatic evolution is often used to achieve a robust and efficient population transfer. Many adiabatic schemes have also been implemented in optical waveguide structures. Recently there has been increasing interests in the influence of decay and absorption, and their engineering applications. Here it is shown that even a small decay can significantly influence the dynamical behaviour of a system, above and beyond a mere change of the overall norm. In particular, a small decay can lead to a breakdown of adiabatic transfer schemes, even when both the spectrum and the eigenfunctions are only sightly modified. This is demonstrated for the generalization of a STIRAP scheme that has recently been implemented in optical waveguide structures. Here the question how an additional absorption in either the initial or the target waveguide influences the transfer property of the scheme is addressed. It is found that the scheme breaks down for small values of the absorption at a relatively sharp threshold, which can be estimated by simple analytical arguments.

id: 1207.5236
title: Is Entanglement Sufficient to Enable Quantum Speedup?
authors: Michael E. Cuffaro
comments: Only minor changes from last version. Comments and criticisms are welcome. This article has been superseded by arXiv:1310.0938
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5236
abstract: According to the Gottesman-Knill theorem, any quantum algorithm utilising operations chosen exclusively from a particular restricted set are efficiently simulable by a classical computer. Since some of these algorithms involve entangled states, it is commonly concluded that entanglement is insufficient to enable quantum speedup. As I explain, however, the operations belonging to this set are precisely those which will never yield a violation of the Bell inequalities. Thus it should be no surprise that entangled quantum states which only undergo operations in this set are efficiently simulable classically. What the Gottesman-Knill theorem shows us is that it is possible to use an entangled state to less than its full potential. Nevertheless, there is a meaningful sense in which entanglement is sufficient for quantum speedup: an entangled quantum state provides sufficient physical resources to enable quantum speedup, whether or not one elects to use these resources fully.

id: 1207.5239
title: Macroscopic Schr?dinger Cat Resistant to Particle Loss and Local Decoherence
authors: Utkarsh Mishra, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Revtex4-1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5239
abstract: The Schr\"odinger cat state plays a crucial role in quantum theory, and has important fundamental as well as technological implications, ranging from quantum measurement theory to quantum computers. The power of the potential implications of the cat state lies in the quantum coherence, as measured by the degree of entanglement, between its microscopic and macroscopic sectors. We show that in contrast to other cat states, it is possible to choose the states of the macroscopic sector in a way that the resulting cat state, which we term as the W-cat state, has quantum coherence that is resistant to the twin effects of environmental noise -- local decoherence on all the particles and loss of a finite fraction of its particles. The states of the macroscopic sector of the W-cat state are macroscopically distinct in terms of their violation of Bell inequality.

id: 1207.5242
title: Nonequilibrium Quantum Phase Transitions in the Ising Model
authors: V. M. Bastidas, C. Emary, G. Schaller, T. Brandes
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures. Published in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063627 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5242
abstract: We establish a set of nonequilibrium quantum phase transitions in the Ising model driven under monochromatic nonadiabatic modulation of the transverse field. We show that besides the Ising-like critical behavior, the system exhibits an anisotropic transition which is absent in equilibrium. The nonequilibrium quantum phases correspond to states which are synchronized with the external control in the long-time dynamics.

id: 1207.5257
title: Discrete Randomness in Discrete Time Quantum Walk: Study via Stochastic Averaging
authors: D. Ellinas, A. J. Bracken, I. Smyrnakis
comments: Reports on Mathematical Physics, to appear
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5257
abstract: The role of classical noise in quantum walks (QW) on integers is investigated in the form of discrete dichotomic random variable affecting its reshuffling matrix parametrized as a SU2)/U(1) coset element. Analysis in terms of quantum statistical moments and generating functions, derived by the completely positive trace preserving (CPTP) map governing evolution, reveals a pronounced eventual transition in walk's diffusion mode, from a quantum ballistic regime with rate O(t) to a classical diffusive regime with rate O(\surdt), when condition (strength of noise parameter)^{2}\times(number of steps)=1, is satisfied. The role of classical randomness is studied showing that the randomized QW, when treated on the stochastic average level by means of an appropriate CPTP averaging map, turns out to be equivalent to a novel quantized classical walk without randomness. This result emphasizes the dual role of quantization/randomization in the context of classical random walk.

id: 1207.5260
title: Asymptotic dynamics of the alternate degrees of freedom for a two-mode system: an analytically solvable model
authors: M. Arsenijevic, J. Jeknic-Dugic, M. Dugic
comments: 11 pages, no figures/tables
journal: Chin. Phys. B 22, (2013) 020302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5260
abstract: The composite systems can be non-uniquely decomposed into parts (subsystems). Not all decompositions (structures) of a composite system are equally physically relevant. In this paper we answer on theoretical ground why it may be so. We consider a pair of mutually un-coupled modes in the phase space representation that are subjected to the independent quantum amplitude damping channels. By investigating asymptotic dynamics of the degrees of freedom, we ?nd that the environment is responsible for the structures non-equivalence. Only one structure is distinguished by both locality of the environmental in uence on its subsystems and a classical-like description.

id: 1207.5276
title: Nanoscale magnetometry through quantum control of nitrogen-vacancy centres in rotationally diffusing nanodiamonds
authors: D. Maclaurin, L. T. Hall, A. M. Martin, L. C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 9 pages, with 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 013041 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5276
abstract: The confluence of quantum physics and biology is driving a new generation of quantum-based sensing and imaging technology capable of harnessing the power of quantum effects to provide tools to understand the fundamental processes of life. One of the most promising systems in this area is the nitrogen-vacancy centre in diamond - a natural spin qubit which remarkably has all the right attributes for nanoscale sensing in ambient biological conditions. Typically the nitrogen-vacancy qubits are fixed in tightly controlled/isolated experimental conditions. In this work quantum control principles of nitrogen-vacancy magnetometry are developed for a randomly diffusing diamond nanocrystal. We find that the accumulation of geometric phases, due to the rotation of the nanodiamond plays a crucial role in the application of a diffusing nanodiamond as a bio-label and magnetometer. Specifically, we show that a freely diffusing nanodiamond can offer real-time information about local magnetic fields and its own rotational behaviour, beyond continuous optically detected magnetic resonance monitoring, in parallel with operation as a fluorescent biomarker.

id: 1207.5305
title: Nonlocal signaling in the configuration space model of quantum-classical interactions
authors: Michael J. W. Hall, Marcel Reginatto, C. M. Savage
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 054101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5305
abstract: When interactions are turned off, the theory of interacting quantum and classical ensembles due to Hall and Reginatto is shown to suffer from a nonlocal signaling effect that is effectively action at a distance. This limits the possible applicability of the theory. In its present form, it is restricted to those situations in which interactions are always on, such as classical gravity interacting with quantized matter.

id: 1207.5351
title: Generation of maximally entangled states with sub-luminal Lorentz boost
authors: Veiko Palge, Jacob Dunningham
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 85, 042322 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5351
abstract: Recent work has studied entanglement between the spin and momentum components of a single spin-1/2 particle and showed that maximal entanglement is obtained only when boosts approach the speed of light. Here we extend the boost scenario to general geometries and show that, intriguingly, maximal entanglement can be achieved with boosts less than the speed of light. Boosts approaching the speed of light may even decrease entanglement. We also provide a geometric explanation for this behavior.

id: 1207.5354
title: Classical memoryless noise-induced maximally discordant mixed separable steady states
authors: Ferdi Altintas, Arzu Kurt, Resul Eryigit
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 377 (2012) pp. 53-59
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5354
abstract: We have investigated the dynamics of quantum discord and entanglement for two qubits subject to independent global transverse and/or longitudinal memoryless noisy classical fields. Global transverse and/or longitudinal random fields are found to drive the system to maximally discordant mixed separable steady states for suitable initial conditions. Moreover, two independent noises in the system are found to enhance both the steady state randomness and quantum discord in the absence of entanglement for some initial states.

id: 1207.5373
title: Time-dependent Hamiltonians with 100% evolution speed efficiency
authors: Raam Uzdin, Uwe Guenther, Saar Rahav, Nimrod Moiseyev
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, (2012), 415304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5373
abstract: The evolution speed in projective Hilbert space is considered for Hermitian Hamiltonians and for non-Hermitian (NH) ones. Based on the Hilbert-Schmidt norm and the spectral norm of a Hamiltonian, resource-related upper bounds on the evolution speed are constructed. These bounds are valid also for NH Hamiltonians and they are illustrated for an optical NH Hamiltonian and for a non-Hermitian $\mathcal{PT}-$symmetric matrix Hamiltonian. Furthermore, the concept of quantum speed efficiency is introduced as measure of the system resources directly spent on the motion in the projective Hilbert space. A recipe for the construction of time-dependent Hamiltonians which ensure 100% speed efficiency is given. Generally these efficient Hamiltonians are NH but there is a Hermitian efficient Hamiltonian as well. Finally, the extremal case of a non-Hermitian non-diagonalizable Hamiltonian with vanishing energy difference is shown to produce a 100% efficient evolution with minimal resources consumption.

id: 1207.5386
title: Verification of state and entanglement with incomplete tomography
authors: Yong Siah Teo, Berthold-Georg Englert, Jaroslav Rehacek, Zdenek Hradil, Dmitry Mogilevtsev
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5386
abstract: There exists, in general, a convex set of quantum state estimators that maximize the likelihood for informationally incomplete data. We propose an estimation scheme, catered to measurement data of this kind, to search for the exact maximum-likelihood-maximum-entropy estimator using semidefinite programming and a standard multi-dimensional function optimization routine. This scheme can be used to infer the expectation values of a set of entanglement witnesses that can be used to verify the entanglement of the unknown quantum state for composite systems. Next, we establish an alternative numerical scheme that is more computationally robust for the sole purpose of maximizing the likelihood and entropy.

id: 1207.5420
title: Extremal generalized quantum measurements
authors: Anna Jencova
comments: 13 pages. The paper was rewritten, reorganized and shortened, the title changed, references were added. Main results are the same
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5420
abstract: A measurement on a section K of the set of states of a finite dimensional C*-algebra is defined as an affine map from K to a probability simplex. Special cases of such sections are used in description of quantum networks, in particular quantum channels. Measurements on a section correspond to equivalence classes of so-called generalized POVMs, which are called quantum testers in the case of networks. We find extremality conditions for measurements on K and characterize generalized POVMs such that the corresponding measurement is extremal. These results are applied to the set of channels. We find explicit extremality conditions for two outcome measurements on qubit channels and give an example of an extremal qubit 1-tester such that the corresponding measurement is not extremal.

id: 1207.5435
title: Quantum channels and memory effects
authors: F. Caruso, V. Giovannetti, C. Lupo, S. Mancini
comments: Review article, 61 pages, 26 figures; 400 references. Final version of the manuscript, typos corrected
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 86, 1203 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5435
abstract: Any physical process can be represented as a quantum channel mapping an initial state to a final state. Hence it can be characterized from the point of view of communication theory, i.e., in terms of its ability to transfer information. Quantum information provides a theoretical framework and the proper mathematical tools to accomplish this. In this context the notion of codes and communication capacities have been introduced by generalizing them from the classical Shannon theory of information transmission and error correction. The underlying assumption of this approach is to consider the channel not as acting on a single system, but on sequences of systems, which, when properly initialized allow one to overcome the noisy effects induced by the physical process under consideration. While most of the work produced so far has been focused on the case in which a given channel transformation acts identically and independently on the various elements of the sequence (memoryless configuration in jargon), correlated error models appear to be a more realistic way to approach the problem. A slightly different, yet conceptually related, notion of correlated errors applies to a single quantum system which evolves continuously in time under the influence of an external disturbance which acts on it in a non-Markovian fashion. This leads to the study of memory effects in quantum channels: a fertile ground where interesting novel phenomena emerge at the intersection of quantum information theory and other branches of physics. A survey is taken of the field of quantum channels theory while also embracing these specific and complex settings.

id: 1207.5465
title: Experimental Observation of Quantum Chaos in a Beam of Light
authors: G. B. Lemos, R. M. Gomes, S. P. Walborn, P. H. Souto Ribeiro, F. Toscano
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 3:1211 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5465
abstract: The manner in which unpredictable chaotic dynamics manifests itself in quantum mechanics is a key question in the field of quantum chaos. Indeed, very distinct quantum features can appear due to underlying classical nonlinear dynamics. Here we observe signatures of quantum nonlinear dynamics through the direct measurement of the time-evolved Wigner function of the quantum-kicked harmonic oscillator, implemented in the spatial degrees of freedom of light. Our setup is decoherence-free and we can continuously tune the semiclassical and chaos parameters, so as to explore the transition from regular to essentially chaotic dynamics. Owing to its robustness and versatility, our scheme can be used to experimentally investigate a variety of nonlinear quantum phenomena. As an example, we couple this system to a quantum bit and experimentally investigate the decoherence produced by regular or chaotic dynamics.

id: 1207.5468
title: Atom-atom entanglement by single-photon detection
authors: L. Slodi?ka, G. H¨¦tet, N. R?ck, P. Schindler, M. Hennrich, R. Blatt
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 083603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5468
abstract: A scheme for entangling distant atoms is realized, as proposed in the seminal paper by Cabrillo et al. [Phys. Rev. A 59, 1025 (1999)]. The protocol is based on quantum interference and detection of a single photon scattered from two effectively one meter distant laser-cooled and trapped atomic ions. The detection of a single photon heralds entanglement of two internal states of the trapped ions with high rate and with a fidelity limited mostly by atomic motion. Control of the entangled state phase is demonstrated by changing the path length of the single-photon interferometer.

id: 1207.5474
title: Quantum interference induced by initial system-environment correlations
authors: Zhong-Xiao Man, Andrea Smirne, Yun-Jie Xia, Bassano Vacchini
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376, 2477 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5474
abstract: We investigate the quantum interference induced by a relative phase in the correlated initial state of a system which consists in a two-level atom interacting with a damped mode of the radiation field. We show that the initial relative phase has significant effects on both the evolution of the atomic excited-state population and the information flow between the atom and the reservoir, as quantified by the trace distance. Furthermore, by considering two two-level atoms interacting with a common damped mode of the radiation field, we highlight how initial relative phases can affect the subsequent entanglement dynamics.

id: 1207.5485
title: All quantum states useful for teleportation are nonlocal resources
authors: Daniel Cavalcanti, Antonio Acin, Nicolas Brunner, Tamas Vertesi
comments: 4 pages. v2: Title and abstract changed, presentation improved, references updated, same results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042104 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5485
abstract: Understanding the relation between the different forms of inseparability in quantum mechanics is a longstanding problem in the foundations of quantum theory and has implications for quantum information processing. Here we make progress in this direction by establishing a direct link between quantum teleportation and Bell nonlocality. In particular, we show that all entangled states which are useful for teleportation are nonlocal resources, i.e. lead to deterministic violation of Bell's inequality. Our result exploits the phenomenon of super-activation of quantum nonlocality, recently proved by Palazuelos, and suggests that the latter might in fact be generic.

id: 1207.5487
title: Nonlocal Interferometry Using Macroscopic Coherent States and Weak Nonlinearities
authors: B. T. Kirby, J. D. Franson
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053822 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5487
abstract: A method for performing nonlocal interferometry using phase-entangled macroscopic coherent states is described. The required entanglement can be generated using weak nonlinearities while Bell's inequality can be violated using single photons as a probe. The entanglement is relatively robust against photon loss and Bell's inequality can be violated over a relatively large distance in optical fibers despite the fact that a large number of photons are absorbed in the process.

id: 1207.5505
title: Implementing the Deutsch's algorithm with spin-orbital angular momentum of photon without interferometer
authors: Pei Zhang, Yan Jiang, Rui-Feng Liu, Hong Gao, Hong-Rong Li, Fu-Li Li
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Communications 285 (2012) 838--841
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5505
abstract: Deutsch's algorithm is the simplest quantum algorithm which shows the acceleration of quantum computer. In this paper, we theoretically advance a scheme to implement quantum Deutsch's algorithm in spin-orbital angular momentum space. Our scheme exploits a newly developed optical device called "q-plate", which can couple and manipulate the spin-orbital angular momentum simultaneously. This experimental setup is of high stability and efficiency theoretically for there is no interferometer in it.

id: 1207.5523
title: Entanglement is not a lower bound for geometric discord
authors: Swapan Rana, Preeti Parashar
comments: v3: Title changed, matrix theoretic proof removed due to a gap; Supplementary Material will be added later; accepted in PRA as Rapid Communication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 030302(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5523
abstract: We show that partial transposition of any $2\otimes n$ state can have at most $(n-1)$ number of negative eigenvalues. This extends a decade old result of $2\otimes 2$ case by Sanpera et al [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 58}, 826 (1998)]. We then apply this result to critically assess an important conjecture recently made in [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 84}, 052110 (2011)], namely, the (normalized) geometric discord should always be lower bounded by squared negativity. This conjecture has strengthened the common belief that measures of generic quantum correlations should be more than those of entanglement. Our analysis shows that unfortunately this is not the case and we give several counterexamples to this conjecture. All the examples considered here are in finite dimensions. Surprisingly, there are counterexamples in $2\otimes n$ for any $n>2$. Coincidentally, it appears that the $4\otimes 4$ Werner state, when seen as a $2\otimes 8$ dimensional state, also violates the conjecture. This result contributes significantly to the negative side of the current ongoing debates on the defining notion of geometric discord as a good measure of generic correlations.

id: 1207.5544
title: Security of distributed-phase-reference quantum key distribution
authors: Tobias Moroder, Marcos Curty, Charles Ci Wen Lim, Le Phuc Thinh, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 4 pages + appendix, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 260501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5544
abstract: Distributed-phase-reference quantum key distribution stands out for its easy implementation with present day technology. Since many years, a full security proof of these schemes in a realistic setting has been elusive. For the first time, we solve this long standing problem and present a generic method to prove the security of such protocols against general attacks. To illustrate our result we provide lower bounds on the key generation rate of a variant of the coherent-one-way quantum key distribution protocol. In contrast to standard predictions, it appears to scale quadratically with the system transmittance.

id: 1207.5556
title: Influence of boundary conditions on quantum escape
authors: Orestis Georgiou, Goran Gligori?, Achilleas Lazarides, Diego F. M. Oliveira, Joshua D. Bodyfelt, Arseni Goussev
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: EPL, 100 (2012) 20005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5556
abstract: It has recently been established that quantum statistics can play a crucial role in quantum escape. Here we demonstrate that boundary conditions can be equally important - moreover, in certain cases, may lead to a complete suppression of the escape. Our results are exact and hold for arbitrarily many particles.

id: 1207.5580
title: Perfect quantum transport in arbitrary spin networks
authors: Ashok Ajoy, Paola Cappellaro
comments: 5+7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 064303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5580
abstract: Spin chains have been proposed as wires to transport information between distributed registers in a quantum information processor. Unfortunately, the challenges in manufacturing linear chains with engineered couplings has hindered experimental implementations. Here we present strategies to achieve perfect quantum information transport in arbitrary spin networks. Our proposal is based on the weak coupling limit for pure state transport, where information is transferred between two end-spins that are only weakly coupled to the rest of the network. This regime allows disregarding the complex, internal dynamics of the bulk network and relying on virtual transitions or on the coupling to a single bulk eigenmode. We further introduce control methods capable of tuning the transport process and achieve perfect fidelity with limited resources, involving only manipulation of the end-qubits. These strategies could be thus applied not only to engineered systems with relaxed fabrication precision, but also to naturally occurring networks; specifically, we discuss the practical implementation of quantum state transfer between two separated nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers through a network of nitrogen substitutional impurities.

id: 1207.5581
title: Pulse-gated quantum dot hybrid qubit
authors: Teck Seng Koh, John King Gamble, Mark Friesen, M. A. Eriksson, S. N. Coppersmith
comments: ~5 pages, 3 figures, includes supplemental information
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 250503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5581
abstract: A quantum dot hybrid qubit formed from three electrons in a double quantum dot has the potential for great speed, due to presence of level crossings where the qubit becomes charge-like. Here, we show how to take full advantage of the level crossings in a pulsed gating scheme, which decomposes the spin qubit into a series of charge transitions. We develop one and two-qubit dc quantum gates that are simpler than the previously proposed ac gates. We obtain closed form solutions for the control sequences and show that these sub-nanosecond gates can achieve high fidelities.

id: 1207.5612
title: Quantum capacity of an amplitude-damping channel with memory
authors: Rabia Jahangir, Nigum Arshed, A. H. Toor
comments: 17 Pages, 5 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5612
abstract: We calculate the quantum capacity of an amplitude-damping channel with time correlated Markov noise, for two channel uses. Our results show that memory of the channel increases it's ability to transmit quantum information significantly. We analyze and compare our findings with earlier numerical results on amplitude-damping channel with memory. An upper bound on the amount of quantum information transmitted over the channel in presence of memory, for an arbitrary number of channel uses is also presented.

id: 1207.5726
title: Simpler semidefinite programs for completely bounded norms
authors: John Watrous
comments: 15 pages, reference added in version 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5726
abstract: The completely bounded trace and spectral norms, for finite-dimensional spaces, are known to be efficiently expressible by semidefinite programs (J. Watrous, Theory of Computing 5: 11, 2009). This paper presents two new, and arguably much simpler, semidefinite programming formulations of these norms.

id: 1207.5729
title: Continuous dynamical decoupling magnetometry
authors: Masashi Hirose, Clarice D. Aiello, Paola Cappellaro
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 86, 062320 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5729
abstract: Solid-state qubits hold the promise to achieve unmatched combination of sensitivity and spatial resolution. To achieve their potential, the qubits need however to be shielded from the deleterious e?ects of the environment. While dynamical decoupling techniques can improve the coherence time, they impose a compromise between sensitivity and bandwidth, since to higher decoupling power correspond higher frequencies of the ?eld to be measured. Moreover, the performance of pulse sequences is ultimately limited by control bounds and errors. Here we analyze a versatile alternative based on continuous driving. We ?nd that continuous dynamical decoupling schemes can be used for AC magnetometry, providing similar frequency constraints on the AC field and improved sensitivity for some noise regimes. In addition, the exibility of phase and amplitude modulation could yield superior robustness to driving errors and a better adaptability to external experimental scenarios.

id: 1207.5756
title: Entangling efficiency of linear-optical quantum gates
authors: Karel Lemr, Anton¨ªn ?ernoch, Jan Soubusta, Miloslav Du?ek
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032321 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5756
abstract: We propose a new measure of non-classicality of quantum gates which is particularly suitable for probabilistic devices. This measure enables to compare, e.g., deterministic devices which prepare entangled states with low amount of entanglement with probabilistic devices which generate highly entangled states but which fail sometimes. We provide examples demonstrating advantages of this new measure over the so far employed entangling power.

id: 1207.5768
title: Dissipative spin chains: Implementation with cold atoms and steady-state properties
authors: Heike Schwager, J. Ignacio Cirac, G¨¦za Giedke
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures, published version, includes new figure and several small changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022110 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5768
abstract: We propose a quantum optical implementation of a class of dissipative spin systems, including the XXZ and Ising model, with ultra-cold atoms in optical lattices. Employing the motional degree of freedom of the atoms and detuned Raman transitions we show how to obtain engineerable dissipation and a tunable transversal magnetic field, enabling the study of the dynamics and steady-states of dissipative spin models. As an example of effects made accessible this way, we consider small spin chains and weak dissipation and show by numerical simulation that steady-state expectation values display pronounced peaks at certain critical system parameters. We show that this effect is related to degeneracies in the Hamiltonian and derive a sufficient condition for its occurrence.

id: 1207.5775
title: A graphical presentation of signal delays in the datasets of Weihs et al
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures (all data visualization)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5775
abstract: A graphical presentation of the timing of avalanche photodiode events in the datasets from the experiment of Weihs et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 5039 (1998)] makes manifest the existence of two types of signal delay: (1) The introduction of rapid switching of the input to a pair of transverse electro-optical modulators causes a delay of approximately 20 nanoseconds for a proportion of coincident avalanche photodiode events; this effect has been previously noted, but a different cause is suggested by the data as considered here. (2) There are delays that depend on in which avalanche photodiode an event occurs; this effect has also been previously noted even though it is only strongly apparent when the relative time difference between avalanche photodiode events is near the stated 0.5 nanosecond accuracy of the timestamps (but it is identifiable because of 75 picosecond resolution). The cause of the second effect is a difference between signal delays for the four avalanche photodiodes, for which correction can be made by straightforward local adjustments (with almost no effect on the degree of violation of Bell-CHSH inequalities).

id: 1207.5785
title: Classical transients and the support of open quantum maps
authors: Gabriel G. Carlo, D. A. Wisniacki, Leonardo Ermann, R. M. Benito, F. Borondo
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 012909 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5785
abstract: The basic ingredients in a semiclassical theory are the classical invariant objects serving as a support for the quantization. Recent studies, mainly obtained on quantum maps, have led to the commonly accepted belief that it is the classical repeller -- the set of non escaping orbits in the future and past evolution -- the object that suitably plays this role in open scattering systems. In this paper we present numerical evidence warning that this may not always be the case. For this purpose we study recently introduced families of tribaker maps [L. Ermann, G.G. Carlo, J.M. Pedrosa, and M. Saraceno, Phys. Rev. E {\bf 85}, 066204 (2012)], which share the same asymptotic properties but differ in their short time behavior. We have found that although the eigenvalue distribution of the evolution operator of these maps follows the fractal Weyl law prediction, the theory of short periodic orbits for open maps fails to describe the resonance eigenfunctions of some of them. This is a strong indication that new elements must be included in the semiclassical description of open quantum systems.

id: 1207.5846
title: Fermionic Measurement-based Quantum Computation
authors: Yu-Ju Chiu, Xie Chen, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012305 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5846
abstract: Fermions, as a major class of quantum particles, provide platforms for quantum information processing beyond the possibilities of spins or bosons which have been studied more extensively. One particularly interesting model to study, in view of recent progress in manipulating ultracold fermion gases, is the fermionic version of measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC), which implements full quantum computation with only single site measurements on a proper fermionic many-body resource state. However, it is not known which fermionic states can be used as the resource states for MBQC and how to find them. In this paper, we generalize the framework of spin MBQC to fermions. In particular, we provide a general formalism to construct many-body entangled fermion resource states for MBQC based on the fermionic projected entangled pair state representation. We give a specific fermionic state which enables universal MBQC and demonstrate that the non-locality inherent in fermion systems can be properly taken care of with suitable measurement schemes. Such a framework opens up possibilities of finding MBQC resource states which can be more readily realized in the lab.

id: 1207.5868
title: Composite-pulse magnetometry with a solid-state quantum sensor
authors: Clarice D. Aiello, Masashi Hirose, Paola Cappellaro
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 4, 1419 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5868
abstract: The sensitivity of quantum magnetometers is challenged by control errors and, especially in the solid-state, by their short coherence times. Refocusing techniques can overcome these limitations and improve the sensitivity to periodic fields, but they come at the cost of reduced bandwidth and cannot be applied to sense static (DC) or aperiodic fields. Here we experimentally demonstrate that continuous driving of the sensor spin by a composite pulse known as rotary-echo (RE) yields a flexible magnetometry scheme, mitigating both driving power imperfections and decoherence. A suitable choice of RE parameters compensates for different scenarios of noise strength and origin. The method can be applied to nanoscale sensing in variable environments or to realize noise spectroscopy. In a room-temperature implementation based on a single electronic spin in diamond, composite-pulse magnetometry provides a tunable trade-off between sensitivities in the microT/sqrt(Hz) range, comparable to those obtained with Ramsey spectroscopy, and coherence times approaching T1.

id: 1207.5877
title: Direct evaluation of pure graph state entanglement
authors: Michal Hajdu?ek, Mio Murao
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 013039
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5877
abstract: We address the question of quantifying entanglement in pure graph states. Evaluation of multipartite entanglement measures is extremely hard for most pure quantum states. In this paper we demonstrate how solving one problem in graph theory, namely the identification of maximum independent set, allows us to evaluate three multipartite entanglement measures for pure graph states. We construct the minimal linear decomposition into product states for a large group of pure graph states, allowing us to evaluate the Schmidt measure. Furthermore we show that computation of distance-like measures such as relative entropy of entanglement and geometric measure becomes tractable for these states by explicit construction of closest separable and closest product states respectively. We show how these separable states can be described using stabiliser formalism as well as PEPs-like construction. Finally we discuss the way in which introducing noise to the system can optimally destroy entanglement.

id: 1207.5880
title: Analysis of the quantum Zeno effect for quantum control and computation
authors: Jason M. Dominy, Gerardo A. Paz-Silva, A. T. Rezakhani, D. A. Lidar
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 075306 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5880
abstract: Within quantum information, many methods have been proposed to avoid or correct the deleterious effects of the environment on a system of interest. In this work, expanding on our earlier paper [G. A. Paz-Silva et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 080501 (2012), arXiv:1104.5507], we evaluate the applicability of the quantum Zeno effect as one such method. Using the algebraic structure of stabilizer quantum error correction codes as a unifying framework, two open-loop protocols are described which involve frequent non-projective (i.e., weak) measurement of either the full stabilizer group or a minimal generating set thereof. The effectiveness of the protocols is measured by the distance between the final state under the protocol and the final state of an idealized evolution in which system and environment do not interact. Rigorous bounds on this metric are derived which demonstrate that, under certain assumptions, a Zeno effect may be realized with arbitrarily weak measurements, and that this effect can protect an arbitrary, unknown encoded state against the environment arbitrarily well.

id: 1207.5904
title: Possibility of Upper-Bounding Dimension of Quantum States Device-Independently
authors: Won-Young Hwang
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5904
abstract: We discuss possibility of upper-bounding dimension of quantum states device-independently. Provided that the states are pure, it is possible to generate certain four states whose dimension is bounded by two.

id: 1207.5921
title: Exact results for classical Casimir interactions: Dirichlet and Drude model in the sphere-sphere and sphere-plane geometry
authors: G. Bimonte, T. Emig
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 160403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5921
abstract: Analytic expressions that describe Casimir interactions over the entire range of separations have been limited to planar surfaces. Here we derive analytic expressions for the classical or high-temperature limit of Casimir interactions between two spheres (interior and exterior configurations), including the sphere-plane geometry as a special case, using bispherical coordinates. We consider both Dirichlet boundary conditions and metallic boundary conditions described by the Drude model. At short distances, closed-form expansions are derived from the exact result, displaying an intricate structure of deviations from the commonly employed proximity force approximation.

id: 1207.5968
title: Quantification of memory effects in the spin-boson model
authors: Govinda Clos, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012115 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5968
abstract: Employing a recently proposed measure for quantum non-Markovianity, we carry out a systematic study of the size of memory effects in the spin-boson model for a large region of temperature and frequency cutoff parameters. The dynamics of the open system is described utilizing a second-order time-convolutionless master equation without the Markov or rotating wave approximations. While the dynamics is found to be strongly non-Markovian for low temperatures and cutoffs, in general, we observe a special regime favoring Markovian behavior. This effect is explained as resulting from a resonance between the system's transition frequency and the frequencies of the dominant environmental modes. We further demonstrate that the corresponding Redfield equation is capable of reproducing the characteristic features of the non-Markovian quantum behavior of the model.

id: 1207.5982
title: Generating the Kochen-Specker Sets with 36, 38 and 40 Rays in Three-qubit System: Three Simple Algorithms
authors: S. P. Toh
comments: 5 pages, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5982
abstract: We put forward three simple algorithms to generate Kochen-Specker sets used for parity proof of Kochen-Specker theorem in three-qubit system. These algorithms enables us to generate 320, 640 and 64 Kochen-Specket sets with 36, 38 and 40 rays, respectively. No any computer calculation is required, every step in the algorithms is determined by the method of picking the rays that repeat 4 times in the KS sets.

id: 1207.5997
title: The effect of spontaneous collapses on neutrino oscillations
authors: S. Donadi, A. Bassi, C. Curceanu, L. Ferialdi
comments: 24 pages, RevTeX. Updated version
journal: Foundations of Physics 43, 1066-1089 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5997
abstract: We compute the effect of collapse models on neutrino oscillations. The effect of the collapse is to modify the evolution of the `spatial' part of the wave function, which indirectly amounts to a change on the flavor components. In many respects, this phenomenon is similar to neutrino propagation through matter. For the analysis we use the mass proportional CSL model, and perform the calculation to second order perturbation theory. As we will show, the CSL prediction is very small - mainly due to the very small mass of neutrinos - and practically undetectable.

id: 1207.6000
title: Are Collapse Models Testable via Flavor Oscillations?
authors: S. Donadi, A. Bassi, C. Curceanu, A. Di Domenico, B. C. Hiesmayr
comments: 20 pages, RevTeX
journal: Foundations of Physics: Volume 43, Issue 7 (2013), Page 813-844
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6000
abstract: Collapse models predict the spontaneous collapse of the wave function, in order to avoid the emergence of macroscopic superpositions. In their mass-dependent formulation they claim that the collapse of any system's wave function depends on its mass. Neutral K, D, B mesons are oscillating systems that are given by Nature as superposition of different mass eigenstates. Thus they are unique and interesting systems to look at, for analyzing the experimental implications of such models, so far in agreement with all known experiments. In this paper we derive - for the single mesons and bipartite entangled mesons - the effect of the mass-proportional CSL collapse model on the dynamics on neutral mesons, including the relativistic effects. We compare the theoretical prediction with experimental data from different accelerator facilities.

id: 1207.6007
title: Storage and control of optical photons using Rydberg polaritons
authors: D. Maxwell, D. J. Szwer, D. P. Barato, H. Busche, J. D. Pritchard, A. Gauguet, K. J. Weatherill, M. P. A. Jones, C. S. Adams
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 103001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6007
abstract: We use a microwave field to control the quantum state of optical photons stored in a cold atomic cloud. The photons are stored in highly excited collective states (Rydberg polaritons) enabling both fast qubit rotations and control of photon-photon interactions. Through the collective read-out of these pseudo-spin rotations it is shown that the microwave field modifies the long-range interactions between polaritons. This technique provides a powerful interface between the microwave and optical domains, with applications in quantum simulations of spin liquids, quantum metrology and quantum networks.

id: 1207.6008
title: High-fidelity entanglement purification using chains of atoms and optical cavities
authors: Denis Gonta, Peter van Loock
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, revised version accepted in PRA. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1106.3537
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052312 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6008
abstract: In our previous paper [Phys. Rev. A 84, 042303 (2011)], we proposed an efficient scheme to purify dynamically a bipartite entangled state using short chains of atoms coupled to high-finesse optical cavities. In contrast to conventional entanglement purification protocols, we avoid controlled-NOT gates and thus reduce complicated pulse sequences and superfluous qubit operations. In this paper, we significantly improve the output fidelity of remotely entangled atoms by introducing one additional entanglement protocol in each of the repeater nodes and by optimizing the laser beams required to control the entire scheme. Our improved distillation scheme yields an almost unit output fidelity that, together with the entanglement distribution and swapping, opens an attractive route towards an efficient and experimentally feasible quantum repeater for long-distance quantum communication.

id: 1207.6035
title: Experimental scheme for qubit and qutrit symmetric informationally complete positive operator-valued measurements using multiport devices
authors: Gelo Noel M. Tabia
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures; v2 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062107 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6035
abstract: It is crucial for various quantum information processing tasks that the state of a quantum system can be determined reliably and efficiently from general quantum measurements. One important class of measurements for this purpose is symmetric informationally complete positive operator-valued measurements (SIC-POVMs). SIC-POVMs have the advantage of providing an unbiased estimator for the quantum state with the minimal number of outcomes needed for full tomography. By virtue of Naimark's dilation theorem, any POVM can always be realized with a suitable coupling between the system and an auxiliary system and by performing a projective measurement on the joint system. In practice, finding the appropriate coupling is rather non-trivial. Here we propose an experimental design for directly implementing SIC-POVMs using multiport devices and path-encoded qubits and qutrits, the utility of which has recently been demonstrated by several experimental groups around the world. Furthermore, we describe how these multiports can be attained in practice with an integrated photonic system composed of nested linear optical elements.

id: 1207.6039
title: High cooperativity in coupled microwave resonator ferrimagnetic insulator hybrids
authors: Hans Huebl, Christoph Zollitsch, Johannes Lotze, Fredrik Hocke, Moritz Greifenstein, Achim Marx, Rudolf Gross, Sebastian T. B. Goennenwein
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 111 127003 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6039
abstract: We report the observation of strong coupling between the exchange-coupled spins in gallium-doped yttrium iron garnet and a superconducting coplanar microwave resonator made from Nb. The measured coupling rate of 450 MHz is proportional to the square-root of the number of exchange-coupled spins and well exceeds the loss rate of 50 MHz of the spin system. This demonstrates that exchange coupled systems are suitable for cavity quantum electrodynamics experiments, while allowing high integration densities due to their extraordinary high spin densities. Our results furthermore show, that experiments with multiple exchange-coupled spin systems interacting via a single resonator are within reach.

id: 1207.6048
title: Transport of Quantum Correlations across a spin chain
authors: Tony J. G. Apollaro, Salvatore Lorenzo, Francesco Plastina
comments: Review submitted to Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems", edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1345035 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6048
abstract: Some of the recent developments concerning the propagation of quantum correlations across spin channels are reviewed. In particular, we focus on the improvement of the transport efficiency obtained by the manipulation of few energy parameters (either end-bond strengths or local magnetic fields) near the sending and receiving sites. We give a physically insightful description of various such schemes and discuss the transfer of both entanglement and of quantum discord.

id: 1207.6060
title: Tripartite entanglement dynamics in a system of strongly driven qubits
authors: Marcin Dukalski, Ya. M. Blanter
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6060
abstract: We study the dynamics of tripartite entanglement in a system of two strongly driven qubits individually coupled to a dissipative cavity. We aim at explanation of the previously noted entanglement revival between two qubits in this system. We show that the periods of entanglement loss correspond to the strong tripartite entanglement between the qubits and the cavity and the recovery has to do with an inverse process. We demonstrate that the overall process of qubit-qubit entanglement loss is due to the second order coupling to the external continuum which explains the exp[-g^2 t/2+g^2 k t^3/6+\cdot] for of the entanglement loss reported previously.

id: 1207.6062
title: Quantum state cloning in the presence of a closed timelike curve
authors: D. Ahn, C. R. Myers, T. C. Ralph, R. B. Mann
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1008.0221
journal: Physical Review A88, 022332 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6062
abstract: The possible existence of closed timelike curves (CTCs) draws attention to fundamental questions about what is physically possible and what is not. An example is the "no cloning theorem" in quantum mechanics, which states that no physical means exists by which an unknown arbitrary quantum state can be reproduced or copied perfectly. Using the Deutsch approach, we have shown that the no-cloning theorem can be circumvented in the presence of closed timelike curves, allowing the perfect cloning of a quantum state chosen randomly from a finite alphabet of states. Further, we show that a universal cloner can be constructed that when acting on a completely arbitrary qubit state, exceeds the no-cloning bound on fidelity. Since the no cloning theorem has played a central role in the development of quantum information science, it is clear that the existence of closed timelike curves would radically change the rules for quantum information technology. Nevertheless, we show that this type of cloning does not violate no-signalling criteria.

id: 1207.6063
title: Mediated gates between spin qubits
authors: Jianjia Fei, Dong Zhou, Yun-Pil Shim, Sangchul Oh, Xuedong Hu, Mark Friesen
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062328 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6063
abstract: In a typical quantum circuit, nonlocal quantum gates are applied to nonproximal qubits. If the underlying physical interactions are short-range (e.g., exchange interactions between spins), intermediate swap operations must be introduced, thus increasing the circuit depth. Here we develop a class of "mediated" gates for spin qubits, which act on nonproximal spins via intermediate ancilla qubits. At the end of the operation, the ancillae return to their initial states. We show how these mediated gates can be used (1) to generate arbitrary quantum states and (2) to construct arbitrary quantum gates. We provide some explicit examples of circuits that generate common states [e.g., Bell, Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ), W, and cluster states] and gates (e.g.,square-root-SWAP, SWAP, CNOT, and Toffoli gates). We show that the depths of these circuits are often shorter than those of conventional swap-based circuits. We also provide an explicit experimental proposal for implementing a mediated gate in a triple-quantum-dot system.

id: 1207.6080
title: Coherent Quantum Transport in Photonic Lattices
authors: Armando Perez-Leija, Robert Keil, Alastair Kay, Hector Moya-Cessa, Stefan Nolte, Leong-Chuan Kwek, Blas M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, Alexander Szameit, Demetrios N. Christodoulides
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012309 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6080
abstract: Transferring quantum states efficiently between distant nodes of an information processing circuit is of paramount importance for scalable quantum computing. We report on the first observation of a perfect state transfer protocol on a lattice, thereby demonstrating the general concept of trans- porting arbitrary quantum information with high fidelity. Coherent transfer over 19 sites is realized by utilizing judiciously designed optical structures consisting of evanescently coupled waveguide ele- ments. We provide unequivocal evidence that such an approach is applicable in the quantum regime, for both bosons and fermions, as well as in the classical limit. Our results illustrate the potential of the perfect state transfer protocol as a promising route towards integrated quantum computing on a chip.

id: 1207.6097
title: Complete nonclassicality test with a photon-number resolving detector
authors: T. Kiesel, W. Vogel
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 032119 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6097
abstract: We present a method for the experimental measurement of nonclassicality witnesses and demonstrate its application. Our proposal only requires the coherent displacement of the initial state, which can be achieved by overlapping the latter with a coherent state at a beam splitter, and subsequent photon-number resolved detection. This setup allows a complete test of nonclassicality of an arbitrary quantum state. The role of the quantum efficiency as well as statistical and systematic uncertainties are discussed. Finally, the scheme is demonstrated for a realistic example.

id: 1207.6131
title: Sufficient condition on noise correlations for scalable quantum computing
authors: John Preskill
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure. (v2) Minor corrections and clarifications
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 13, 181-194 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6131
abstract: I study the effectiveness of fault-tolerant quantum computation against correlated Hamiltonian noise, and derive a sufficient condition for scalability. Arbitrarily long quantum computations can be executed reliably provided that noise terms acting collectively on k system qubits are sufficiently weak, and decay sufficiently rapidly with increasing k and with increasing spatial separation of the qubits.

id: 1207.6172
title: Optimal networks for Quantum Metrology: semidefinite programs and product rules
authors: G. Chiribella
comments: 19 pages, no figures, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 14 125008 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6172
abstract: We investigate the optimal estimation of a quantum process that can possibly consist of multiple time steps. The estimation is implemented by a quantum network that interacts with the process by sending an input and processing the output at each time step. We formulate the search of the optimal network as a semidefinite program and use duality theory to give an alternative expression for the maximum payoff achieved by estimation. Combining this formulation with a technique devised by Mittal and Szegedy we prove a general product rule for the joint estimation of independent processes, stating that the optimal joint estimation can achieved by estimating each process independently, whenever the figure of merit is of a product form. We illustrate the result in several examples and exhibit counterexamples showing that the optimal joint network may not be the product of the optimal individual networks if the processes are not independent or if the figure of merit is not of the product form. In particular, we show that entanglement can reduce by a factor K the variance in the estimation of the sum of K independent phase shifts.

id: 1207.6197
title: Generic Mechanism of Optimal Energy Transfer Efficiency: A Scaling Theory of the Mean First Passage Time in Exciton Systems
authors: Jianlan Wu, Jianshu Cao, Robert J. Silbey
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 200402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6197
abstract: An asymptotic scaling theory is presented using the conceptual basis of trapping-free subspace (i.e., orthogonal subspace) to establish the generic mechanism of optimal efficiency of excitation energy transfer (EET) in light-harvesting systems. Analogous to Kramers' turnover in classical rate theory, the enhanced efficiency in the weak damping limit and the suppressed efficiency in the strong damping limit define two asymptotic scaling regimes, which are interpolated to predict the functional form of optimal efficiency of the trapping-free subspace. In the presence of static disorder, the scaling law of transfer time with respect to dephasing rate changes from linear to square root, suggesting a weaker dependence on the environment. Though formulated in the context of EET, the analysis and conclusions apply in general to open quantum processes, including electron transfer, fluorescence emission, and heat conduction.

id: 1207.6215
title: Is the individuality interpretation of quantum theory wrong ?
authors: Ulf Klein
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6215
abstract: We analyze the question whether or not quantum theory should be used to describe single particles. Our final result is that a rational basis for such an 'individuality interpretation' does not exist. A critical examination of three principles, supporting the individuality interpretation, leads to the result that no one of these principles seems to be realized in nature. The well-known controversy characterized by the names of Einstein (EPR), Bohr and Bell is analyzed. EPR proved 'predictive incompleteness' of quantum theory, which implies that no individuality interpretation exists. Contrary to the common opinion, Bell's proof of 'metaphysical completeness' does not invalidate EPR's proof because two crucially different meanings of 'completeness' are involved. The failure to distinguish between these two meanings is closely related to a fundamentally deterministic world view, which dominated the thinking of the 19th century and determines our thinking even today.

id: 1207.6221
title: Are Scattering Properties of Graphs Uniquely Connected to Their Shapes?
authors: Oleh Hul, Micha? ?awniczak, Szymon Bauch, Adam Sawicki, Marek Ku?, Leszek Sirko
comments: 3 figures; Physical Review Letters, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6221
abstract: The famous question of Mark Kac "Can one hear the shape of a drum?" addressing the unique connection between the shape of a planar region and the spectrum of the corresponding Laplace operator can be legitimately extended to scattering systems. In the modified version one asks whether the geometry of a vibrating system can be determined by scattering experiments. We present the first experimental approach to this problem in the case of microwave graphs (networks) simulating quantum graphs. Our experimental results strongly indicate a negative answer. To demonstrate this we consider scattering from a pair of isospectral microwave networks consisting of vertices connected by microwave coaxial cables and extended to scattering systems by connecting leads to infinity to form isoscattering networks. We show that the amplitudes and phases of the determinants of the scattering matrices of such networks are the same within the experimental uncertainties. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the scattering matrices of the networks are conjugated by the, so called, transplantation relation.

id: 1207.6242
title: Nonlinear Fermions and Coherent States
authors: D. A. Trifonov
comments: latex, 16 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 244037
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6242
abstract: Nonlinear fermions of degree $n$ ($n$-fermions) are introduced as particles with creation and annihilation operators obeying the simple nonlinear anticommutation relation $AA^\dagger + {A^\dagger}^n A^n = 1$. The ($n+1$)-order nilpotency of these operators follows from the existence of unique $A$-vacuum. Supposing appropreate ($n+1$)-order nilpotent para-Grassmann variables and integration rules the sets of $n$-fermion number states, 'right' and 'left' ladder operator coherent states (CS) and displacement-operator-like CS are constructed. The $(n+1)\times(n+1)$ matrix realization of the related para-Grassmann algebra is provided. General $(n+1)$-order nilpotent ladder operators of finite dimensional systems are expressed as polynomials in terms of $n$-fermion operators. Overcomplete sets of (normalized) 'right' and 'left' eigenstates of such general ladder operators are constructed and their properties briefly discussed.

id: 1207.6316
title: Reactant-Product Quantum Coherence in Electron Transfer Reactions
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 026111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6316
abstract: We investigate the physical meaning of quantum superposition states between reactants and products in electron transfer reactions. We show that such superpositions are strongly suppressed and to leading orders of perturbation theory do not pertain in electron transfer reactions. This is because of the intermediate manifold of states separating the reactants from the products. We provide an intuitive description of these considerations with Feynman diagrams. We also discuss the relation of such quantum coherences to understanding the fundamental quantum dynamics of spin-selective radical-ion-pair reactions.

id: 1207.6345
title: Proof-of-principle demonstration of measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution using polarization qubits
authors: T. Ferreira da Silva, D. Vitoreti, G. B. Xavier, G. C. do Amaral, G. P. Tempor?o, J. P. von der Weid
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6345
abstract: We perform a proof-of-principle demonstration of the measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) protocol using weak coherent states and polarization-encoded qubits over two optical fiber links of 8.5 km each. Each link was independently stabilized against polarization drifts using a full-polarization control system employing two wavelength-multiplexed control channels. A linear-optics-based polarization Bell-state analyzer was built into the intermediate station, Charlie, which is connected to both Alice and Bob via the optical fiber links. Using decoy-states, a lower bound for the secret-key generation rate of 1.04x10^-6 bits/pulse is computed.

id: 1207.6352
title: Bell inequalities and hidden variables over all possible paths in a quantum system
authors: Warren Leffler
comments: small changes in wording
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6352
abstract: Bell's theorem rests on the following fundamental condition for a local system: P(a,b|alpha, beta, lambda)= P(a|alpha, lambda)P(b|beta, lambda). Here a and b are the outcomes respectively for measurements alpha on one side, and beta on the other, of an experiment involving two entangled particles traveling in opposite directions from a source. The parameter lambda (the set of "hidden variables") represents a more complete description of the joint state of the two particles. Because of lambda, the joint probability of detection is now dependent only on lambda and the local measurement setting of alpha; similarly for the other side and the setting beta. From this equation John Bell derived a simple inequality that is violated by the predictions of quantum mechanics, which is generally taken to imply that quantum mechanics is a nonlocal theory. But, by combining Richard Feynman's formulation of quantum mechanics with a model of particle interaction described by David Deutsch, we develop a system (the "space of all paths," SP) that (1) is immediately seen to replicate the predictions of quantum mechanics, (2) has a single outcome for each quantum event (unlike MWI on which it is partly based), and (3) contains the set lambda of hidden variables consisting of all possible paths from the source to the detectors on each side of the two-particle experiment. However, the set lambda is nonmeasurable, and therefore the above equation is meaningless in SP.

id: 1207.6366
title: Experimental determination of the degree of quantum polarisation of continuous variable states
authors: Christian Kothe, Lars Skovgaard Madsen, Ulrik Lund Andersen, Gunnar Bj?rk
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6366
abstract: We demonstrate excitation-manifold resolved polarisation characterisation of continuous-variable (CV) quantum states. In contrast to traditional characterisation of polarisation that is based on the Stokes parameters, we experimentally determine the Stokes vector of each excitation manifold separately. Only for states with a given photon number does the methods coincide. For states with an indeterminate photon number, for example Gaussian states, the employed method gives a richer and more accurate description. We apply the method both in theory and in experiment to some common states to demonstrate its advantages.

id: 1207.6427
title: Coherent control of population transfer between vibrational states in an optical lattice via two-path quantum interference
authors: Chao Zhuang, Christopher R. Paul, Xiaoxian Liu, Samansa Maneshi, Luciano S. Cruz, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6427
abstract: We demonstrate coherent control of population transfer between vibrational states in an optical lattice by using interference between a one-phonon transition at $2\omega$ and a two-phonon transition at $\omega$. The $\omega$ and $2\omega$ transitions are driven by phase- and amplitude-modulation of the lattice laser beams, respectively. By varying the relative phase between these two pathways, we control the branching ratio of transitions to the first excited state and to the higher states. Our best result shows an improvement of the branching ratio by a factor of 3.5$\pm$0.7. Such quantum control techniques may find broad application in suppressing leakage errors in a variety of quantum information architectures.

id: 1207.6435
title: Capacity of optical reading, Part 1: Reading boundless error-free bits using a single photon
authors: Saikat Guha, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures, v3 includes a new plot characterizing the photon efficiency vs. encoding efficiency tradeoff for optical reading. The main technical body of the paper remains unaltered
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062306 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6435
abstract: We show that nature imposes no fundamental upper limit to the number of information bits per expended photon that can, in principle, be read reliably when classical data is encoded in a medium that can only passively modulate the amplitude and phase of the probe light. We show that with a coherent-state (laser) source, an on-off (amplitude-modulation) pixel encoding, and shot-noise-limited direct detection (an overly-optimistic model for commercial CD/DVD drives), the highest photon information efficiency achievable in principle is about 0.5 bit per transmitted photon. We then show that a coherent-state probe can read unlimited bits per photon when the receiver is allowed to make joint (inseparable) measurements on the reflected light from a large block of phase-modulated memory pixels. Finally, we show an example of a spatially-entangled non-classical light probe and a receiver design---constructable using a single-photon source, beam splitters, and single-photon detectors---that can in principle read any number of error-free bits of information. The probe is a single photon prepared in a uniform coherent superposition of multiple orthogonal spatial modes, i.e., a W-state. The code, target, and joint-detection receiver complexity required by a coherent-state transmitter to achieve comparable photon efficiency performance is shown to be much higher in comparison to that required by the W-state transceiver.

id: 1207.6462
title: A high-fidelity single-photon source based on a type-II optical parametric oscillator
authors: Olivier Morin, Virginia D'Auria, Claude Fabre, Julien Laurat
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 37, 17 (2012) 3738
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6462
abstract: Using a continuous-wave type-II optical parametric oscillator below threshold, we have demonstrated a novel source of heralded single-photons with high-fidelity. The generated state is characterized by homodyne detection and exhibits a 79% fidelity with a single-photon Fock state (91% after correction of detection loss). The low admixture of vacuum and the well-defined spatiotemporal mode are critical requirements for their subsequent use in quantum information processing.

id: 1207.6493
title: Construction of optimal teleportation witness operators from entanglement witnesses
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari, Nirman Ganguly, A. S. Majumdar
comments: 4 pages. Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032315 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6493
abstract: Teleportation witnesses are hermitian operators which can identify useful entanglement for quantum teleportation. Here we provide a systematic method to construct teleportation witnesses from entanglement witnesses corresponding to general qudit systems. The witnesses so constructed are shown to be optimal for qubit and qutrit systems, and therefore detect the largest set of states useful for teleportation within a given class. We demonstrate the action of the witness pertaining to different classes of states in qubits and qutrits. Decomposition of the witness in terms of spin operators facilitiates experimental identification of useful resources for teleportation.

id: 1207.6494
title: Landau problem with a general time-dependent electric field
authors: J. Chee
comments: 10 pages
journal: Annals of Physics 324 (2009) 97-105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6494
abstract: The time evolution is studied for the Landau problem with a general time dependent electric field ${\bf E}(t)$ in a plane perpendicular to the magnetic field. A general and explicit factorization of the time evolution operator is derived with each factor having a clear physical interpretation. The factorization consists of a geometric operator (path-ordered magnetic translation), a dynamical operator generated by the usual time-independent Landau Hamiltonian, and a nonadiabatic operator that determines the transition probabilities among the Landau levels. Since the path-ordered magnetic translation and the nonadiabatic operators are, up to completely determined numerical phase factors, just ordinary exponentials whose exponents are explicitly expressible in terms of the canonical variables, all of the factors in the factorization are explicitly constructed. The numerical phase factors are quantum mechanical in nature and could be of significance in interference experiments. The factorization is unique from the point of view of the quantum adiabatic theorem and provides a demonstration of how the quantum adiabatic theorem (incorporating the Berry phase phenomenon) is realized when infinitely degenerate energy levels are involved. Since the factorization separates the effect caused by the electric field into a geometric factor and a nonadiabatic factor, it makes possible to calculate the nonadiabatic transition probabilities near the adiabatic limit. A formula for matrix elements that determines the mixing of the Landau levels for a general, non-adiabatic evolution is also provided by the factorization.

id: 1207.6497
title: Spin in a General Time Varying Magnetic Field: Generalization of the Adiabatic Factorization of Time Evolution
authors: J. Chee
comments: 10 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, 43 (2010) 345301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6497
abstract: An extension of the adiabatic factorization of the time evolution operator is studied for spin in a general time varying magnetic field $B(t)$. When $B(t)$ changes adiabatically, such a factorization reduces to the product of the geometric operator which embodies the Berry phase phenomenon and a usual dynamical operator. For a general time variation of $B(t)$, there should be another operator $N(t)$ in the factorization that is related to non-adiabatic transitions. A simple and explicit expression for the instantaneous angular velocity of this operator is derived. This is done in a way that is independent of any specific representation of spin. Two classes of simple conditions are given under which the operator $N(t)$ can be made explicit. As a special case, a generalization of the traditional magnetic resonance condition is pointed out.

id: 1207.6499
title: Quantum Zeno dynamics of a field in a cavity
authors: Jean-Michel Raimond, Paolo Facchi, Bruno Peaudecerf, Saverio Pascazio, Cl¨¦ment Sayrin, Igor Dotsenko, S¨¦bastien Gleyzes, Michel Brune, Serge Haroche
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6499
abstract: We analyze the quantum Zeno dynamics that takes place when a field stored in a cavity undergoes frequent interactions with atoms. We show that repeated measurements or unitary operations performed on the atoms probing the field state confine the evolution to tailored subspaces of the total Hilbert space. This confinement leads to non-trivial field evolutions and to the generation of interesting non-classical states, including mesoscopic field state superpositions. We elucidate the main features of the quantum Zeno mechanism in the context of a state-of-the-art cavity quantum electrodynamics experiment. A plethora of effects is investigated, from state manipulations by phase space tweezers to nearly arbitrary state synthesis. We analyze in details the practical implementation of this dynamics and assess its robustness by numerical simulations including realistic experimental imperfections. We comment on the various perspectives opened by this proposal.

id: 1207.6500
title: Landau electron in a rotating environment: a general factorization of time evolution
authors: J. Chee
comments: 13 pages, final version, two references added, a correction and some improvements in presentation
journal: Annals of Physics 327 (2012) 2853-2864
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6500
abstract: For the Landau problem with a rotating magnetic field and a potential in the (changing) direction of the field, we derive a general factorization of the time evolution operator that includes the adiabatic factorization as a special case. We assume that the direction of the magnetic field changes with time in a general way, so the Heisenberg equations of motion cannot be solved by quadrature. Also, the potential is assumed to be of a general form. We use the rotation operator associated with the solid angle Berry phase to transform the problem to a rotating reference frame that follows the direction of the magnetic field. In the rotating reference frame, we derive a natural factorization of the time evolution operator by recognizing the crucial role played by a gauge transformation. The major complexity of the problem arises from the coupling between motion in the direction of the magnetic field and motion perpendicular to the field. In the factorization, this complexity is consolidated into a single operator that approaches the identity operator when the potential confines the particle sufficiently close to a plane perpendicular to the magnetic field. The structure of this operator is clarified by deriving an expression for its generating Hamiltonian. The magnetic translation is the most notable physical consequence in the adiabatic limit. This and the non-adiabatic effects are studied as consequences of the general factorization.

id: 1207.6519
title: Dissipative and Non-dissipative Single-Qubit Channels: Dynamics and Geometry
authors: S. Omkar, R. Srikanth, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing 12, 3725 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6519
abstract: Single-qubit channels are studied under two broad classes: amplitude damping channels and generalized depolarizing channels. A canonical derivation of the Kraus representation of the former, via the Choi isomorphism is presented for the general case of a system's interaction with a squeezed thermal bath. This isomorphism is also used to characterize the difference in the geometry and rank of these channel classes. Under the isomorphism, the degree of decoherence is quantified according to the mixedness or separability of the Choi matrix. Whereas the latter channels form a 3-simplex, the former channels do not form a convex set as seen from an ab initio perspective. Further, where the rank of generalized depolarizing channels can be any positive integer upto 4, that of amplitude damping ones is either 2 or 4. Various channel performance parameters are used to bring out the different influences of temperature and squeezing in dissipative channels. In particular, a noise range is identified where the distinguishability of states improves inspite of increasing decoherence due to environmental squeezing.

id: 1207.6537
title: Wick's theorem for matrix product states
authors: R. H¨¹bener, A. Mari, J. Eisert
comments: 6 pages, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 040401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6537
abstract: Matrix-product states and their continuous analogues are variational classes of states that capture quantum many-body systems or quantum fields with low entanglement; they are at the basis of the density-matrix renormalization group method and continuous variants thereof. In this work we show that, generically, N-point functions of arbitrary operators in discrete and continuous translationally invariant matrix product states are completely characterized by the corresponding two- and three-point functions. Aside from having important consequences for the structure of correlations in quantum states with low entanglement, this result provides a new way of reconstructing unknown states from correlation measurements, e.g., for one-dimensional continuous systems of cold atoms. We argue that such a relation of correlation functions may help in devising perturbative approaches to interacting theories.

id: 1207.6551
title: The exact solution of generalized Dicke models via Susskind-Glogower operators
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, H. M. Moya-Cessa
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 095301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6551
abstract: We show a right unitary transformation approach based on Susskind-Glogower operators that diagonalizes a generalized Dicke Hamiltonian in the field basis and delivers a tridiagonal Hamiltonian in the Dicke basis. This tridiagonal Hamiltonian is diagonalized by a set of orthogonal polynomials satisfying a three-term recurrence relation. Our result is used to deliver a closed form, analytic time evolution for the case of a Jaynes-Cummings-Kerr model and to study the time evolution of the population inversion, reduced field entropy, and Husimi's Q-function of the field for ensembles of interacting two-level systems under a Dicke-Kerr model.

id: 1207.6552
title: A photonic crystal realization of a phase driven two-level atom
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, Alejandro Z¨¢rate C¨¢rdenas, Francisco Soto-Eguibar, H¨¦ctor Manuel Moya-Cessa
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt. Commun. 292, 87-91 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6552
abstract: We propose a set of photonic crystals that realize a nonlinear quantum Rabi model equivalent to a two-level system driven by the phase of a quantized electromagnetic field. The crystals are exactly soluble in the weak-coupling regime and their dispersion relation is discrete. The system is diagonalized by normal modes equivalent to a dressed state basis. In the strong-coupling regime, we use perturbation theory and find that the dispersion relation is continuous and give the normal modes of the crystal in terms of continued fractions. We show that these photonic crystals allow state reconstruction in the form of coherent oscillations in the weak-coupling regime.

id: 1207.6554
title: Collision-model-based approach to non-Markovian quantum dynamics
authors: F. Ciccarello, G. M. Palma, V. Giovannetti
comments: 5+1 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 040103(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6554
abstract: We present a theoretical framework to tackle quantum non-Markovian dynamics based on a microscopic collision model (CM), where the bath consists of a large collection of initially uncorrelated ancillas. Unlike standard memoryless CMs, we endow the bath with memory by introducing inter-ancillary collisions between next system-ancilla interactions. Our model interpolates between a fully Markovian dynamics and the continuous interaction of the system with a single ancilla, i.e., a strongly non-Markovian process. We show that in the continuos limit one can derive a general master equation, which while keeping such features is guaranteed to describe an unconditionally completely positive and trace-preserving dynamics. We apply our theory to an atom in a dissipative cavity for a Lorentzian spectral density of bath modes, a dynamics which can be exactly solved. The predicted evolution shows a significant improvement in approaching the exact solution with respect to two well-known memory-kernel master equations.

id: 1207.6562
title: Predominance of entanglement of formation over quantum discord under quantum channels
authors: Steve Campbell
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Quantum Inf. Process, Vol. 12, Issue 7, pp 2623-2636 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6562
abstract: We present a study of the behavior of two different figures of merit for quantum correlations, entanglement of formation and quantum discord, under quantum channels showing how the former can, counterintuitively, be more resilient to such environments spoiling effects. By exploiting strict conservation relations between the two measures and imposing necessary constraints on the initial conditions we are able to explicitly show this predominance is related to build-up of the system-environment correlations.

id: 1207.6586
title: Cross time-bin photonic entanglement for quantum key distribution
authors: A. Martin, F. Kaiser, A. Vernier, A. Beveratos, V. Scarani, S. Tanzilli
comments: 5 pages, double column, 3 captioned figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 020301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6586
abstract: We report a fully fibered source emitting cross time-bin entangled photons at 1540 nm from type-II spontaneous parametric down conversion. Compared to standard time-bin entanglement realizations, the preparation interferometer requires no phase stabilization, simplifying its implementation in quantum key distribution experiments. Franson/Bell-type tests of such a cross time-bin state are performed and lead to two-photon interference raw visibilities greater than 95%, which are only limited by the dark-counts in the detectors and imperfections in the analysis system. Just by trusting the randomness of the beam-splitters, the correlations generated by the source can be proved of non-classical origin even in a passive implementation. The obtained results confirm the suitability of this source for time-bin based quantum key distribution.

id: 1207.6590
title: A primer for resonant tunnelling
authors: J¨¦r¨¦my Le Deunff, Olivier Brodier, Amaury Mouchet
comments: accepted to EJP, 19 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6590
abstract: Resonant tunnelling is studied numerically and analytically with the help of a three-well quantum one-dimensional time-independent model. The simplest cases are considered where the three-well potential is polynomial or piecewise constant.

id: 1207.6629
title: Quantum decoherence in a pragmatist view: Part I
authors: Richard Healey
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6629
abstract: The quantum theory of decoherence plays an important role in a pragmatist interpretation of quantum theory. It governs the descriptive content of claims about values of physical magnitudes and offers advice on when to use quantum probabilities as a guide to their truth. The content of a claim is to be understood in terms of its role in inferences. This promises a better treatment of meaning than that of Bohr. Quantum theory models physical systems with no mention of measurement: it is decoherence, not measurement, that licenses application of Born's probability rule. So quantum theory also offers advice on its own application. I show how this works in a simple model of decoherence, and then in applications to both laboratory experiments and natural systems. Applications to quantum field theory and the measurement problem will be discussed elsewhere.

id: 1207.6655
title: A 2D Nearest-Neighbor Quantum Architecture for Factoring in Polylogarithmic Depth
authors: Paul Pham, Krysta M. Svore
comments: 29 pages, 14 figures, 3 tables, presented at Reversible Computation Workshop 2012 in Copenhagen. Updated with numerical circuit resource upper bounds and constant-depth quantum unfanout
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 13(11 & 12): 937-962(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6655
abstract: We contribute a 2D nearest-neighbor quantum architecture for Shor's algorithm to factor an $n$-bit number in $O(\log^2(n))$ depth. Our implementation uses parallel phase estimation, constant-depth fanout and teleportation, and constant-depth carry-save modular addition. We derive upper bounds on the circuit resources of our architecture under a new 2D nearest-neighbor model which allows a classical controller and parallel, communicating modules. We also contribute a novel constant-depth circuit for unbounded quantum unfanout in our new model. Finally, we provide a comparison to all previous nearest-neighbor factoring implementations. Our circuit results in an exponential improvement in nearest-neighbor circuit depth at the cost of a polynomial increase in circuit size and width.

id: 1207.6739
title: Quantum protocols for the millionaire problem with a third party are trivial
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: The protocol is further improved so that it remains secure even if the third party is distrustful
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inform. 11, 1350025 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6739
abstract: Recently there were many quantum protocols devoted to solve the millionaire problem and private comparison problem by adding a semi-honest third party. They all require complicated quantum methods, while still leak a non-trivial amount of information to at least one of the parties. But it will be shown here that once the third party is introduced, there are very simple protocols which require quantum key distribution as the only quantum resource, and the amount of information leaked can be made arbitrarily small. Furthermore, even a dishonest third party cannot spoil the protocols. Thus our solutions surpass all existing protocols on both feasibility and security.

id: 1207.6748
title: Coherent Diffusion of Polaritons in Atomic Media
authors: Ofer Firstenberg, Moshe Shuker, Amiram Ron, Nir Davidson
comments: Submitted to Review of Modern Physics
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 85, 941-960 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6748
abstract: Coherent diffusion pertains to the motion of atomic dipoles experiencing frequent collisions in vapor while maintaining their coherence. Recent theoretical and experimental studies on the effect of coherent diffusion on key Raman processes, namely Raman spectroscopy, slow polariton propagation, and stored light, are reviewed in this Colloquium.

id: 1207.6768
title: Fast quantum information transfer with superconducting flux qubits coupled to a cavity
authors: Chui-Ping Yang
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 205304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6768
abstract: We present a way to realize quantum information transfer with superconducting flux qubits coupled to a cavity. Because only resonant qubit-cavity interaction and resonant qubit-pulse interaction are applied, the information transfer can be performed much faster, when compared with the previous proposals. This proposal does not require adjustment of the qubit level spacings during the operation. Moreover, neither uniformity in the device parameters nor exact placement of qubits in the cavity is needed by this proposal.

id: 1207.6772
title: Squeezing of Collective Excitations in Spin Ensembles
authors: Christian Kraglund Andersen, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6772
abstract: We analyse the possibility to create two-mode spin squeezed states of two separate spin ensembles by inverting the spins in one ensemble and allowing spin exchange between the ensembles via a near resonant cavity field. We investigate the dynamics of the system using a combination of numerical and analytic calculations, and we obtain squeezing for a wide range of parameters. We also investigate the transfer of the squeezing properties to the cavity field and to an output mode from the cavity. Finally, we investigate how the squeezing is affected by effects of inhomogeneities which would be present in solid state implementations of the spin ensembles.

id: 1207.6809
title: Perturbative approach to diatomic lattices
authors: Francisco Soto-Eguibar, H¨¦ctor Manuel Moya-Cessa
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 10, No. 6 (2012) 1250072 (9 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6809
abstract: By using a small rotation approach, we show that it is possible to obtain well behaved perturbed solutions for the amplitude of the electromagnetic field propagating in a photonic waveguide array. This array mimics the propagation of a quasiparticle among the sites of an infinite one-dimensional chain.

id: 1207.6872
title: Thermodynamic Work Gain from Entanglement
authors: Ken Funo, Yu Watanabe, Masahito Ueda
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052319 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6872
abstract: We show that entanglement can be utilized to extract thermodynamic work beyond classical correlation via feedback control based on measurement on part of a composite system. The net work gain due to entanglement is determined by the change in the mutual information content between the subsystems that is accessible by the memory.

id: 1207.6881
title: Noise Spectroscopy Using Correlations of Single-Shot Qubit Readout
authors: Thomas Fink, Hendrik Bluhm
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6881
abstract: A better understanding of the noise causing qubit decoherence is crucial for improving qubit performance. The noise spectrum affecting the qubit may be extracted by measuring dephasing under the application of pulse sequences but requires accurate qubit control and sufficiently long relaxation times, which are not always available. Here, we describe an alternative method to extract the spectrum from correlations of single-shot measurement outcomes of successive free induction decays. This method only requires qubit initialization and readout with a moderate fidelity and also allows independent tuning of both the overall sensitivity and the frequency region over which it is sensitive. Thus, it is possible to maintain a good detection contrast over a very wide frequency range. We discuss using our method for measuring both $1/f$ noise and the fluctuation spectrum of the nuclear bath of GaAs spin qubits.

id: 1207.6891
title: An algorithmic proof for the completeness of two-dimensional Ising model
authors: V. Karimipour, M. H. Zarei
comments: 18 pages, 15 figures, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6891
abstract: We show that the two dimensional Ising model is complete, in the sense that the partition function of any lattice model on any graph is equal to the partition function of the 2D Ising model with complex coupling. The latter model has all its spin-spin coupling equal to i\pi/4 and all the parameters of the original model are contained in the local magnetic fields of the Ising model. This result has already been derived by using techniques from quantum information theory and by exploiting the universality of cluster states. Here we do not use the quantum formalism and hence make the completeness result accessible to a wide audience. Furthermore our method has the advantage of being algorithmic in nature so that by following a set of simple graphical transformations, one is able to transform any discrete lattice model to an Ising model defined on a (polynomially) larger 2D lattice.

id: 1207.6896
title: Reciprocity and unitarity in scattering from a non-Hermitian complex PT-symmetric potential
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: 7 pages. no figures and no tables, two corrections, appeared in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Z.Ahmed, Phys. Lett. A 377 (2013) 957
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6896
abstract: In quantum scattering, Hermiticity is necessary for both reciprocity and unitarity. Reciprocity means that both reflectivity (R) and transmitivity (T) are insensitive to the direction of incidence of a wave (particle) at a scatterer from left/right. Unitarity means that R+T=1. In scattering from non-Hermitian PT-symmetric structures the (left/right) handedness (non-reciprocity) of reflectivity is known to be essential and unitarity remains elusive so far. Here we present a surprising occurrence of both reciprocity and unitarity in scattering from a complex PT-symmetric potential. In special cases, we show that this potential can even become invisible (R=0, T=1) from both left and right sides. We also find that this potential in a parametric regime enjoys a pseudo-unitarity of the type $T+\sqrt{R_{left}R_{right}}=1$.

id: 1207.6906
title: How statistical are quantum states?
authors: O. J. E. Maroney
comments: 5 pages. Noise tolerant calculation removed in favour of better calculation in forthcoming article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6906
abstract: A novel no-go theorem is presented which sets a bound upon the extent to which '\Psi-epistemic' interpretations of quantum theory are able to explain the overlap between non-orthogonal quantum states in terms of an experimenter's ignorance of an underlying state of reality. The theorem applies to any Hilbert space of dimension greater than two. In the limit of large Hilbert spaces, no more than half of the overlap between quantum states can be accounted for. Unlike other recent no-go theorems no additional assumptions, such as forms of locality, invasiveness, or non-contextuality, are required.

id: 1207.6909
title: Wigner distribution functions for complex dynamical systems: a path integral approach
authors: Dries Sels, Fons Brosens, Wim Magnus
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6909
abstract: Starting from Feynman's Lagrangian description of quantum mechanics, we propose a method to construct explicitly the propagator for the Wigner distribution function of a single system. For general quadratic Lagrangians, only the classical phase space trajectory is found to contribute to the propagator. Inspired by Feynman's and Vernon's influence functional theory we extend the method to calculate the propagator for the reduced Wigner function of a system of interest coupled to an external system. Explicit expressions are obtained when the external system consists of a set of independent harmonic oscillators. As an example we calculate the propagator for the reduced Wigner function associated with the Caldeira-Legett model.

id: 1207.6931
title: Impact of turbulence in long range quantum and classical communications
authors: I. Capraro, A. Tomaello, A. Dall'Arche, F. Gerlin, R. Ursin, G. Vallone, P. Villoresi
comments: 5 Pages, 5 figures, 1 Table, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 200502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6931
abstract: The study of the free-space distribution of quantum correlations is necessary for any future application of quantum as classical communication aiming to connect two remote locations. Here we study the propagation of a coherent laser beam over 143 Km (between Tenerife and La Palma Islands of the Canary archipelagos). By attenuating the beam we also studied the propagation at the single photon level. We investigated the statistic of arrival of the incoming photons and the scintillation of the beam. From the analysis of the data, we propose the exploitation of turbulence to improve the SNR of the signal.

id: 1207.6932
title: Dimensionality of the spatio-temporal entanglement of PDC photon pairs
authors: A. Gatti, T. Corti, E. Brambilla, D. B. Horoshko
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: PHYS. REV. A 86, 053803 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6932
abstract: In this work the Schmidt number of the two-photon state generated by parametric-down conversion (PDC) is evaluated in the framework of a fully spatio-temporal model for PDC. A comparison with the results obtained in either purely spatial or purely temporal models shows that the degree of entanglement of the PDC state cannot be trivially reduced to the product of the Schmidt numbers obtained in models with lower dimensionality, unless the detected bandwidth is very narrow. This result is a consequence of the non-factorability of the state in the spatial and temporal degrees of freedoms of twin photons. In the limit of a broad pump beam, we provide a geometrical interpretation of the Schmidt number, as the ratio between the volume of the phase matching region and of a correlation volume.

id: 1207.6954
title: Cooperative quantum Parrondo's games
authors: ?ukasz Pawela, Jan S?adkowski
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6954
abstract: Coordination and cooperation are among the most important issues of game theory. Recently, the attention turned to game theory on graphs and social networks. Encouraged by interesting results obtained in quantum evolutionary game analysis, we study cooperative Parrondo's games in a quantum setup. The game is modeled using multidimensional quantum random walks with biased coins. We use the GHZ and W entangled states as the initial state of the coins. Our analysis shows than an apparent paradox in cooperative quantum games and some interesting phenomena can be observed.

id: 1207.6985
title: Fundamental Insecurity of Multi-Photon Sources Under Photon-Number Splitting Attacks in Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6985
abstract: A simple photon-number splitting attack is described which works on any lossy quantum key distribution system with a multi-photon source independently of the mean source photon number, and with no induced error rate. In particular, it cannot be detected by decoy states. The quantitative loss of security is similar when the user employs photon-number resolving detectors or threshold detectors. Numerical values indicate that existing implementations of concrete QKD systems are fundamentally insecure against this attack because a large portion of leaked sifted key bits is not accounted for. The possibility of other damaging photon-number splitting attacks is discussed. Some morals will be drawn.

id: 1207.6992
title: Real-time characterization of gated-mode single-photon detectors
authors: T. Ferreira da Silva, G. B. Xavier, J. P. von der Weid
comments: 
journal: IEEE J. Quantum Electron. 47, 1251-1256 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6992
abstract: We propose a characterization method for the overall detection efficiency, afterpulse and dark count probabilities of single-photon counting modules in real-time with simple instrumentation. This method can be applied when the module is running in its intended application, and is based on monitoring the statistics of the times between consecutive detections. A mathematical model is derived and fit to the data statistical distribution to simultaneously extract the characterization parameters. The feasibility of our scheme is demonstrated by performing measurements on three commercial devices based on cooled InGaAs APD operating in gated mode. Different statistical ensemble lengths were analyzed and results assess the scheme for real-time application.

id: 1207.6995
title: Exact dynamics of interacting qubits in a thermal environment: Results beyond the weak coupling limit
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Claire X. Yu, Dvira Segal
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15 023044 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6995
abstract: We demonstrate an exact mapping of a class of models of two interacting qubits in thermal reservoirs to two separate spin-bath problems. Based on this mapping, exact numerical simulations of the qubits dynamics can be performed, beyond the weak system-bath coupling limit. Given the time evolution of the system, we study, in a numerically exact way, the dynamics of entanglement between pair of qubits immersed in boson thermal baths, showing a rich phenomenology, including an intermediate oscillatory behavior, the entanglement sudden birth, sudden death, and revival. We find that stationary entanglement develops between the qubits due to their coupling to a thermal environment, unlike the isolated qubits case in which the entanglement oscillates. We also show that the occurrence of entanglement sudden death in this model depends on the portion of the zero and double excitation states in the subsystem initial state. In the long-time limit, analytic expressions are presented at weak system-bath coupling, for a range of relevant qubit parameters.

id: 1207.7022
title: Environment-induced heating in sonoluminescence experiments
authors: Almut Beige, Antonio Capolupo, Andreas Kurcz
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, Proceedings of the 8th International Symposium on Cavitation in Singapore
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7022
abstract: This paper discusses a quantum optical heating mechanism which might play an important role in sonoluminescence experiments. We suggest that this mechanism occurs during the final stages of the bubble collapse phase and accompanies the thermodynamic heating due to the compression of the bubble. More concretely, it is shown that a weak but highly inhomogeneous electric field, as it occurs naturally during rapid bubble deformations, can increase the temperature of strongly confined particles by several orders of magnitude on a nanosecond time scale [A. Kurcz et al., New J. Phys. 11, 053001 (2009)]. Our model suggests that it is possible to control sonoluminescence experiments in ionic liquids with the help of appropriately detuned laser fields.

id: 1207.7064
title: How to use quantum theory locally to explain "non-local" correlations
authors: Richard Healey
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7064
abstract: J.S. Bell's work has convinced many that correlations in violation of CHSH inequalities show that the world itself is non-local, and that there is an apparently essential conflict between any sharp formulation of quantum theory and relativity. Against this consensus, this paper argues that there is no conflict between quantum theory and relativity. Quantum theory itself helps us explain such (otherwise) puzzling correlations in a way that contradicts neither Bell's intuitive locality principle nor his local causality condition. The argument depends on understanding quantum theory along pragmatist lines, and on a more general view of how that theory helps us explain. Quantum theory is compatible with Bell's intuitive locality principle and with his local causality condition not because it conforms to them, but because they are simply inapplicable to quantum theory, as so understood.

id: 1207.7065
title: Fast quantum gate with superconducting flux qubits coupled to a cavity
authors: Chui-Ping Yang
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1207.6768
journal: Progress of Theoretical Physics 127, 781 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7065
abstract: We present a way for fast implementation of a two-qubit controlled phase gate with superconducting flux qubits coupled to a cavity. A distinct feature of this proposal is that since only qubit-cavity resonant interaction and qubit-pulse resonant interaction are used, the gate can be performed much faster when compared with the previous proposals. This proposal does not require adjustment of the qubit level spacings during the gate operation. In addition, neither uniformity in the qubit parameters nor exact placement of qubits in the cavity is needed by this proposal.

id: 1207.7069
title: On the uncertainty relations for an electron in a constant magnetic field
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7069
abstract: We discuss the uncertainty relation for the azimuthal angle $\phi$ and the $z$-component of the angular momentum $L_z$. To this end we derive the uncertainty relation for an arbitrary pair of observables and discuss the conditions for its validity. By means of a simple parameter-dependent state we illustrate the well known fact that the standard uncertainty relation for the coordinate and its conjugate momentum does not apply the pair of observables $\phi-L_z$. This analysis is motivated by a discussion of the motion of an electron in a constant magnetic field appeared recently in this journal (Eur. J. Phys. \textbf{33} (2012) 1147) where the author assumed the validity of the standard uncertainty relation for the pair $\phi-L_z$.

id: 1207.7088
title: Full transmission within a wide energy range and super-criticality in relativistic barrier scattering
authors: A. D. Alhaidari, H. Bahlouli, Y. Benabderahmane, A. Jellal
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, 1 table, 1 video animation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052113 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7088
abstract: For potential barriers with scalar and vector coupling, we show that a Dirac particle could experience nearly full transmission within a wide sub-barrier energy band. Moreover, for certain potential configurations, including pseudo-spin symmetry where the scalar potential is the negative of the vector, full transmission occurs for arbitrarily small momentum.

id: 1207.7105
title: Quantum decoherence in a pragmatist view: Resolving the measurement problem
authors: Richard Healey
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7105
abstract: This paper aims to show how adoption of a pragmatist interpretation permits a satisfactory resolution of the quantum measurement problem. The classic measurement problem dissolves once one recognizes that it is not the function of the quantum state to describe or represent the behavior of a quantum system. The residual problem of when, and to what, to apply the Born Rule may then be resolved by judicious appeal to decoherence. This can give sense to talk of measurements of photons and other particles even though quantum field theory does not describe particles.

id: 1207.7106
title: Observation and Quantum Objectivity
authors: Richard Healey
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7106
abstract: The paradox of Wigner's friend challenges the objectivity of description in quantum theory. A pragmatist interpretation can meet this challenge by judicious appeal to decoherence. On this interpretation, quantum theory provides situated agents with resources for predicting and explaining what happens in the physical world---not conscious observations of it. Even in Wigner's friend scenarios, differently situated agents agree on the objective content of statements about the values of physical magnitudes. In more realistic circumstances quantum Darwinism also permits differently situated agents equal observational access to evaluate their truth. In this view, quantum theory has nothing to say about consciousness or conscious experiences of observers. But it does prompt us to reexamine the significance even of everyday claims about the physical world.

id: 1207.7111
title: Algorithmic Cooling of a Quantum Simulator
authors: Dvir Kafri, Jacob M. Taylor
comments: 41 pages, 2 figues
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7111
abstract: Controlled quantum mechanical devices provide a means of simulating more complex quantum systems exponentially faster than classical computers. Such "quantum simulators" rely heavily upon being able to prepare the ground state of Hamiltonians, whose properties can be used to calculate correlation functions or even the solution to certain classical computations. While adiabatic preparation remains the primary means of producing such ground states, here we provide a different avenue of preparation: cooling to the ground state via simulated dissipation. This is in direct analogy to contemporary efforts to realize generalized forms of simulated annealing in quantum systems.

id: 1207.7127
title: Quantifying the Nonclassicality of Operations
authors: Sebastian Meznaric, Stephen R. Clark, Animesh Datta
comments: Published version, 5 pages, 3 figures plus 4 pages of Supplementary Material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 070502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7127
abstract: Deep insight can be gained into the nature of nonclassical correlations by studying the quantum operations that create them. Motivated by this we propose a measure of nonclassicality of a quantum operation utilizing the relative entropy to quantify its commutativity with the completely dephasing operation. We show that our measure of nonclassicality is a sum of two independent contributions, the generating power -- its ability to produce nonclassical states out of classical ones, and the distinguishing power -- its usefulness to a classical observer for distinguishing between classical and nonclassical states. Each of these effects can be exploited individually in quantum protocols. We further show that our measure leads to an interpretation of quantum discord as the difference in superdense coding capacities between a quantum state and the best classical state when both are produced at a source that makes a classical error during transmission.

id: 1207.7143
title: Discretely-observable continuous time quantum walks on M?bius strips and other exotic structures in 3D integrated photonics
authors: Michael Delanty, M. J. Steel
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7143
abstract: We theoretically analyze the dynamical evolution of photonic quantum walks on M\"obius strips and other exotic structures in 3D integrated photonics. Our flexible design allows discrete observations of continuous time quantum walks of photons in a variety of waveguide arrays. Furthermore, our design allows one to inject photons during the evolution, allowing the possibility of interacting with the photons as they are 'walking'. We find that non-trivial array topologies introduce novel time-dependent symmetries of the two-photon correlations. These properties allow a large degree of control for quantum state engineering of multimode entangled states in these devices.

id: 1207.7174
title: Non-Canonical Statistics of a Spin-Boson Model: Theory and Exact Monte-Carlo Simulations
authors: Chee Kong Lee, Jianshu Cao, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E. Vol. 86, 021109 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7174
abstract: Equilibrium canonical distribution in statistical mechanics assumes weak system-bath coupling (SBC). In real physical situations this assumption can be invalid and equilibrium quantum statistics of the system may be non-canonical. By exploiting both polaron transformation and perturbation theory in a spin-boson model, an analytical treatment is advocated to study non-canonical statistics of a two-level system at arbitrary temperature and for arbitrary SBC strength, yielding theoretical results in agreement with exact Monte-Carlo simulations. In particular, the eigen-representation of system's reduced density matrix is used to quantify non-canonical statistics as well as the quantumness of the open system. For example, it is found that irrespective of SBC strength, non-canonical statistics enhances as temperature decreases but vanishes at high temperature.

id: 1207.7192
title: A brief note on epistemic interpretations and the Kochen-Specker theorem
authors: O. J. E. Maroney
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7192
abstract: One of the recent no-go theorems on \Psi-epistemic interpretations of quantum proves that there are no 'maximally epistemic' interpretations of quantum theory. The proof utilises similar arrangements to Clifton's quantum contextuality proof and has parallels to Harrigan and Rudolph's quantum deficiency no-go theorem, itself based on the Kochen-Specker quantum contextuality proof. This paper shows how the Kochen-Specker theorem can also be turned into a no 'maximally epistemic' theorem, but of a more limited kind.

id: 1207.7206
title: Simultaneous elements of reality for incompatible properties by exploiting locality
authors: Angela Sestito
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7206
abstract: We show that the extensions of quantum correlations stemming from a "strict" interpretation of the criterion of reality of Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen raise the inadequacy of their ideal experiment for the assignment of simultaneous elements of reality to two incompatible properties. Then, we suggest a different physical situation enabling the simultaneous assignment of objective values of two incompatible observables of a spin particle by means of measurements of two compatible properties of a second correlated spin particle.

id: 1207.7224
title: Experimental analysis of decoherence of quantumness in a continuous variables bi-partite entangled system
authors: D. Buono, G. Nocerino, A. Porzio, S. Solimeno
comments: 17 pages, one column, revtex, 8 figures to appear on Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042308 (2012) [12 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7224
abstract: Quantum properties are soon subject to decoherence once the quantum system interacts with the classical environment. In this paper we experimentally test how propagation losses, in a Gaussian channel, affect the bi-partite Gaussian entangled state generated by a sub-threshold type-II optical parametric oscillator (OPO). Experimental results are discussed in terms of different quantum markers, as teleportation fidelity, quantum discord and mutual information, and continuous variables (CV) entanglement criteria. To analyse state properties we have retrieved the composite system covariance matrix by a single homodyne detector. We experimentally found that, even in presence of a strong decoherence, the generated state never disentangles and keeps breaking the quantum limit for the discord. This result proves that the class of CV entangled states discussed in this paper would allow, in principle, to realize quantum teleportation over an infinitely long Gaussian channel.

id: 1207.7226
title: An Operational Meaning of Discord in terms of Teleportation Fidelity
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 5 pages and 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062313 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7226
abstract: Quantum discord is a prominent measure of quantum correlations, playing an important role in expanding its horizon beyond entanglement. Here we provide an operational meaning of (geometric) discord, which quantifies the amount of non-classical correlation of an arbitrary quantum system in terms of its minimal distance from the set of classical states, in terms of teleportation fidelity for general two qubit and $d \otimes d$ dimensional isotropic and Werner states. A critical value of the discord is found beyond which the two qubit state must violate the Bell inequality. This is illustrated by an open system model of a dissipative two qubit. For the $d \otimes d$ dimensional states the lower bound of discord is shown to be obtainable from an experimentally measurable witness operator.

id: 1207.7265
title: Experimental demonstration of an entanglement-based quantum router
authors: X.-Y. Chang, Y.-X. Wang, C. Zu, K. Liu, L.-M. Duan
comments: "This paper has been withdrawn and it will be replaced by a new experiment that does not require prior entanglement between the control and the data photons."
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7265
abstract: We report an experiment that demonstrates full function of a quantum router using entangled photons, where the paths of a single-photon pulse are controlled in a coherent fashion by polarization of another single photon. Through a projective measurement, we prepare the polarization of the control photon in arbitrary superposition states, leading to coherent routing of the target photon in quantum superposition of different paths. We demonstrate quantum nature of this router through optical measurements based on quantum state tomography and show an average fidelity of $(93.24\pm 0.23)%$ for the quantum routing operation.

id: 1207.7272
title: Mimicking interacting relativistic theories with stationary pulses of light
authors: Dimitris G. Angelakis, MingXia Huo, Darrick Chang, Leong Chuan Kwek, Vladimir Korepin
comments: 6 pages with 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 100502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7272
abstract: One of the most well known relativistic field theory models is the Thirring model (TM). Its realization can demonstrate the famous prediction for the renormalization of mass due to interactions. However, experimental verification of the latter requires complex accelerator experiments whereas analytical solutions of the model can be extremely cumbersome to obtain. In this work, following Feynman's original proposal, we propose a alternative quantum system as a simulator of the TM dynamics. Here the relativistic particles are mimicked, counter-intuitively, by polarized photons in a quantum nonlinear medium. We show that the entire set of regimes of the Thirring model -- bosonic or fermionic, and massless or massive -- can be faithfully reproduced using coherent light trapping techniques. The sought after correlations' scalings can be extracted by simple probing of the coherence functions of the light using standard optical techniques.

id: 1207.7281
title: Noise Analysis for two Quantum Cryptography Protocols
authors: Sindhu Chitikela
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7281
abstract: This paper presents noise analysis for the two-stage and the three-stage quantum cryptographic protocols based on random polarization rotations. The noise model used is that of uniform distribution of error over a certain small range that is associated with each link without regard for the source of the error. The noise in different links is taken to be independent. Advantages of the use of these protocols in low intensity laser systems are given.

id: 1207.7283
title: Quantum Walks
authors: Daniel Reitzner, Daniel Nagaj, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 124 pages, some typos corrected and sentences rephrased
journal: Acta Physica Slovaca 61, No.6, 603-725 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7283
abstract: This tutorial article showcases the many varieties and uses of quantum walks. Discrete time quantum walks are introduced as counterparts of classical random walks. The emphasis is on the connections and differences between the two types of processes (with rather different underlying dynamics) for producing random distributions. We discuss algorithmic applications for graph-searching and compare the two approaches. Next, we look at quantization of Markov chains and show how it can lead to speedups for sampling schemes. Finally, we turn to continuous time quantum walks and their applications, which provide interesting (even exponential) speedups over classical approaches.

id: 1207.7340
title: C\ast-geometric phase for mixed states: entanglement, decoherence and spin system
authors: David Viennot, Jos¨¦ Lages
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 365305 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7340
abstract: We study a kind of geometric phases for entangled quantum systems, and particularly a spin driven by a magnetic field and entangled with another spin. The new kind of geometric phase is based on an analogy between open quantum systems and dissipative quantum systems which uses a C\ast-module structure. We show that the system presents from the viewpoint of their geometric phases, two behaviours. The first one is identical to the behaviour of an isolated spin driven by a magnetic field, as the problem originally treated by Berry. The second one is specific to the decoherence process. The gauge structures induced by these geometric phases are then similar to a magnetic monopole gauge structure for the first case, and can be viewed as a kind of instanton gauge structure for the second case. We study the role of these geometric phases in the evolution of a mixed state, particularly by focusing on the evolution of the density matrix coherence. We investigate also the relation between the geometric phase of the mixed state of one of the entangled systems and the geometric phase of the bipartite system.

id: 1207.0058
title: Quantum Brownian motion and a theorem on fundamental 1/f noise
authors: Yu.E.Kuzovlev
comments: 10 pages, no figures, latex2e iopart
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0058
abstract: We consider quantum Hamiltonian systems composed of mutually interacting "dynamical subsystem" with one or several degrees of freedom and "thermostat" with arbitrary many degrees of freedom, under assumptions that the interaction ensures irreversible behavior of the dynamical subsystem, that is finite diffusivities of its coordinates in thermodynamically equilibrium state and finite drift velocities and mobilities in non-equilibrium steady state in presence of external driving forces. It is shown that, nevertheless, regardless of characteristics of the interaction, the diffusivity and mobility have no certain values but instead vary from one observation to another and undergo 1/f-type or flicker-type low-frequency fluctuations.

id: 1207.0081
title: Ultrahigh Bandwidth Spin Noise Spectroscopy: Detection of Large g-Factor Fluctuations in Highly n-Doped GaAs
authors: Fabian Berski, Hendrik Kuhn, Jan G. Lonnemann, Jens H¨¹bner, Michael Oestreich
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0081
abstract: We advance all optical spin noise spectroscopy (SNS) in semiconductors to detection bandwidths of several hundred gigahertz by employing an ingenious scheme of pulse trains from ultrafast laser oscillators as an optical probe. The ultrafast SNS technique avoids the need for optical pumping and enables nearly perturbation free measurements of extremely short spin dephasing times. We employ the technique to highly n-doped bulk GaAs where magnetic field dependent measurements show unexpected large g-factor fluctuations. Calculations suggest that such large g-factor fluctuations do not necessarily result from extrinsic sample variations but are intrinsically present in every doped semiconductor due to the stochastic nature of the dopant distribution.

id: 1207.0088
title: Large-Scale Schr?dinger-Cat States and Majorana Bound States in Coupled Circuit-QED Systems
authors: Myung-Joong Hwang, Mahn-Soo Choi
comments: 5 pages; 2 figures; incorrect references corrected; typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0088
abstract: We have studied the low-lying excitations of a chain of coupled circuit-QED systems, and report several intriguing properties of its two nearly degenerate ground states. The ground states are Schr\"odinger cat states at a truly large scale, involving maximal entanglement between the resonator and the qubit, and are mathematically equivalent to Majorana bound states. With a suitable design of physical qubits, they are protected against local fluctuations and constitute a non-local qubit. Further, they can be probed and manipulated coherently by attaching an empty resonator to one end of the circuit-QED chain.

id: 1207.0407
title: What is Statistics?; The Answer by Quantum Language
authors: Shiro Ishikawa
comments: 15 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1204.3892
journal: 
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Statistics (stat.OT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0407
abstract: Since the problem: "What is statistics?" is most fundamental in sceince, in order to solve this problem, there is every reason to believe that we have to start from the proposal of a worldview. Recently we proposed measurement theory (i.e., quantum language, or the linguistic interpretation of quantum mechanics), which is characterized as the linguistic turn of the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics. This turn from physics to language does not only extend quantum theory to classical theory but also yield the quantum mechanical world view (i.e., the (quantum) linguistic world view, and thus, a form of quantum thinking, in other words, quantum philosophy). Thus, we believe that the quantum lingistic formulation of statistics gives an answer to the question: "What is statistics?". In this paper, this will be done through the studies of inference interval, statistical hypothesis testing, Fisher maximum likelihood method, Bayes method and regression analysis in meaurement theory.

id: 1207.0501
title: Decay of a superfluid current of ultra-cold atoms in a toroidal trap
authors: Amy C. Mathey, Charles W. Clark, L. Mathey
comments: 15 pages. 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023604 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0501
abstract: Using a numerical implementation of the truncated Wigner approximation, we simulate the experiment reported by Ramanathan et al. in Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 130401 (2011), in which a Bose-Einstein condensate is created in a toroidal trap and set into rotation via a phase imprinting technique. A potential barrier is then placed in the trap to study the decay of the superflow. We find that the current decays via thermally activated phase slips, which can also be visualized as vortices crossing the barrier region in the radial direction. Adopting the notion of critical velocity used in the experiment, we determine it to be lower than the local speed of sound at the barrier, in contradiction to the predictions of the zero-temperature Gross-Pitaevskii equation. We map out the superfluid decay rate and critical velocity as a function of temperature and observe a strong dependence. Thermal fluctuations offer a partial explanation of the experimentally observed reduction of the critical velocity from the phonon velocity.

id: 1207.0541
title: Significant Conditions on the Two-electron Reduced Density Matrix from the Constructive Solution of N-representability
authors: David A. Mazziotti
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062507 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0541
abstract: We recently presented a constructive solution to the N-representability problem of the two-electron reduced density matrix (2-RDM)---a systematic approach to constructing complete conditions to ensure that the 2-RDM represents a realistic N-electron quantum system [D. A. Mazziotti, Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 263002 (2012)]. In this paper we provide additional details and derive further N-representability conditions on the 2-RDM that follow from the constructive solution. The resulting conditions can be classified into a hierarchy of constraints, known as the (2,q)-positivity conditions where the q indicates their derivation from the nonnegativity of q-body operators. In addition to the known T1 and T2 conditions, we derive a new class of (2,3)-positivity conditions. We also derive 3 classes of (2,4)-positivity conditions, 6 classes of (2,5)-positivity conditions, and 24 classes of (2,6)-positivity conditions. The constraints obtained can be divided into two general types: (i) lifting conditions, that is conditions which arise from lifting lower (2,q)-positivity conditions to higher (2,q+1)-positivity conditions and (ii) pure conditions, that is conditions which cannot be derived from a simple lifting of the lower conditions. All of the lifting conditions and the pure (2,q)-positivity conditions for q>3 require tensor decompositions of the coefficients in the model Hamiltonians. Subsets of the new N-representability conditions can be employed with the previously known conditions to achieve polynomially scaling calculations of ground-state energies and 2-RDMs of many-electron quantum systems even in the presence of strong electron correlation.

id: 1207.0650
title: 3D optical manipulation of a single electron spin
authors: Michael Geiselmann, Mathieu Juan, Jan Renger, Jana M. Say, Louise J. Brown, F. Javier Garc¨ªa de Abajo, Frank Koppens, Romain Quidant
comments: 
journal: Nature Nanotechnology 8, 175 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0650
abstract: Nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers in diamond are promising elemental blocks for quantum optics [1, 2], spin-based quantum information processing [3, 4], and high-resolution sensing [5-13]. Yet, fully exploiting these capabilities of single NV centers requires strategies to accurately manipulate them. Here, we use optical tweezers as a tool to achieve deterministic trapping and 3D spatial manipulation of individual nano-diamonds hosting a single NV spin. Remarkably, we find the NV axis is nearly fixed inside the trap and can be controlled in-situ, by adjusting the polarization of the trapping light. By combining this unique spatial and angular control with coherent manipulation of the NV spin and fluorescent lifetime measurements near an integrated photonic system, we prove optically trapped NV center as a novel route for both 3D vectorial magnetometry and sensing of the local density of optical states.

id: 1207.0691
title: Variational Matrix Product Ansatz for Nonuniform Dynamics in the Thermodynamic Limit
authors: Ashley Milsted, Jutho Haegeman, Tobias J. Osborne, Frank Verstraete
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, tensor network diagrams. Code available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 155116 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0691
abstract: We describe how to implement the time-dependent variational principle for matrix product states in the thermodynamic limit for nonuniform lattice systems. This is achieved by confining the nonuniformity to a (dynamically growable) finite region with fixed boundary conditions. The suppression of unphysical quasiparticle reflections from the boundary of the nonuniform region is also discussed. Using this algorithm we study the dynamics of localized excitations in infinite systems, which we illustrate in the case of the spin-1 anti-ferromagnetic Heisenberg model and the $\phi^4$ model.

id: 1207.0711
title: The mystery of relationship of mechanics and field in the many-body quantum world
authors: Michal Svrcek
comments: 24 pages, 9 sections; remake of abstract, introduction and conclusion; more physics, less philosophy
journal: Progress in Theoretical Chemistry and Physics, Volume 27, Part 1, 41-52, 2013
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0711
abstract: We have revealed three fatal errors incurred from a blind transferring of quantum field methods into the quantum mechanics. This had tragic consequences because it produced crippled model Hamiltonians, unfortunately considered sufficient for a description of solids including superconductors. From there, of course, Fr\"ohlich derived wrong effective Hamiltonian, from which incorrect BCS theory arose. 1) Mechanical and field patterns cannot be mixed. Instead of field methods applied to the mechanical Born-Oppenheimer approximation we have entirely to avoid it and construct an independent and standalone field pattern. This leads to a new form of the Bohr's complementarity on the level of composite systems. 2) We have correctly to deal with the center of gravity, which is under the field pattern "materialized" in the form of new quasipartiles - rotons and translons. This leads to a new type of relativity of internal and external degrees of freedom and one-particle way of bypassing degeneracies (gap formation). 3) The possible symmetry cannot be apriori loaded but has to be aposteriori obtained as a solution of field equations, formulated in a general form without translational or any other symmetry. This leads to an utterly revised view of symmetry breaking in non-adiabatic systems, namely Jahn-Teller effect and superconductivity. These two phenomena are synonyms and share a unique symmetry breaking.

id: 1207.0723
title: A non-symmetric Yang-Baxter Algebra for the Quantum Nonlinear Schr?dinger Model
authors: Bart Vlaar
comments: 31 pages; added some references; minor corrections throughout
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 235206
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0723
abstract: We study certain non-symmetric wavefunctions associated to the quantum nonlinear Schr\"odinger model, introduced by Komori and Hikami using Gutkin's propagation operator, which involves representations of the degenerate affine Hecke algebra. We highlight how these functions can be generated using a vertex-type operator formalism similar to the recursion defining the symmetric (Bethe) wavefunction in the quantum inverse scattering method. Furthermore, some of the commutation relations encoded in the Yang-Baxter equation for the relevant monodromy matrix are generalized to the non-symmetric case.

id: 1207.0726
title: Decoherence induced by an ordered environment
authors: Juliana Restrepo, S. Camalet, R. Chitra
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: EPL, 101 (2013) 50005
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0726
abstract: This Letter deals with the time evolution of a qubit weakly coupled to a reservoir which has a symmetry broken state with long range order at finite temperatures. In particular, we model the ordered reservoir by a standard BCS superconductor with s-wave pairing. We study the reduced density matrix of a qubit using both the time-convolutionless and Nakajima-Zwanzig approximations. We study different kinds of couplings between the qubit and the superconducting bath. We find that ordering in the superconducting bath generically leads to an unfavorable non- Markovian faster-than-exponential decay of the qubit coherence. On the other hand, a coupling of the qubit to the non-ordered sector of the bath can result in a Markovian decoherence of the qubit with a drastic reduction of the decoherence rate. Since these behaviors are endemic to the ordered phase, qubits can serve as useful probes of continuous phase transitions in their environment. We also briefly discuss the validity of our main result, faster than exponential decay of the qubit coherences, for a qubit coupled to a generic ordered bath with a spontaneously broken continuous symmetry at finite temperatures.

id: 1207.0766
title: The bicomplex quantum Coulomb potential problem
authors: J. Mathieu, L. Marchildon, D. Rochon
comments: Clarifications; some figures removed; version to appear in Can. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0766
abstract: Generalizations of the complex number system underlying the mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics have been known for some time, but the use of the commutative ring of bicomplex numbers for that purpose is relatively new. This paper provides an analytical solution of the quantum Coulomb potential problem formulated in terms of bicomplex numbers. We define the problem by introducing a bicomplex hamiltonian operator and extending the canonical commutation relations to the form [X_i,P_k] = i_1 hbar xi delta_{ik}, where xi is a bicomplex number. Following Pauli's algebraic method, we find the eigenvalues of the bicomplex hamiltonian. These eigenvalues are also obtained, along with appropriate eigenfunctions, by solving the extension of Schrodinger's time-independent differential equation. Examples of solutions are displayed. There is an orthonormal system of solutions that belongs to a bicomplex Hilbert space.

id: 1207.0862
title: Time Evolution within a Comoving Window: Scaling of signal fronts and magnetization plateaus after a local quench in quantum spin chains
authors: V. Zauner, M. Ganahl, H. G. Evertz, T. Nishino
comments: 4+ pages, 5 figures. Added references, minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0862
abstract: We present a modification of Matrix Product State time evolution to simulate the propagation of signal fronts on infinite one-dimensional systems. We restrict the calculation to a window moving along with a signal, which by the Lieb-Robinson bound is contained within a light cone. Signal fronts can be studied unperturbed for much longer times than on finite systems. Entanglement inside the window is naturally small, greatly lowering computational effort. We calculate the time evolution of the transverse field Ising (TFI) model and of the XXZ spin-half antiferromagnet after local quantum quenches. In both models, we observe distinct magnetization plateaus. In the TFI model, their dynamical scaling follows power laws to high precision.

id: 1207.0985
title: Complex paths for regular-to-chaotic tunneling rates
authors: Normann Mertig, Steffen L?ck, Arnd B?cker, Roland Ketzmerick, Akira Shudo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0985
abstract: In generic Hamiltonian systems tori of regular motion are dynamically separated from regions of chaotic motion in phase space. Quantum mechanically these phase-space regions are coupled by dynamical tunneling. We introduce a semiclassical approach based on complex paths for the prediction of dynamical tunneling rates from regular tori to the chaotic region. This approach is demonstrated for the standard map giving excellent agreement with numerically determined tunneling rates.

id: 1207.0989
title: Coupled $\ell$-wave confinement-induced resonances in cylindrically symmetric waveguides
authors: P. Giannakeas, F. K. Diakonos, P. Schmelcher
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0989
abstract: A semi-analytical approach to atomic waveguide scattering for harmonic confinement is developed taking into account all partial waves. As a consequence $\ell$-wave confinement-induced resonances are formed being coupled to each other due to the confinement. The corresponding resonance condition is obtained analytically using the $K$-matrix formalism. Atomic scattering is described by transition diagrams which depict all relevant processes the atoms undergo during the collision. Our analytical results are compared to corresponding numerical data and show very good agreement.

id: 1207.1011
title: Universality of Fragmentation in the Schr?dinger Dynamics of Bosonic Josephson Junctions
authors: Kaspar Sakmann, Alexej I. Streltsov, Ofir E. Alon, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023602 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1011
abstract: The many-body Schr\"odinger dynamics of a one-dimensional bosonic Josephson junction is investigated for up to ten thousand bosons and long times. The initial states are fully condensed and the interaction strength is weak. We report on a universal fragmentation dynamics on the many-body level: systems consisting of different numbers of particles fragment to the same value at constant mean-field interaction strength. The phenomenon manifests itself in observables such as the correlation functions of the system. We explain this universal fragmentation dynamics analytically based on the Bose-Hubbard model. We thereby show that the extent to which many-body effects become important at later times depends crucially on the initial state. Even for arbitrarily large particle numbers and arbitrarily weak interaction strength the dynamics is many-body in nature and the fragmentation universal. There is no weakly interacting limit where the Gross-Piatevskii mean-field is valid for long times.

id: 1207.1049
title: Thermostatistics with minimal length uncertainty relation
authors: B. Vakili, M. A. Gorji
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure, minor changes
journal: JSTAT (2012) P10013
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1049
abstract: Existence of minimal length is suggested in any quantum theory of gravity such as string theory, double special relativity and black hole physics. One way to impose minimal length is deforming Heisenberg algebra in phase space which is called Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP). In this paper, we develop statistical mechanics in GUP framework. Our method is quite general and does not need to fix the generalized coordinates and momenta. We define general transformation in phase space which transforms usual Heisenberg algebra to a deformed one. In this method, quantum gravity effects only acts on the structure of phase space and we relate these effects to the density of states. We find an interesting phenomenon in Maxwell-Boltzmann statistics which has not a classical analogy. We show that there is an upper bound for the number of excited particles in the limit of high temperature which implies to the condensation. Also we study modification of Bose-Einstein condensation and the completely degenerate gas.

id: 1207.1072
title: Effective Spin Couplings in the Mott Insulator of the Honeycomb Lattice Hubbard Model
authors: H-Y.Yang, A.F. Albuquerque, S. Capponi, A.M. L?uchli, K.P. Schmidt
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 115027
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1072
abstract: Motivated by the recent discovery of a spin liquid phase for the Hubbard model on the honeycomb lattice at half-filling, we apply both perturbative and non-perturbative techniques to derive effective spin Hamiltonians describing the low-energy physics of the Mott-insulating phase of the system. Exact diagonalizations of the so-derived models on small clusters are performed, in order to assess the quality of the effective low-energy theory in the spin-liquid regime. We show that six-spin interactions on the elementary loop of the honeycomb lattice are the dominant sub-leading effective couplings. A minimal spin model is shown to reproduce most of the energetic properties of the Hubbard model on the honeycomb lattice in its spin-liquid phase. Surprisingly, a more elaborate effective low-energy spin model obtained by a systematic graph expansion rather disagrees beyond a certain point with the numerical results for the Hubbard model at intermediate couplings.

id: 1207.1200
title: Pisot q-Coherent states quantization of the harmonic oscillator
authors: J. P. Gazeau, M. A. del Olmo
comments: 35 pages, 22 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1200
abstract: We revisit the quantized version of the harmonic oscillator obtained through a q-dependent family of coherent states. For each q, 0< q < 1, these normalized states form an overcomplete set that resolves the unity with respect to an explicit measure. We restrict our study to the case in which 1/q is a quadratic unit Pisot number: the q-deformed integers form Fibonacci-like sequences of integers. We then examine the main characteristics of the corresponding quantum oscillator: localization in the configuration and in the phase spaces, angle operator, probability distributions and related statistical features, time evolution and semi-classical phase space trajectories.

id: 1207.1218
title: Approximate bound state solutions of the deformed Woods-Saxon potential using asymptotic iteration method
authors: Babatunde J. Falaye, Majid Hamzavi, Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures; Chinese Physics Letters (2012)
journal: Chinese Physics Letters 30 (2) (2013) 020305
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1218
abstract: By using the Pekeris approximation, the Schrodinger equation is approximately solved for the nuclear deformed Woods-Saxon potential within the framework of the asymptotic iteration method. The energy levels are worked out and the corresponding normalized eigenfunctions are obtained in terms of hypergeometric function.

id: 1207.1271
title: Automated Verification of Quantum Protocols using MCMAS
authors: F. Belardinelli, P. Gonzalez, A. Lomuscio
comments: In Proceedings QAPL 2012, arXiv:1207.0559
journal: EPTCS 85, 2012, pp. 48-62
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1271
abstract: We present a methodology for the automated verification of quantum protocols using MCMAS, a symbolic model checker for multi-agent systems The method is based on the logical framework developed by D'Hondt and Panangaden for investigating epistemic and temporal properties, built on the model for Distributed Measurement-based Quantum Computation (DMC), an extension of the Measurement Calculus to distributed quantum systems. We describe the translation map from DMC to interpreted systems, the typical formalism for reasoning about time and knowledge in multi-agent systems. Then, we introduce dmc2ispl, a compiler into the input language of the MCMAS model checker. We demonstrate the technique by verifying the Quantum Teleportation Protocol, and discuss the performance of the tool.

id: 1207.1274
title: Photonic molecules and spectral engineering
authors: Svetlana V. Boriskina
comments: A review book chapter: 29 pages, 19 figures
journal: Photonic Microresonator Research and Applications, Springer Series in Optical Sciences, Volume: 156, Pages: 393-421, 2010
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1274
abstract: This chapter reviews the fundamental optical properties and applications of pho-tonic molecules (PMs) - photonic structures formed by electromagnetic coupling of two or more optical microcavities (photonic atoms). Controllable interaction between light and matter in photonic atoms can be further modified and en-hanced by the manipulation of their mutual coupling. Mechanical and optical tunability of PMs not only adds new functionalities to microcavity-based optical components but also paves the way for their use as testbeds for the exploration of novel physical regimes in atomic physics and quantum optics. Theoretical studies carried on for over a decade yielded novel PM designs that make possible lowering thresholds of semiconductor microlasers, producing directional light emission, achieving optically-induced transparency, and enhancing sensitivity of microcavity-based bio-, stress- and rotation-sensors. Recent advances in material science and nano-fabrication techniques make possible the realization of optimally-tuned PMs for cavity quantum electrodynamic experiments, classical and quantum information processing, and sensing.

id: 1207.1466
title: Vortices on demand in multicomponent Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Roberto Zamora-Zamora, Marcelo Lozada-Hidalgo, Santiago F. Caballero-Benitez, Victor Romero-Rochin
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, (Accepted in PRA)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053624 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1466
abstract: We present a simple mechanism to produce vortices at any desired spatial locations in harmonically trapped Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) with multicomponent spin states coupled to external transverse and axial magnetic fields. The vortices appear at the spatial points where the spin-transverse field interaction vanishes and, depending on the multipolar magnetic field order, the vortices can acquire different predictable topological charges. We explicitly demonstrate our findings, both numerically and analytically, by analyzing a 2D BEC via the Gross-Pitaevskii equation for atomic systems with either two or three internal states. We further show that, by an spontaneous symmetry breaking mechanism, vortices can appear in any spin component, unless symmetry is externally broken at the outset by an axial field. We suggest that this scenario may be tested using an ultracold gas of $^{87}$Rb occupying all three $F = 1$ states in an optical trap.

id: 1207.1476
title: Graphene-based photovoltaic cells for near-field thermal energy conversion
authors: Riccardo Messina, Philippe Ben-Abdallah
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1476
abstract: Thermophotovoltaic devices are energy-conversion systems generating an electric current from the thermal photons radiated by a hot body. In far field, the efficiency of these systems is limited by the thermodynamic Schockley-Queisser limit corresponding to the case where the source is a black body. On the other hand, in near field, the heat flux which can be transferred to a photovoltaic cell can be several orders of magnitude larger because of the contribution of evanescent photons. This is particularly true when the source supports surface polaritons. Unfortunately, in the infrared where these systems operate, the mismatch between the surface-mode frequency and the semiconductor gap reduces drastically the potential of this technology. Here we show that graphene-based hybrid photovoltaic cells can significantly enhance the generated power paving the way to a promising technology for an intensive production of electricity from waste heat.

id: 1207.1519
title: Scattering and Bound States of a Deformed Quantum Mechanics
authors: Chee-Leong Ching, Rajesh Parwani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1519
abstract: We construct the exact position representation of a deformed quantum mechanics which exhibits an intrinsic maximum momentum and use it to study problems such as a particle in a box and scattering from a step potential, among others. In particular, we show that unlike usual quantum mechanics, the present deformed case delays the formation of bound states in a finite potential well. In the process we also highlight some limitations and pit-falls of low-momentum or perturbative treatments and thus resolve two puzzles occurring in the literature.

id: 1207.1540
title: Time-dependent approach to many-particle tunneling in one-dimension
authors: Takahito Maruyama, Tomohiro Oishi, Kouichi Hagino, Hiroyuki Sagawa
comments: 9 pages, 10 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1540
abstract: Employing the time-dependent approach, we investigate a quantum tunneling decay of many-particle systems. We apply it to a one-dimensional three-body problem with a heavy core nucleus and two valence protons. We calculate the decay width for two-proton emission from the survival probability, which well obeys the exponential decay-law after a sufficient time. The effect of the correlation between the two emitted protons is also studied by observing the time evolution of the two-particle density distribution. It is shown that the pairing correlation significantly enhances the probability for the simultaneous diproton decay.

id: 1207.1559
title: A proof of the nodal structure of the wave functions of supersymmetric partner potentials
authors: S. Sree Ranjani, A. K. Kapoor, A. Khare, P. K. Panigrahi
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1559
abstract: Quantum Hamilton-Jacobi formalism is used to give a proof for Gozzi's criterion that for eigenstates of the supersymmetric partners, corresponding to same energy, the difference in the number of nodes is equal to one when supersymmetry (SUSY) is unbroken and is zero when SUSY is broken. We show that this proof is also applicable to the case, where isospectral deformation is involved.

id: 1207.1620
title: Majorana Zero-modes and Topological Phases of Multi-flavored Jackiw-Rebbi model
authors: Shih-Hao Ho, Feng-Li Lin, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 29 pages, 3 figures; v2, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1620
abstract: Motivated by the recent Kitaev's K-theory analysis of topological insulators and superconductors, we adopt the same framework to study the topological phase structure of Jackiw-Rebbi model in 3+1 dimensions. According to the K-theory analysis based on the properties of the charge conjugation and time reversal symmetries, we classify the topological phases of the model. In particular, we find that there exist $\mathbf{Z}$ Majorana zero-modes hosted by the hedgehogs/t'Hooft-Polyakov monopoles, if the model has a $T^2=1$ time reversal symmetry. Guided by the K-theory results, we then explicitly show that a single Majorana zero mode solution exists for the SU(2) doublet fermions in some co-dimensional one planes of the mass parameter space. It turns out we can see the existence of none or a single zero mode when the fermion doublet is only two. We then take a step further to consider four-fermion case and find there can be zero, one or two normalizable zero mode in some particular choices of mass matrices. Our results also indicate that a single normalizable Majorana zero mode can be compatible with the cancellation of SU(2) Witten anomaly.

id: 1207.1637
title: Hybrid circuit cavity quantum electrodynamics with a micromechanical resonator
authors: J. M. Pirkkalainen, S. U. Cho, Jian Li, G. S. Paraoanu, P. J. Hakonen, M. A. Sillanp??
comments: 7 pages + 23 p. supplementary. Up-to-date version
journal: Nature 494, 211 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1637
abstract: Hybrid quantum systems with inherently distinct degrees of freedom play a key role in many physical phenomena. Famous examples include cavity quantum electrodynamics, trapped ions, or electrons and phonons in the solid state. Here, a strong coupling makes the constituents loose their individual character and form dressed states. Apart from fundamental signi?cance, hybrid systems can be exploited for practical purpose, noteworthily in the emerging ?eld of quantum information control. A promising direction is provided by the combination between long-lived atomic states and the accessible electrical degrees of freedom in superconducting cavities and qubits. Here we integrate circuit cavity quantum electrodynamics with phonons. Besides coupling to a microwave cavity, our superconducting transmon qubit interacts with a phonon mode in a micromechanical resonator, thus representing an atom coupled to two di?erent cavities. We measure the phonon Stark shift, as well as the splitting of the qubit spectral line into motional sidebands, which feature transitions between the dressed electromechanical states. In the time domain, we observe coherent conversion of qubit excitation to phonons as sideband Rabi oscillations. This is a model system having potential for a quantum interface, which may allow for storage of quantum information in long-lived phonon states, coupling to optical photons, or for investigations of strongly coupled quantum systems near the classical limit.

id: 1207.1675
title: Multifractality of quantum wave packets
authors: I. Garcia-Mata, J. Martin, O. Giraud, B. Georgeot
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, final version including a new figure (figure 1)
journal: Physical Review E 86, 056215 (2012)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1675
abstract: We study a version of the mathematical Ruijsenaars-Schneider model, and reinterpret it physically in order to describe the spreading with time of quantum wave packets in a system where multifractality can be tuned by varying a parameter. We compare different methods to measure the multifractality of wave packets, and identify the best one. We find the multifractality to decrease with time until it reaches an asymptotic limit, different from the mulifractality of eigenvectors, but related to it, as is the rate of the decrease. Our results could guide the study of experimental situations where multifractality is present in quantum systems.

id: 1207.1743
title: Noncommutative magnetic moment, fundamental length and lepton size
authors: T. C. Adorno, D. M. Gitman, A. E. Shabad
comments: 
journal: Physical Review D 86, 027702 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1743
abstract: Upper bounds on fundamental length are discussed that follow from the fact that a magnetic moment is inherent in a charged particle in noncommutative (NC) electrodynamics. The strongest result thus obtained for the fundamental lenth is still larger than the estimate of electron or muon size achieved following the Brodsky-Drell and Dehlmet approach to lepton compositeness. This means that NC electrodynamics cannot alone explain the whole existing descrepancy between the theoretical and experimental values of the muon magnetic moment. On the contrary, as measurements and calculations are further improved, the fundamental length estimate based on electron data may go down to match its compositeness radius.

id: 1207.1787
title: Two parameters scaling approach to Anderson localization of weekly interacting BEC
authors: Jian Xu, Dan-Wei Zhang, Xin-Ding Zhang, Zheng-Yuan Xue
comments: Version accepted by JETP Letters
journal: JETP Letters 97, 239 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1787
abstract: We numerically study the Anderson localization of weekly interacting Bose-Einstein condensate in a one-dimensional disordered potential. We show that two parameters are needed to completely describe such system, and the density profile of which can be described with the sum of two exponential functions. This is a new attempt for precise description of systems with interplay of disorder and interaction.

id: 1207.1810
title: Ion-neutral sympathetic cooling in a hybrid linear rf Paul and magneto-optical trap
authors: D. S. Goodman, I. Sivarajah, J. E. Wells, F. A. Narducci, W. W. Smith
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1810
abstract: Long range polarization forces between ions and neutral atoms result in large elastic scattering cross sections, e.g., 10^6 a.u. for Na+ on Na or Ca+ on Na at cold and ultracold temperatures. This suggests that a hybrid ion-neutral trap should offer a general means for significant sympathetic cooling of atomic or molecular ions. We present SIMION 7.0 simulation results concerning the advantages and limitations of sympathetic cooling within a hybrid trap apparatus, consisting of a linear rf Paul trap concentric with a Na magneto-optical trap (MOT). This paper explores the impact of various heating mechanisms on the hybrid system and how parameters related to the MOT, Paul trap, number of ions, and ion species affect the efficiency of the sympathetic cooling.

id: 1207.1884
title: Coupling and coherent electrical control of two dopants in a silicon nanowire
authors: E. Dupont-Ferrier, B. Roche, B. Voisin, X. Jehl, R. Wacquez, M. Vinet, M. Sanquer, S. De Franceschi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1884
abstract: Electric control of individual atoms or molecules in a solid-state system offers a promising way to bring quantum mechanical functionalities into electronics. This idea has recently come into the reach of the established domain of silicon technology, leading to the realization of single-atom transistors and to the first measurements of electron spin dynamics in single donors. Here we show that we can electrically couple two donors embedded in a multi-gate silicon transistor, and induce coherent oscillations in their charge states by means of microwave signals. We measure single-electron tunneling across the two donors, which reveals their energy spectrum. The lowest energy states, corresponding to a single electron located on either of the two donors, form a two-level system (TLS) well separated from all other electronic levels. Gigahertz driving of this TLS results in a quantum interference pattern associated with the absorption or the stimulated emission of up to ten microwave photons. We estimate a charge dephasing time of 0.3 nanoseconds, consistent with other types of charge quantum bits. Here, however, the relatively short coherence time can be counterbalanced by fast operation signals (in principle up to 1 terahertz) as allowed by the large empty energy window separating ground and excited states in donor atoms. The demonstrated coherent coupling of two donors constitutes an essential step towards donor-based quantum computing devices in silicon.

id: 1207.1911
title: Wave Packets and Coherent Structures for Nonlinear Schroedinger equations in Variable Nonuniform Media
authors: Alex Mahalov, Sergei K. Suslov
comments: 33 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1911
abstract: We determine conditions under which a generic gauge invariant nonautonomous and inhomogeneous nonlinear partial differential equation in the two-dimensional space-time continuum can be transform into standard autonomous forms. In addition to the nonlinear Schroedinger equation, important examples include the derivative nonlinear Schroedinger equation, the quintic complex Ginzburg-Landau equation, and the Gerdjikov-Ivanov equation. This approach provides a mathematical description of nonstationary media supporting unidimensional signal propagation and/or total field trapping. In particular, we study self-similar and nonspreading wave packets for Schroedinger equations. Some other important coherent structures are also analyzed and applications to nonlinear waves in inhomogeneous media such as atmospheric plasma, fiber optics, hydrodynamics, and Bose-Einstein condensation are discussed.

id: 1207.1968
title: Non-Compact Hopf Maps and Fuzzy Ultra-Hyperboloids
authors: Kazuki Hasebe
comments: 1+59 pages, 2 tables, explanations added in Sec.2.2, references added
journal: Nucl.Phys. B 865 (2012) 148-199
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1968
abstract: Fuzzy hyperboloids naturally emerge in the geometries of D-branes, twistor theory, and higher spin theories. In this work, we perform a systematic study of higher dimensional fuzzy hyperboloids (ultra-hyperboloids) based on non-compact Hopf maps. Two types of non-compact Hopf maps; split-type and hybrid-type, are introduced from the cousins of division algebras. We construct arbitrary even-dimensional fuzzy ultra-hyperboloids by applying the Schwinger operator formalism and indefinite Clifford algebras. It is shown that fuzzy hyperboloids, $H_F^{2p,2q}$, are represented by the coset, $H_F^{2p,2q}\simeq SO(2p,2q+1)/U(p,q)$, and exhibit two types of generalized dimensional hierarchy; hyperbolic-type (for $q\neq 0$) and hybrid-type (for $q=0$). Fuzzy hyperboloids can be expressed as fibre-bundle of fuzzy fibre over hyperbolic basemanifold. Such bundle structure of fuzzy hyperboloid gives rise to non-compact monopole gauge field. Physical realization of fuzzy hyperboloids is argued in the context of lowest Landau level physics.

id: 1207.1999
title: Faraday patterns in coupled one-dimensional dipolar condensates
authors: Kazimierz ?akomy, Rejish Nath, Luis Santos
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023620 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.1999
abstract: We study Faraday patterns in quasi-one-dimensional dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates with parametrically driven dipolar interactions. We show that in the presence of a roton minimum in the excitation spectrum, the emergent Faraday waves differ substantially in two- and one-dimensional geometries, providing a clear example of the key role of confinement dimensionality in dipolar gases. Moreover, Faraday patterns constitute an excellent tool to study non-local effects in polar gases, as we illustrate for two parallel quasi-one-dimensional dipolar condensates. Non-local interactions between the condensates give rise to an excitation spectrum characterized by symmetric and anti-symmetric modes, even in the absence of hopping. We show that this feature, absent in non-dipolar gases, results in a critical driving frequency at which a marked transition occurs between correlated and anti-correlated Faraday patterns in the two condensates. Interestingly, at this critical frequency, the emergent Faraday pattern stems from a spontaneous symmetry breaking mechanism.

id: 1207.2006
title: One-dimensional fermionic systems after interaction quenches and their description by bosonic field theories
authors: Simone A. Hamerla, G?tz S. Uhrig
comments: This is a distinctly revised version which is focussed on the description of the dynamics by bosonization techniques
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 073012
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2006
abstract: We show that the dynamics of quenches in one dimension far off equilibrium can be described by power laws, but with exponents differing from the fully renormalized ones at lowest energies. Instead they depend on the initial state and its excitation energy. Furthermore, we found that for quenches to strong interactions unexpected similarities between systems in one and in infinite dimensions occur, indicating the dominance of local processes.

id: 1207.2013
title: (Regular) pseudo-bosons versus bosons
authors: Fabio Bagarello
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1106.0112
journal: Journal of Physics A, 44, 015205 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2013
abstract: We discuss in which sense the so-called {\em regular pseudo-bosons}, recently introduced by Trifonov and analyzed in some details by the author, are related to ordinary bosons. We repeat the same analysis also for {\em pseudo-bosons}, and we analyze the role played by certain intertwining operators, which may be bounded or not.

id: 1207.2086
title: Cosmological Inflation and the Quantum Measurement Problem
authors: Jerome Martin, Vincent Vennin, Patrick Peter
comments: References added, minor corrections, conclusions unchanged
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2086
abstract: According to cosmological inflation, the inhomogeneities in our universe are of quantum mechanical origin. This scenario is phenomenologically very appealing as it solves the puzzles of the standard hot big bang model and naturally explains why the spectrum of cosmological perturbations is almost scale invariant. It is also an ideal playground to discuss deep questions among which is the quantum measurement problem in a cosmological context. Although the large squeezing of the quantum state of the perturbations and the phenomenon of decoherence explain many aspects of the quantum to classical transition, it remains to understand how a specific outcome can be produced in the early universe, in the absence of any observer. The Continuous Spontaneous Localization (CSL) approach to quantum mechanics attempts to solve the quantum measurement question in a general context. In this framework, the wavefunction collapse is caused by adding new non linear and stochastic terms to the Schroedinger equation. In this paper, we apply this theory to inflation, which amounts to solving the CSL parametric oscillator case. We choose the wavefunction collapse to occur on an eigenstate of the Mukhanov-Sasaki variable and discuss the corresponding modified Schroedinger equation. Then, we compute the power spectrum of the perturbations and show that it acquires a universal shape with two branches, one which remains scale invariant and one with nS=4, a spectral index in obvious contradiction with the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) anisotropy observations. The requirement that the non-scale invariant part be outside the observational window puts stringent constraints on the parameter controlling the deviations from ordinary quantum mechanics... (Abridged).

id: 1207.2198
title: Thermal Instability of Protected End States in a 1-D Topological Insulator
authors: O. Viyuela, A. Rivas, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: RevTex4 file, color figures, as published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 155140 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2198
abstract: We have studied the dynamical thermal effects on the protected end states of a topological insula- tor (TI) when it is considered as an open quantum system in interaction with a noisy environment at a certain temperature T . As a result, we find that protected end states in a TI become unstable and decay with time. Very remarkably, the interaction with the thermal environment (fermion-boson) respects chiral symmetry, which is the symmetry responsible for the protection (robustness) of the end states in this TI when it is isolated from the environment. Therefore, this mechanism makes end states unstable while preserving their protecting symmetry. Our results have immediate practical implications in recently proposed simulations of TI using cold atoms in optical lattices. Accordingly, we have computed lifetimes of topological end states for these physical implementations that are useful to make those experiments realistic.

id: 1207.2260
title: Two-dimensional universal conductance fluctuations and the electron-phonon interaction of topological surface states in Bi2Te2Se nanoribbons
authors: Zhaoguo Li, Taishi Chen, Haiyang Pan, Fengqi Song, Baigeng Wang, Junhao Han, Yuyuan Qin, Xuefeng Wang, Rong Zhang, Jianguo Wan, Dingyu Xing, Guanghou Wang
comments: 
journal: Scientific Report, 2, 595, 2012
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2260
abstract: The universal conductance fluctuations (UCFs), one of the most important manifestations of mesoscopic electronic interference, have not yet been demonstrated for the two-dimensional surface state of topological insulators (TIs). Even if one delicately suppresses the bulk conductance by improving the quality of TI crystals, the fluctuation of the bulk conductance still keeps competitive and difficult to be separated from the desired UCFs of surface carriers. Here we report on the experimental evidence of the UCFs of the two-dimensional surface state in the bulk insulating Bi2Te2Se nanoribbons. The solely-B\perp-dependent UCF is achieved and its temperature dependence is investigated. The surface transport is further revealed by weak antilocalizations. Such survived UCFs of the topological surface states result from the limited dephasing length of the bulk carriers in ternary crystals. The electron-phonon interaction is addressed as a secondary source of the surface state dephasing based on the temperature-dependent scaling behavior.

id: 1207.2267
title: Magnetic field dependence of the entanglement entropy of one dimensional spin systems in quantum phase transition induced by a quench
authors: Banasri Basu, Pratul Bandyopadhyay, Priyadarshi Majumdar
comments: 4 figures, Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2267
abstract: We study the magnetic field dependence of the entanglement entropy in quantum phase transition induced by a quench of the XX, XXX and the LMG model. The entropy for a block of $L$ spins with the rest follows a logarithmic scaling law where the block size $L$ is restricted due to the dependence of the prefactor on the quench time. Within this restricted region the entropy undergoes a renormalization group (RG) flow. From the RG flow equation we have analytically determined the magnetic field dependence of the entropy. The anisotropy parameter dependence of the entropy for the XY and the LMG model has also been studied in this framework. The results are found to be in excellent agreement with that obtained by other authors from numerical studies without any quench.

id: 1207.2269
title: Generation of broadband spontaneous parametric fluorescence using multiple bulk nonlinear crystals
authors: Masayuki Okano, Ryo Okamoto, Akira Tanaka, Shanthi Subashchandran, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 13, pp. 13977-13987 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2269
abstract: We propose a novel method for generating broadband spontaneous parametric fluorescence by using a set of bulk nonlinear crystals (NLCs). We also demonstrate this scheme experimentally. Our method employs a superposition of spontaneous parametric fluorescence spectra generated using multiple bulk NLCs. A typical bandwidth of 160 nm (73 THz) with a degenerate wavelength of 808 nm was achieved using two beta-barium-borate (BBO) crystals, whereas a typical bandwidth of 75 nm (34 THz) was realized using a single BBO crystal. We also observed coincidence counts of generated photon pairs in a non-collinear configuration. The bandwidth could be further broadened by increasing the number of NLCs. Our demonstration suggests that a set of four BBO crystals could realize a bandwidth of approximately 215 nm (100 THz).We also discuss the stability of Hong-Ou-Mandel two-photon interference between the parametric fluorescence generated by this scheme. Our simple scheme is easy to implement with conventional NLCs and does not require special devices.

id: 1207.2278
title: Spectral Singularities Do Not Correspond to Bound States in the Continuum
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2278
abstract: We show that, contrary to a claim made in arXiv:1011.0645, the von Neumann-Winger bound states that lie in the continuum of the scattering states are fundamentally different from Naimark's spectral singularities.

id: 1207.2299
title: Identifying the orbital angular momentum of light based on atomic ensembles
authors: Liang Han, Mingtao Cao, Ruifeng Liu, Hao Liu, Wenge Guo, Dong Wei, Shaoyan Gao, Pei Zhang, Hong Gao
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: EPL, 99 (2012) 34003
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2299
abstract: We propose a scheme to distinguish the orbital angular momentum state of the Laguerre-Gaussian (LG) beam based on the electromagnetically induced transparency modulated by a microwave field in atomic ensembles. We show that the transverse phase variation of a probe beam with the LG mode can be mapped into the spatial intensity distribution due to the change of atomic coherence caused by the microwave. The proposal may provide a useful tool for studying higher-dimensional quantum information based on atomic ensembles.

id: 1207.2358
title: Renormalization of Noncommutative Quantum Field Theories
authors: Amilcar R. de Queiroz, Rahul Srivastava, Sachindeo Vaidya
comments: 35 pages, 2 figures, Minor changes in text, Conclusions unchanged, Version to be published in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 064014 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2358
abstract: We report on a comprehensive analysis of the renormalization of noncommutative \phi^4 scalar field theories on the Groenewold-Moyal (GM) plane. These scalar field theories are twisted Poincar\'e invariant. Our main results are that these scalar field theories are renormalizable, free of UV/IR mixing, possess the same fixed points and \beta-functions for the couplings as their commutative counterparts. We also argue that similar results hold true for any generic noncommutative field theory with polynomial interactions and involving only pure matter fields. A secondary aim of this work is to provide a comprehensive review of different approaches for the computation of the noncommutative S-matrix: noncommutative interaction picture and noncommutative LSZ formalism.

id: 1207.2391
title: Large-N approximation for single- and two-component dilute Bose gases
authors: Chih-Chun Chien, Fred Cooper, Eddy Timmermans
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023634 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2391
abstract: We discuss the mean-field theories obtained from the leading order in a large-$N$ approximation for one- and two- component dilute Bose gases. For a one-component Bose gas this approximation has the following properties: the Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) phase transition is second order but the critical temperature $T_c$ is not shifted from the non-interacting gas value $T_0$. The spectrum of excitations in the BEC phase resembles the Bogoliubov dispersion with the usual coupling constant replaced by the running coupling constant which depends on both temperature and momentum. We then study two-component Bose gases with both inter- and intra- species interactions and focus on the stability of the mixture state above $T_c$. Our mean-field approximation predicts an instability from the mixture state to a phase-separated state when the ratio of the inter-species interaction strength to the intra-species interaction strength (assuming equal strength for both species) exceeds a critical value. At high temperature this is a structural transition and the global translational symmetry is broken. Our work complements previous studies on the instability of the mixture phase in the presence of BEC.

id: 1207.2404
title: Computation of 2-D spectra assisted by compressed sampling
authors: J. Almeida, J. Prior, M. B. Plenio
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. Chem. Lett., 3 (18), 2692 (2012)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2404
abstract: The computation of scientific data can be very time consuming even if they are ultimately determined by a small number of parameters. The principle of compressed sampling suggests that we can achieve a considerable decrease in the computation time by avoiding the need to sample the full data set. We demonstrate the usefulness of this approach at the hand of 2-D spectra in the context of ultra-fast non-linear spectroscopy of biological systems where numerical calculations are highly challenging due to the considerable computational effort involved in obtaining individual data points.

id: 1207.2464
title: Excitonic energy transfer in light-harvesting complexes in purple bacteria
authors: Jun Ye, Kewei Sun, Yang Zhao, Yunjin Yu, Chee Kong Lee, Jianshu Cao
comments: 14 pages 9 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 136, 245104 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2464
abstract: Two distinct approaches, the Frenkel-Dirac time-dependent variation and the Haken-Strobl model, are adopted to study energy transfer dynamics in single-ring and double-ring light-harvesting systems in purple bacteria. It is found that inclusion of long-range dipolar interactions in the two methods results in significant increases in intra- or inter-ring exciton transfer efficiency. The dependence of exciton transfer efficiency on trapping positions on single rings of LH2 (B850) and LH1 is similar to that in toy models with nearest-neighbor coupling only. However, owing to the symmetry breaking caused by the dimerization of BChls and dipolar couplings, such dependence has been largely suppressed. In the studies of coupled-ring systems, both methods reveal interesting role of dipolar interaction in increasing energy transfer efficiency by introducing multiple intra/inter-ring transfer paths. Importantly, the time scale (~4ps) of inter-ring exciton transfer obtained from polaron dynamics is in good agreement with previous studies. In a double-ring LH2 system, dipole-induced symmetry breaking leads to global minima and local minima of the average trapping time when there is a finite value of non-zero dephasing rate, suggesting that environment plays a role in preserving quantum coherent energy transfer. In contrast, dephasing comes into play only when the perfect cylindrical symmetry in the hypothetic system is broken. This study has revealed that dipolar interaction between chromophores may play an important part in the high energy transfer efficiency in the LH2 system and many other natural photosynthetic systems.

id: 1207.2522
title: Supersymmetric $¦Ç$ operators
authors: Boris F. Samsonov
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2522
abstract: Being chosen as a differential operator of a special form, metric $\eta$ operator becomes unitary equivalent to a one-dimensional Hermitian Hamiltonian with a natural supersymmetric structure. We show that fixing the superpartner of this Hamiltonian permits to determine both the metric operator and corresponding non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. Moreover, under an additional restriction on the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian, it becomes a superpartner of another Hermitian Hamiltonian.

id: 1207.2525
title: Hermitian Hamiltonian equivalent to a given non-Hermitian one. Manifestation of spectral singularity
authors: Boris F. Samsonov
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2525
abstract: One of the simplest non-Hermitian Hamiltonians first proposed by Schwartz (1960 {\it Commun. Pure Appl. Math.} \tb{13} 609) which may possess a spectral singularity is analyzed from the point of view of non-Hermitian generalization of quantum mechanics. It is shown that $\eta$ operator, being a second order differential operator, has supersymmetric structure. Asymptotic behavior of eigenfunctions of a Hermitian Hamiltonian equivalent to the given non-Hermitian one is found. As a result the corresponding scattering matrix and cross section are given explicitly. It is demonstrated that the possible presence of the spectral singularity in the spectrum of the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian may be detected as a resonance in the scattering cross section of its Hermitian counterpart. Nevertheless, just at the singular point the equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian becomes undetermined.

id: 1207.2551
title: A Mixed-Entropic Uncertainty Relation
authors: Kamal Bhattacharyya, Karabi Halder
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2551
abstract: We highlight the advantages of using simultaneously the Shannon and Fisher information measures in providing a useful form of the uncertainty relation for the position-momentum case. It does not require any Fourier transformation. The sensitivity is also noteworthy.

id: 1207.2593
title: Four-parameter families of complex Hadamard matrices of order six
authors: Petre Dita
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2593
abstract: In this paper we provide a general method to construct four-parameter families of complex Hadamard matrices of order six. Our approach is to write a 6-dimensional matrix as composed of four blocks, each one in the form of a circulant matrix. Use of Sylvester method of inverse orthogonal matrices leads to two constraints on the six parameters, and their fulfilment generates complex Hadamard matrices when the free parameters take values on the unit circle. We hope that the problem of mutually unbiased bases could be solved for six-level systems by using our results.

id: 1207.2595
title: Particle Production in the Field Theories with Symmetry
authors: J. Manjavidze
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2595
abstract: The field theory with high space-time symmetry is considered with the aim to examine the mass-shell particles production processes. The general conclusion is following: no real particle production exists if the space-time symmetry constraints are taken into account. This result does not depend on the concrete structure of Lagrangian.

id: 1207.2659
title: Driven-dissipative dynamics of a strongly interacting Rydberg gas
authors: A. W. Glaetzle, R. Nath, B. Zhao, G. Pupillo, P. Zoller
comments: 20 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043403 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2659
abstract: We study the non-equilibrium many-body dynamics of a cold gas of ground state alkali atoms weakly admixed by Rydberg states with laser light. On a timescale shorter than the lifetime of the dressed states, effective dipole-dipole or van der Waals interactions between atoms can lead to the formation of strongly correlated phases, such as atomic crystals. Using a semiclassical approach, we study the long-time dynamics where decoherence and dissipative processes due to spontaneous emission and blackbody radiation dominate, leading to heating and melting of atomic crystals as well as particle losses. These effects can be substantially mitigated by performing active laser cooling in the presence of atomic dressing.

id: 1207.2755
title: Signature of special behaviours of $1/r^2$ interaction in the quantum entanglement entropy
authors: Poulomi Sadhukhan, Somendra M. Bhattacharjee
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures, typos corrected, minor rearrangement of text and figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 425302 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2755
abstract: We study the bipartite von Neumann entropy of two particles interacting via a long-range scale-free potential $V(r)\sim -g/r^2$ in three dimensions, close to the unbinding transition. The nature of the quantum phase transition changes from critical ($-3/4<g<1/4$) to first order ($g<-3/4$) with $g=-3/4$ as a multicritical point. Here we show that the entanglement entropy has different behaviours for the critical and the first order regimes. But still there exists an interesting multicritical scaling behaviour for all $g\in (-2<g<1/4)$ controlled by the $g=-3/4$ case.

id: 1207.2784
title: Engineering shallow spins in diamond with nitrogen delta-doping
authors: Kenichi Ohno, F. Joseph Heremans, Lee C. Bassett, Bryan A. Myers, David M. Toyli, Ania C. Bleszynski Jayich, Christopher J. Palmstrom, David D. Awschalom
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, 11 pages of additional supplementary material
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 101, 082413 (2012)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2784
abstract: We demonstrate nanometer-precision depth control of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center creation near the surface of synthetic diamond using an in situ nitrogen delta-doping technique during plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition. Despite their proximity to the surface, doped NV centers with depths (d) ranging from 5 - 100 nm display long spin coherence times, T2 > 100 \mus at d = 5 nm and T2 > 600 \mus at d \geq 50 nm. The consistently long spin coherence observed in such shallow NV centers enables applications such as atomic-scale external spin sensing and hybrid quantum architectures.

id: 1207.2905
title: Bose-Einstein Condensates in a Cavity-mediated Triple-well
authors: Lei Tan, Bin Wang, Peter Barker, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2905
abstract: We investigate the energy structures and the dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) in a triple-well potential coupled a high finesse optical cavity within a mean field approach. Due to the intrinsic atom-cavity field nonlinearity, several interesting phenomena arise which are the focuses of this work. For the energy structure, the bistability appears in the energy levels due to this atoms-cavity field nonlinearity, and the same phenomena can be found in the intra-cavity photons number. With an increase of the pump-cavity detunings, the higher and lower energy levels show a loop structure due to this cavity-mediated effects. In the dynamical process, an extensive numerical simulation of localization of the BECs for atoms initially trapped in one-, two-, and three-wells are performed for the symmetric and asymmetric cases in detail. It is shown that the the transition from oscillation to the localization can be modified by the cavity-mediated potential, which will enlarge the regions of oscillation. With the increasing of the atomic interaction, the oscillation is blocked and the localization emerges. The condensates atoms can be trapped either in one-, two-, or in three wells eventually where they are initially uploaded for certain parameters. In particular, we find that the transition from the oscillation to the localization is accompanied with some irregular regime where tunneling dynamics is dominated by chaos for this cavity-mediated system.

id: 1207.2910
title: Delayed feedback control in quantum transport
authors: Clive Emary
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A {\bf 371} 1999 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2910
abstract: Feedback control in quantum transport has been predicted to give rise to several interesting effects, amongst them quantum state stabilisation and the realisation of a mesoscopic Maxwell's daemon. These results were derived under the assumption that control operations on the system be affected instantaneously after the measurement of electronic jumps through it. In this contribution I describe how to include a delay between detection and control operation in the master equation theory of feedback-controlled quantum transport. I investigate the consequences of delay for the state-stabilisation and Maxwell's-daemon schemes. Furthermore, I describe how delay can be used as a tool to probe coherent oscillations of electrons within a transport system and how this formalism can be used to model finite detector bandwidth.

id: 1207.2938
title: Andreev reflection and tunneling spectrum in a superlattice of metal-superconductor junctions
authors: W. LiMing, Jiayun Luo, Xiaoxue Cai, Ke Sha, Liangbin Hu
comments: 4 pages,9 figures
journal: Frontiers of Physics 8,50-54(2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2938
abstract: The tunneling spectrum of an electron and a hole in a superlattice of NS junctions is computed using the BTK approach and the transfer matrix method. It shows sharp resonances at some energies above the superconducting gap. The sharper the resonance is the more layers the superlattice has. We find for the first time a mechanism to balance the incident and outgoing currents on the superlattice by averaging over the phase between the incident electron and the incident hole. This mechanism is more natural and physical than those in literatures.

id: 1207.2944
title: Feedback control of a solid-state qubit using high-fidelity projective measurement
authors: D. Rist¨¨, C. C. Bultink, K. W. Lehnert, L. DiCarlo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, and Supplementary Information (5 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 240502 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2944
abstract: We demonstrate feedback control of a superconducting transmon qubit using discrete, projective measurement and conditional coherent driving. Feedback realizes a fast and deterministic qubit reset to a target state with 2.4% error averaged over input superposition states, and cooling of the transmon from 16% spurious excitation to 3%. This closed-loop qubit control is necessary for measurement-based protocols such as quantum error correction and teleportation.

id: 1207.2953
title: Gravitation and quantum interference experiments with neutrons
authors: Hartmut Abele, Helmut Leeb
comments: Part of Focus on Modern Frontiers of Matter Wave Optics and Interferometry, 23 pages, 14 figures
journal: 2012 New J. Phys. 14 055010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2953
abstract: This article describes gravity experiments, where the outcome depends upon both the gravitational acceleration $g$ and the Planck constant $\hbar$. We focus on the work done with an elementary particle, the neutron.

id: 1207.2972
title: Coherent Adiabatic Spin Control in the Presence of Charge Noise Using Tailored Pulses
authors: Hugo Ribeiro, Guido Burkard, J. R. Petta, H. Lu, A. C. Gossard
comments: Related papers at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 086804 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.2972
abstract: We study finite-time Landau-Zener transitions at a singlet-triplet level crossing in a GaAs double quantum dot, both experimentally and theoretically. Sweeps across the anticrossing in the high driving speed limit result in oscillations with a small visibility. Here we demonstrate how to increase the oscillation visibility while keeping sweep times shorter than T2* using a tailored pulse with a detuning dependent level velocity. Our results show an improvement of a factor ~2.9 for the oscillation visibility. In particular, we were able to obtain a visibility of ~0.5 for St\"uckelberg oscillations, which demonstrates the creation of an equally weighted superposition of the qubit states.

id: 1207.3010
title: Fingerprints of spin-orbital entanglement in transition metal oxides
authors: Andrzej M. Ole?
comments: 54 pages, 15 figures, topical review
journal: Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 24, 313201 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3010
abstract: The concept of spin-orbital entanglement on superexchange bonds in transition metal oxides is introduced and explained on several examples. It is shown that spin-orbital entanglement in superexchange models destabilizes the long-range (spin and orbital) order and may lead either to a disordered spin-liquid state or to novel phases at low temperature which arise from strongly frustrated interactions. Such novel ground states cannot be described within the conventionally used mean field theory which separates spin and orbital degrees of freedom. Even in cases where the ground states are disentangled, spin-orbital entanglement occurs in excited states and may become crucial for a correct description of physical properties at finite temperature. As an important example of this behaviour we present spin-orbital entanglement in the $R$VO$_3$ perovskites, with $R$=La,Pr,...,Yb,Lu, where such finite temperature properties of these compounds can be understood only using entangled states: ($i$) thermal evolution of the optical spectral weights, ($ii$) the dependence of transition temperatures for the onset of orbital and magnetic order on the ionic radius in the phase diagram of the $R$VO$_3$ perovskites, and ($iii$) dimerization observed in the magnon spectra for the $C$-type antiferromagnetic phase of YVO$_3$. Finally, it is shown that joint spin-orbital excitations in an ordered phase with coexisting antiferromagnetic and alternating orbital order introduces topological constraints for the hole propagation and will thus radically modify transport properties in doped Mott insulators where hole motion implies simultaneous spin and orbital excitations.

id: 1207.3021
title: A Nanofiber-Based Optical Conveyor Belt for Cold Atoms
authors: Philipp Schneeweiss, Samuel T. Dawkins, Rudolf Mitsch, Daniel Reitz, Eugen Vetsch, Arno Rauschenbeutel
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. B 110, 279 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3021
abstract: We demonstrate optical transport of cold cesium atoms over millimeter-scale distances along an optical nanofiber. The atoms are trapped in a one-dimensional optical lattice formed by a two-color evanescent field surrounding the nanofiber, far red- and blue-detuned with respect to the atomic transition. The blue-detuned field is a propagating nanofiber-guided mode while the red-detuned field is a standing-wave mode which leads to the periodic axial confinement of the atoms. Here, this standing wave is used for transporting the atoms along the nanofiber by mutually detuning the two counter-propagating fields which form the standing wave. The performance and limitations of the nanofiber-based transport are evaluated and possible applications are discussed.

id: 1207.3062
title: Condition Numbers of Indefinite Rank 2 Ghost Wishart Matrices
authors: Ramis Movassagh, Alan Edelman
comments: 10 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3062
abstract: We define an indefinite Wishart matrix as a matrix of the form A=W^{T}W\Sigma, where \Sigma is an indefinite diagonal matrix and W is a matrix of independent standard normals. We focus on the case where W is L by 2 which has engineering applications. We obtain the distribution of the ratio of the eigenvalues of A. This distribution can be "folded" to give the distribution of the condition number. We calculate formulas for W real (\beta=1), complex (\beta=2), quaternionic (\beta=4) or any ghost 0<\beta<\infty. We then corroborate our work by comparing them against numerical experiments.

id: 1207.3199
title: Adsorbate surface diffusion: The role of incoherent tunneling in light particle motion
authors: A. S. Sanz, R. Martinez-Casado, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures; important reorganization of the work (including title changes)
journal: Surf. Sci. 617, 229 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3199
abstract: The role of incoherent tunneling in the diffusion of light atoms on surfaces is investigated. With this purpose, a Chudley-Elliot master equation constrained to nearest neighbors is considered within the Grabert-Weiss approach to quantum diffusion in periodic lattices. This model is applied to recent measurements of atomic H and D on Pt(111), rendering friction coefficients that are in the range of those available in the literature for other species of adsorbates. A simple extension of the model has also been considered to evaluate the relationship between coverage and tunneling, and therefore the feasibility of the approach. An increase of the tunneling rate has been observed as the surface coverage decreases.

id: 1207.3203
title: Feedback control of trapped coherent atomic ensembles
authors: T. Vanderbruggen, R. Kohlhaas, A. Bertoldi, S. Bernon, A. Aspect, A. Landragin, P. Bouyer
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 210503 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3203
abstract: We demonstrate how to use feedback to control the internal states of trapped coherent ensembles of two-level atoms, and to protect a superposition state against the decoherence induced by a collective noise. Our feedback scheme is based on weak optical measurements with negligible back-action and coherent microwave manipulations. The efficiency of the feedback system is studied for a simple binary noise model and characterized in terms of the trade-off between information retrieval and destructivity from the optical probe. We also demonstrate the correction of more general types of collective noise. This technique can be used for the operation of atomic interferometers beyond the standard Ramsey scheme, opening the way towards improved atomic sensors.

id: 1207.3297
title: Squeezed coherent states for noncommutative spaces with minimal length uncertainty relations
authors: Sanjib Dey, Andreas Fring
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 86, 064038 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3297
abstract: We provide an explicit construction for Gazeau-Klauder coherent states related to non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with discrete bounded below and nondegenerate eigenspectrum. The underlying spacetime structure is taken to be of a noncommutative type with associated uncertainty relations implying minimal lengths. The uncertainty relations for the constructed states are shown to be saturated in a Hermitian as well as a non-Hermitian setting for a perturbed harmonic oscillator. The computed value of the Mandel parameter dictates that the coherent wavepackets are assembled according to sub-Poissonian statistics. Fractional revival times, indicating the superposition of classical-like sub-wave packets are clearly identified.

id: 1207.3303
title: The two dimensional harmonic oscillator on a noncommutative space with minimal uncertainties
authors: Sanjib Dey, Andreas Fring
comments: 4 pages, contribution to proceedings of "Analytic and algebraic methods in physics X", Prague
journal: Acta Polytechnica 53 (2013) 268-276
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3303
abstract: The two dimensional set of canonical relations giving rise to minimal uncertainties previously constructed from a q-deformed oscillator algebra is further investigated. We provide a representation for this algebra in terms of a flat noncommutative space and employ it to study the eigenvalue spectrum for the harmonic oscillator on this space. The perturbative expression for the eigenenergy indicates that the model might possess an exceptional point at which the spectrum becomes complex and its PT-symmetry is spontaneously broken.

id: 1207.3339
title: Magnetic field imaging with NV ensembles
authors: L. M. Pham, D. Le Sage, P. L. Stanwix, T. K. Yeung, D. Glenn, A. Trifonov, P. Cappellaro, P. R. Hemmer, M. D. Lukin, H. Park, A. Yacoby, R. L. Walsworth
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 045021 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3339
abstract: We demonstrate a method of imaging spatially varying magnetic fields using a thin layer of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers at the surface of a diamond chip. Fluorescence emitted by the two-dimensional NV ensemble is detected by a CCD array, from which a vector magnetic field pattern is reconstructed. As a demonstration, AC current is passed through wires placed on the diamond chip surface, and the resulting AC magnetic field patterns are imaged using an echo-based technique with sub-micron resolution over a 140 \mu m x 140 \mu m field of view, giving single-pixel sensitivity ~100 nT/\sqrt{Hz}. We discuss ongoing efforts to further improve sensitivity and potential bioimaging applications such as real-time imaging of activity in functional, cultured networks of neurons.

id: 1207.3355
title: Generalized Jarzynski Equality
authors: Don N. Page
comments: 6 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3355
abstract: The Jarzynski equality equates the mean of the exponential of the negative of the work (per fixed temperature) done by a changing Hamiltonian on a system, initially in thermal equilibrium at that temperature, to the ratio of the final to the initial equilibrium partition functions of the system at that fixed temperature. It thus relates two thermal equilibrium quantum states. Here a generalization is given that relates any two quantum states of a system.

id: 1207.3360
title: Is Renormalized Entanglement Entropy Stationary at RG Fixed Points?
authors: Igor R. Klebanov, Tatsuma Nishioka, Silviu S. Pufu, Benjamin R. Safdi
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3360
abstract: The renormalized entanglement entropy (REE) across a circle of radius R has been proposed as a c-function in Poincar\'e invariant (2+1)-dimensional field theory. A proof has been presented of its monotonic behavior as a function of R, based on the strong subadditivity of entanglement entropy. However, this proof does not directly establish stationarity of REE at conformal fixed points of the renormalization group. In this note we study the REE for the free massive scalar field theory near the UV fixed point described by a massless scalar. Our numerical calculation indicates that the REE is not stationary at the UV fixed point.

id: 1207.3408
title: Tunable coupling engineering between superconducting resonators: from sidebands to effective gauge fields
authors: B. Peropadre, D. Zueco, F. Wulschner, F. Deppe, A. Marx, R. Gross, J.J. Garc¨ªa-Ripoll
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 134504 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3408
abstract: In this work we show that a tunable coupling between microwave resonators can be engineered by means of simple Josephson junctions circuits, such as dc- and rf-SQUIDs. We show that by controlling the time dependence of the coupling it is possible to switch on and off and modulate the cross-talk, boost the interaction towards the ultrastrong regime, as well as to engineer red and blue sideband couplings, nonlinear photon hopping and classical gauge fields. We discuss how these dynamically tunable superconducting circuits enable key applications in the fields of all optical quantum computing, continuous variable quantum information and quantum simulation - all within the reach of state of the art in circuit-QED experiments.

id: 1207.3426
title: Non-local order parameters for the 1D Hubbard model
authors: Arianna Montorsi, Marco Roncaglia
comments: 4 pages; 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 236404 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3426
abstract: We characterize the Mott insulator and Luther-Emery phases of the 1D Hubbard model through correlators that measure the parity of spin and charge strings along the chain. These non-local quantities order in the corresponding gapped phases and vanish at the critical point $U_c=0$. The Mott insulator consists of bound doublon-holon pairs, which in the Luther-Emery phase turn into electron pairs with opposite spins, both unbinding at $U_c$. The behavior of the parity correlators can be captured by an effective free spinless fermion model.

id: 1207.3471
title: On the nuclear $(n;t)-$reaction in the three-electron ${}^{6}$Li atom
authors: Alexei M. Frolov, David M. Wardlaw
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1107.3816
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3471
abstract: The nuclear $(n;t)-$reaction of the three-electron ${}^{6}$Li atom with thermal/slow neutrons is considered. An effective method has been developed for determining the probabilities of formation of various atoms and ions in different bound states. We discuss a number of fundamental questions directly related to numerical computations of the final state atomic probabilities. A few appropriate variational expansions for atomic wave functions of the incident lithium atom and final helium atom and/or tritium negatively charged ion are discussed. It appears that the final ${}^4$He atom arising during the nuclear $(n,{}^{6}$Li; ${}^4$He$,t)$-reaction in the three-electron Li atom can also be created in its triplet states. The formation of the quasi-stable three-electron $e^{-}_3$ during the nuclear $(n; t)-$reaction at the Li atom is briefly discussed. Bremsstrahlung emitted by atomic electrons accelerated by the rapidly moving nuclear fragments from this reaction is analyzed. The frequency spectrum of the emitted radiation is investigated.

id: 1207.3496
title: Regular and chaotic classical dynamics in the U(5)-SU(3) quantum phase transition of the IBM
authors: M. Macek, A. Leviatan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, Proc. Beauty in Physics: Theory and Experiment, in honor of Francesco Iachello's 70th birthday, May 14-18, 2012, Cocoyoc, Mexico
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1488: 441-444, 2012
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3496
abstract: We study the classical dynamics in a generic first-order quantum phase transition between the U(5) and SU(3) limits of the interacting boson model. The dynamics is chaotic, of H\'enon-Heiles type, in the spherical phase and is regular, yet sensitive to local degeneracies, in the deformed phase. Both types of dynamics persist in the coexistence region resulting in a divided phase space.

id: 1207.3612
title: Discreteness and Determinism in Superstrings
authors: Gerard 't Hooft
comments: 30 pages (incl. title page). No figures. In version 2, extensive discussions were added on the subject of the CA interpretation of quantum mechanics, hidden variables and Bell's inequalities, in response to criticism aired by several readers of version 1
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3612
abstract: Ideas presented in two earlier papers are applied to string theory. It had been found that a deterministic cellular automaton in one space- and one time dimension can be mapped onto a bosonic quantum field theory on a 1+1 dimensional lattice. We now also show that a cellular automaton in 1+1 dimensions that processes only ones and zeros, can be mapped onto a fermionic quantum field theory in a similar way. The natural system to apply all of this to is superstring theory, and we find that all classical states of a classical, deterministic string propagating in a rectangular, D dimensional space-time lattice, with some boolean variables on it, can be mapped onto the elements of a specially chosen basis for a (quantized) D dimensional superstring. This string is moderated ("regularized") by a 1+1 dimensional lattice on its world sheet, which may subsequently be sent to the continuum limit. The space-time lattice in target space is not sent to the continuum, while this does not seem to reduce its physically desirable features, including Lorentz invariance. We claim that our observations add a new twist to discussions concerning the interpretation of quantum mechanics, which we call the cellular automaton (CA) interpretation. Detailed discussions of this interpretation, and in particular its relation to the Bell inequalities, are now included.

id: 1207.3617
title: Comment on "New Scaling of Child-Langmuir Law in the Quantum Regime"
authors: Debabrata Biswas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3617
abstract: In their letter on the quantum Child-Langmuir law, Ang, Kwan and Lau (Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 208303 (2003)) include exchange correlation effects within the Kohn-Sham density functional theory and explore numerically the maximum transmitted current in nanogaps. We show here that the calculations are in error as the exchange-correlation component of the chemical potential has been ignored while fixing the boundary conditions for the Hartree potential.

id: 1207.3639
title: Bound state in continuum like solutions in one-dimensional hetero-structures
authors: O. Panella, P. Roy
comments: 9 pages, two figures. Version to match the one to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett. A376 (2012) 2580-2583
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3639
abstract: We examine the one dimensional Dirac equation with modulated or position dependent velocity. In particular, it is shown that using suitable velocity profiles it is possible to create bound state in continuum (BIC) like, as well as, discrete energy bound state solutions.

id: 1207.3670
title: Efimov effect of triple-stranded DNA: Real-space renormalization group and Zeros of the partition function
authors: Jaya Maji, Somendra M. Bhattacharjee
comments: 10 pages, 12 pdf figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 041147 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3670
abstract: We study the melting of three-stranded DNA by using the real-space renormalization group and exact recursion relations. The prediction of an unusual Efimov-analog three-chain bound state, that appears at the critical melting of two-chain DNA, is corroborated by the zeros of the partition function. The distribution of the zeros has been studied in detail for various situations. We show that the Efimov DNA can occur even if the three-chain (i. e., three-monomer) interaction is repulsive in nature. In higher dimensions, a striking result that emerged in this repulsive zone is a continuous transition from the critical state to the Efimov DNA.

id: 1207.3753
title: Transverse electric conductivity in quantum degenerate collisional plasma in Mermin approach
authors: A. V. Latyshev, A. A. Yushkanov
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3753
abstract: Formulas for transverse conductance in quantum collisional plasma are deduced. The kinetic equation in momentum space in the relaxation approach is used. It is shown, that at Planck's constant tends to zero the derived formula transfers to the classical one. It is shown also, that when electron collision frequency tends to null (i.e. plasma becomes collisionless), the conductance formula transfers in the known formula inferred earlier by Lindhard.

id: 1207.3776
title: Decoherence mechanisms of 209Bi donor electron spins in isotopically pure 28Si
authors: Gary Wolfowicz, Stephanie Simmons, Alexei M. Tyryshkin, Richard E. George, Helge Riemann, Nikolai V. Abrosimov, Peter Becker, Hans-Joachim Pohl, Stephen A. Lyon, Mike L. W. Thewalt, John J. L. Morton
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3776
abstract: Bismuth (209Bi) is the deepest Group V donor in silicon and possesses the most extreme characteristics such as a 9/2 nuclear spin and a 1.5 GHz hyperfine coupling. These lead to several potential advantages for a Si:Bi donor electron spin qubit compared to the more common phosphorus donor. Previous studies on Si:Bi have been performed using natural silicon where linewidths and electron spin coherence times are limited by the presence of 29Si impurities. Here we describe electron spin resonance (ESR) and electron nuclear double resonance (ENDOR) studies on 209Bi in isotopically pure 28Si. ESR and ENDOR linewidths, transition probabilities and coherence times are understood in terms of the spin Hamiltonian parameters showing a dependence on field and mI of the 209Bi nuclear spin. We explore various decoherence mechanisms applicable to the donor electron spin, measuring coherence times up to 700 ms at 1.7 K at X-band, comparable with 28Si:P. The coherence times we measure follow closely the calculated field-sensitivity of the transition frequency, providing a strong motivation to explore 'clock' transitions where coherence lifetimes could be further enhanced.

id: 1207.3789
title: Level statistics of disordered spin-1/2 systems and its implications for materials with localized Cooper pairs
authors: Emilio Cuevas, Mikhail Feigel'man, Lev Ioffe, Marc Mezard
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures, original version of the paper accepted for publication (in slightly revised form) in Nature Communications
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3789
abstract: The origin of continuous energy spectra in large disordered interacting quantum systems is one of the key unsolved problems in quantum physics. While small quantum systems with discrete energy levels are noiseless and stay coherent forever in the absence of any coupling to external world, most large-scale quantum systems are able to produce thermal bath and excitation decay. This intrinsic decoherence is manifested by a broadening of energy levels which aquire a finite width. The important question is what is the driving force and the mechanism of transition(s) between two different types of many-body systems - with and without intrinsic decoherence? Here we address this question via the numerical study of energy level statistics of a system of spins-1/2 with anisotropic exchange interactions and random transverse fields. Our results present the first evidence for a well-defined quantum phase transition between domains of discrete and continous many-body spectra in a class of random spin models. Because this model also describes the physics of the superconductor-insulator transition in disordered superconductors like InO and similar materials, our results imply the appearance of novel insulating phases in the vicinity of this transition.

id: 1207.3817
title: Mean-field dynamics of two-mode Bose-Einstein condensates in highly anisotropic potentials: Interference, dimensionality, and entanglement
authors: Alexandre B. Tacla, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 35 pages, 10 figures. Current version is as published
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 023008
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3817
abstract: We study the mean-field dynamics and the reduced-dimension character of two-mode Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) in highly anisotropic traps. By means of perturbative techniques, we show that the tightly confined (transverse) degrees of freedom can be decoupled from the dynamical equations at the expense of introducing additional effective three-body, attractive, intra- and inter-mode interactions into the dynamics of the loosely confined (longitudinal) degrees of freedom. These effective interactions are mediated by changes in the transverse wave function. The perturbation theory is valid as long as the nonlinear scattering energy is small compared to the transverse energy scales. This approach leads to reduced-dimension mean-field equations that optimally describe the evolution of a two-mode condensate in general quasi-1D and quasi-2D geometries. We use this model to investigate the relative phase and density dynamics of a two-mode, cigar-shaped $^{87}$Rb BEC. We study the relative-phase dynamics in the context of a nonlinear Ramsey interferometry scheme, which has recently been proposed as a novel platform for high-precision interferometry. Numerical integration of the coupled, time-dependent, three-dimensional, two-mode Gross-Pitaevskii equations for various atom numbers shows that this model gives a considerably more refined analytical account of the mean-field evolution than an idealized quasi-1D description.

id: 1207.3880
title: One-counter verifiers for decidable languages
authors: Abuzer Yakaryilmaz
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3880
abstract: Condon and Lipton (FOCS 1989) showed that the class of languages having a space-bounded interactive proof system (IPS) is a proper subset of decidable languages, where the verifier is a probabilistic Turing machine. In this paper, we show that if we use architecturally restricted verifiers instead of restricting the working memory, i.e. replacing the working tape(s) with a single counter, we can define some IPS's for each decidable language. Such verifiers are called two-way probabilistic one-counter automata (2pca's). Then, we show that by adding a fixed-size quantum memory to a 2pca, called a two-way one-counter automaton with quantum and classical states (2qcca), the protocol can be space efficient. As a further result, if the 2qcca can use a quantum counter instead of a classical one, then the protocol can even be public, also known as Arthur-Merlin games. We also investigate the computational power of 2pca's and 2qcca's as language recognizers. We show that bounded-error 2pca's can be more powerful than their deterministic counterparts by giving a bounded-error simulation of their nondeterministic counterparts. Then, we present a new programming technique for bounded-error 2qcca's and show that they can recognize a language which seems not to be recognized by any bounded-error 2pca. We also obtain some interesting results for bounded-error 1-pebble quantum finite automata based on this new technique. Lastly, we prove a conjecture posed by Ravikumar (FSTTCS 1992) regarding 1-pebble probabilistic finite automata, i.e. they can recognize some nonstochastic languages with bounded error.

id: 1207.3897
title: Testing one-body density functionals on a solvable model
authors: Carlos L. Benavides-Riveros, Joseph C. V¨¢rilly
comments: Latex, 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2012) 66: 274
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3897
abstract: There are several physically motivated density matrix functionals in the literature, built from the knowledge of the natural orbitals and the occupation numbers of the one-body reduced density matrix. With the help of the equivalent phase-space formalism, we thoroughly test some of the most popular of those functionals on a completely solvable model.

id: 1207.3957
title: Entanglement entropy for the long range Ising chain
authors: Thomas Koffel, M. Lewenstein, Luca Tagliacozzo
comments: 5 pages, all comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 267203 2012
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3957
abstract: We consider the Ising model in a transverse field with long-range antiferromagnetic interactions that decay as a power law with their distance. We study both the phase diagram and the entanglement properties as a function of the exponent of the interaction. The phase diagram can be used as a guide for future experiments with trapped ions. We find two gapped phases, one dominated by the transverse field, exhibiting quasi long range order, and one dominated by the long range interaction, with long range N\'eel ordered ground states. We determine the location of the quantum critical points separating those two phases. We determine their critical exponents and central-charges. In the phase with quasi long range order the ground states exhibit exotic corrections to the area law for the entanglement entropy coexisting with gapped entanglement spectra.

id: 1207.3963
title: Density-induced processes in quantum gas mixtures in optical lattices
authors: Ole J¨¹rgensen, Klaus Sengstock, Dirk-S?ren L¨¹hmann
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043623 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3963
abstract: We show that off-site processes and multi-orbital physics have a crucial impact on the phase diagram of quantum gas mixtures in optical lattices. In particular, we discuss Bose-Fermi mixtures where the intra- and interspecies interactions induce competing density-induced hopping processes, the so-called bond-charge interactions. Furthermore, higher bands strongly influence tunneling and on-site interactions. We apply a multi-orbital interaction-induced dressing of the lowest band which leads to renormalized hopping processes. These corrections give rise to an extended Hubbard model with intrinsically occupation-dependent parameters. The resulting decrease of the tunneling competes with a decrease of the total on-site interaction energy both affecting the critical lattice depth of the superfluid to Mott insulator transition. In contrast to the standard Bose-Fermi-Hubbard model, we predict a large shift of the transition to shallower lattice depths with increasing Bose-Fermi attraction. The applied theoretical model allows an accurate prediction of the modified tunneling amplitudes and the critical lattice depth both recently observed experimentally.

id: 1207.4188
title: Renyi Entropy of the Interacting Fermi Liquid
authors: Jeremy McMinis, Norm M. Tubman
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 081108(R) (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4188
abstract: We perform quantum Monte Carlo calculations to determine how the Renyi entropies, $S_n$, of the interacting Fermi liquid depend on Renyi order, $n$, and scale as a function of system size, $L$. Using the swap operator and an accurate Slater-Jastrow wave function, we compute Renyi entropies for spinless fermions interacting via the Coulomb and modified P\"{o}schl-Teller potentials across a range of correlation strengths. Our results show that interactions increase the Renyi entropies and increase the prefactor of their scaling laws. The relationships between Renyi entropies of different order $n$ are also modified. Additionally, we investigate the effect of the swap operator on the Fermi liquid wave function to determine the source of the $L\log L$ scaling form.

id: 1207.4231
title: Self-trapping in an array of coupled 1D Bose gases
authors: Aaron Reinhard, Jean-F¨¦lix Riou, Laura A. Zundel, David S. Weiss, Shuming Li, Ana Maria Rey, Rafael Hipolito
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4231
abstract: We study the transverse expansion of arrays of ultracold $^{87}$Rb atoms weakly confined in tubes created by a 2D optical lattice, and observe that transverse expansion is delayed because of mutual atom interactions. A mean-field model of a coupled array shows that atoms become localized within a roughly square fort-like self-trapping barrier with time-evolving edges. But the observed dynamics is poorly described by the mean-field model. Theoretical introduction of random phase fluctuations among tubes improves the agreement with experiment, but does not correctly predict the density at which the atoms start to expand with larger lattice depths. Our results suggest a new type of self-trapping, where quantum correlations suppress tunneling even when there are no density gradients.

id: 1207.4251
title: Vibrational and electronic ultrafast relaxation of the nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond
authors: V. M. Huxter, T. A. A. Oliver, D. Budker, G. R. Fleming
comments: Conference Proceeding, 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4251
abstract: Two dimensional electronic spectroscopy and transient grating measurements were performed, for the first time, on nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond. These measurements reveal energy transfer and vibrational pathways with consequences for spin coherence.

id: 1207.4285
title: Electron interference and entanglement in coupled 1D systems with noise
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone, Andrea Bertoni
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures. v2: added some references and corrected text
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2012) 66: 312
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4285
abstract: We estimate the role of noise in the formation of entanglement and in the appearance of single- and two-electron interference in systems of coupled one-dimensional channels semiconductors. Two cases are considered: a single-particle interferometer and a two-particle interferometer exploiting Coulomb interaction. In both of them, environmental noise yields a randomization of the carrier phases. Our results assess how that the complementarity relation linking single-particle behavior to nonlocal quantities, such as entanglement and environment-induced decoherence, acts in electron interferometry. We show that, in a experimental implementation of the setups examined, one- and two-electron detection probability at the output drains can be used to evaluate the decoherence phenomena and the degree of entanglement.

id: 1207.4299
title: Parity qubits and poor man's Majorana bound states in double quantum dots
authors: Martin Leijnse, Karsten Flensberg
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B. 86, 134528 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4299
abstract: We study a double quantum dot connected via a common superconducting lead and show that this system can be tuned to host one Majorana bound state (MBS) on each dot. We call them "poor man's Majorana bound states" since they are not topologically protected, but otherwise share the properties of MBS formed in topological superconductors. We describe the conditions for the existence of the two spatially separated MBS, which include breaking of spin degeneracy in the two dots, with the spins polarized in different directions. Therefore, we propose to use a magnetic field configuration where the field directions on the two dot form an angle. By control of this angle the cross Andreev reflection and the tunnel amplitudes can be tuned to be approximately equal, which is a requirement for the formation of the MBS. We show that the fermionic state encoded in the two Majoranas constitutes a parity qubit, which is non-local and can only be measured by probing both dots simultaneously. Using a many-particle basis for the MBS, we discuss the role of interactions and show that inter-dot interactions always lift the degeneracy. We also show how the MBS can be probed by transport measurements and discuss how the combination of several such double dot systems allows for entanglement of parity qubits and measurement of their dephasing times.

id: 1207.4328
title: Quantum-like Tests for Contextual Querying
authors: Zeno Toffano, Bich-Lien Doan
comments: 11 pages, 5 tables
journal: 
subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4328
abstract: Tests are essential in Information Retrieval (IR), in order to evaluate the effectiveness of a query. Tests intended to exhibit the sense of words in con-text were undertaken and linked with Quantum Mechanics (QM). Poll tests were undertaken on heterogeneous media such as music and polysemy in foreign languages. Interference effects are shown in the results. Bell inequality was used leading to a significant spread in the results of the poll tests but without violating the classical limit. Then an automatic pertinence measure tool on texts has been developed using the HAL algorithm using an orthonormal vector decomposition model. In this case the spread in the values can lead to the violation of the Bell inequality even beyond Cirel'son bound.

id: 1207.4403
title: Realization of GHz-frequency impedance matching circuits for nano-scale devices
authors: G. Puebla-Hellmann, A. Wallraff
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters, 101, 053108 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4403
abstract: Integrating nano-scale objects, such as single molecules or carbon nanotubes, into impedance transformers and performing radio-frequency measurements allows for high time-resolution transport measurements with improved signal-to-noise ratios. The realization of such transformers implemented with superconducting transmission lines for the 2-10 GHz frequency range is presented here. Controlled electromigration of an integrated gold break junction is used to characterize a 6 GHz impedance matching device. The real part of the RF impedance of the break junction extracted from microwave reflectometry at a maximum bandwidth of 45 MHz of the matching circuit is in good agreement with the measured direct current resistance.

id: 1207.4473
title: Quantum mechanics in fractional and other anomalous spacetimes
authors: Gianluca Calcagni, Giuseppe Nardelli, Marco Scalisi
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure. v2: typos corrected
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 102110 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4473
abstract: We formulate quantum mechanics in spacetimes with real-order fractional geometry and more general factorizable measures. In spacetimes where coordinates and momenta span the whole real line, Heisenberg's principle is proven and the wave-functions minimizing the uncertainty are found. In spite of the fact that ordinary time and spatial translations are broken and the dynamics is not unitary, the theory is in one-to-one correspondence with a unitary one, thus allowing us to employ standard tools of analysis. These features are illustrated in the examples of the free particle and the harmonic oscillator. While fractional (and the more general anomalous-spacetime) free models are formally indistinguishable from ordinary ones at the classical level, at the quantum level they differ both in the Hilbert space and for a topological term fixing the classical action in the path integral formulation. Thus, all non-unitarity in fractional quantum dynamics is encoded in a contribution depending only on the initial and final state.

id: 1207.4479
title: Topological Flat Bands from Dipolar Spin Systems
authors: Norman Y. Yao, Chris R. Laumann, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Steven D. Bennett, Eugene Demler, Peter Zoller, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. V2: Added discussion of optical dressing - final version as published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 266804 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4479
abstract: We propose and analyze a physical system that naturally admits two-dimensional topological nearly flat bands. Our approach utilizes an array of three-level dipoles (effective S = 1 spins) driven by inhomogeneous electromagnetic fields. The dipolar interactions produce arbitrary uniform background gauge fields for an effective collection of conserved hardcore bosons, namely, the dressed spin-flips. These gauge fields result in topological band structures, whose bandgap can be larger than the corresponding bandwidth. Exact diagonalization of the full interacting Hamiltonian at half-filling reveals the existence of superfluid, crystalline, and supersolid phases. An experimental realization using either ultra-cold polar molecules or spins in the solid state is considered.

id: 1207.4563
title: Higher Quantum Theory
authors: Jamie Vicary
comments: 46 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4563
abstract: We propose a 2-categorical formalism for describing classical information, quantum systems, and their interactions, based on the principle that classical information can be encoded as correlations between quantum systems. Applying this in the 2-category of 2-Hilbert spaces recovers ordinary quantum theory. The formalism gives a simple, graphical way to describe the specification and implementation of certain quantum procedures, which we use to investigate quantum teleportation, dense coding, complementarity and quantum erasure, verifying our results computationally using a software package.

id: 1207.4565
title: Imaging electronic quantum motion with light
authors: Gopal Dixit, Oriol Vendrell, Robin Santra
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, vol. 109, no. 29, pages 11636-11640, 2012
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4565
abstract: Imaging the quantum motion of electrons not only in real-time, but also in real-space is essential to understand for example bond breaking and formation in molecules, and charge migration in peptides and biological systems. Time-resolved imaging interrogates the unfolding electronic motion in such systems. We find that scattering patterns, obtained by X-ray time-resolved imaging from an electronic wavepacket, encode spatial and temporal correlations that deviate substantially from the common notion of the instantaneous electronic density as the key quantity being probed. Surprisingly, the patterns provide an unusually visual manifestation of the quantum nature of light. This quantum nature becomes central only for non-stationary electronic states and has profound consequences for time-resolved imaging.

id: 1207.4580
title: Low rank approximation for the numerical simulation of high dimensional Lindblad and Riccati equations
authors: Claude Le Bris, Pierre Rouchon
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4580
abstract: A systematic numerical approach to approximate high dimensional Lindblad equations is described. It is based on a deterministic rank m approximation of the density operator, the rank m being the only parameter to adjust. From a known initial value, this rank m approximation gives at each time-step an estimate of the largest m eigen-values with their eigen-vectors of the density operator. A numerical scheme is proposed. Its numerical efficiency in the case of a rank 12 approximation is demonstrated for oscillation revivals of 50 atoms interacting resonantly with a slightly damped coherent quantized field of 200 photons. The approach may be employed for other similar equations. We in particularly show how to adapt such low-rank approximation for Riccati differential equations appearing in Kalman filtering.

id: 1207.4623
title: Entanglement production in non-ideal cavities and optimal opacity
authors: Dario Villamaina, Pierpaolo Vivo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures + supplementary material with one figure. Major revisions. Title and abstract changed. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0712.0623 by other authors
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 041301 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4623
abstract: We compute analytically the distributions of concurrence $\bm{\mathcal{C}}$ and squared norm $\bm{\mathcal{N}}$ for the production of electronic entanglement in a chaotic quantum dot. The dot is connected to the external world via one ideal and one partially transparent lead, characterized by the opacity $\gamma$. The average concurrence increases with $\gamma$ while the average squared norm of the entangled state decreases, making it less likely to be detected. When a minimal detectable norm $\bm{\mathcal{N}}_0$ is required, the average concurrence is maximal for an optimal value of the opacity $\gamma^\star(\bm{\mathcal{N}}_0)$ which is explicitly computed as a function of $\bm{\mathcal{N}}_0$. If $\bm{\mathcal{N}}_0$ is larger than the critical value $\bm{\mathcal{N}}_0^\star\simeq 0.3693\dots$, the average entanglement production is maximal for the completely ideal case, a direct consequence of an interesting bifurcation effect.

id: 1207.4627
title: Two-body momentum correlations in a weakly interacting one-dimensional Bose gas
authors: I. Bouchoule, M. Arzamasovs, K. V. Kheruntsyan, D. M. Gangardt
comments: Final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033626 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4627
abstract: We analyze the two-body momentum correlation function for a uniform weakly interacting one-dimensional Bose gas. We show that the strong positive correlation between opposite momenta, expected in a Bose-Einstein condensate with a true long-range order, almost vanishes in a phase-fluctuating quasicondensate where the long-range order is destroyed. Using the Luttinger liquid approach, we derive an analytic expression for the momentum correlation function in the quasicondensate regime, showing (i) the reduction and broadening of the opposite-momentum correlations (compared to the singular behavior in a true condensate) and (ii) an emergence of anticorrelations at small momenta. We also numerically investigate the momentum correlations in the crossover between the quasicondensate and the ideal Bose-gas regimes using a classical field approach and show how the anticorrelations gradually disappear in the ideal-gas limit.

id: 1207.4645
title: Nonlinear oscillators and high fidelity qubit state measurement in circuit quantum electrodynamics
authors: Eran Ginossar, Lev S. Bishop, S. M. Girvin
comments: A chapter for the book "Fluctuating Nonlinear Oscillators. From nanomechanics to quantum superconducting circuits", ed. M. I. Dykman, to be published by Oxford University Press, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4645
abstract: In this book chapter we analyze the high excitation nonlinear response of the Jaynes-Cummings model in quantum optics when the qubit and cavity are strongly coupled. We focus on the parameter ranges appropriate for transmon qubits in the circuit quantum electrodynamics architecture, where the system behaves essentially as a nonlinear quantum oscillator and we analyze the quantum and semi-classical dynamics. One of the central motivations is that under strong excitation tones, the nonlinear response can lead to qubit quantum state discrimination and we present initial results for the cases when the qubit and cavity are on resonance or far off-resonance (dispersive).

id: 1207.4699
title: A two-band Bose-Hubbard model for many-body resonant tunneling in the Wannier-Stark system
authors: Carlos A. Parra-Murillo, Javier Madro?ero, Sandro Wimberger
comments: much extended and improved version (13 pages, 10 figures); comments are very welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032119 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4699
abstract: We study an experimentally realizable paradigm of complex many-body quantum systems, a two-band Wannier-Stark model, for which diffusion in Hilbert space as well as many-body Landau-Zener processes can be engineered. A cross-over between regular to quantum chaotic spectra is found within the many-body avoided crossings at resonant tunneling conditions. The spectral properties are shown to determine the evolution of states across a cascade of Landau-Zener events. We apply the obtained spectral information to study the non-equilibrium dynamics of our many-body system in different parameter regimes.

id: 1207.4713
title: Direct evaporative cooling of 39K atoms to Bose-Einstein condensation
authors: Manuele Landini, Sanjukta Roy, Giacomo Roati, Andrea Simoni, Massimo Inguscio, Giovanni Modugno, Marco Fattori
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4713
abstract: We report the realization of Bose-Einstein condensates of 39K atoms without the aid of an additional atomic coolant. Our route to Bose-Einstein condensation comprises Sub Doppler laser cooling of large atomic clouds with more than 10^10 atoms and evaporative cooling in optical dipole traps where the collisional cross section can be increased using magnetic Feshbach resonances. Large condensates with almost 10^6 atoms can be produced in less than 15 seconds. Our achievements eliminate the need for sympathetic cooling with Rb atoms which was the usual route implemented till date due to the unfavourable collisional property of 39K. Our findings simplify the experimental set-up for producing Bose-Einstein condensates of 39K atoms with tunable interactions, which have a wide variety of promising applications including atom-interferometry to studies on the interplay of disorder and interactions in quantum gases.

id: 1207.4741
title: Steady-state many-body entanglement of hot reactive fermions
authors: Michael Foss-Feig, Andrew J. Daley, James K. Thompson, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 109, 230501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4741
abstract: Entanglement is typically created via systematic intervention in the time evolution of an initially unentangled state, which can be achieved by coherent control, carefully tailored non-demolition measurements, or dissipation in the presence of properly engineered reservoirs. In this paper we show that two-component Fermi gases at ~\mu K temperatures naturally evolve, in the presence of reactive two-body collisions, into states with highly entangled (Dicke-type) spin wavefunctions. The entanglement is a steady-state property that emerges---without any intervention---from uncorrelated initial states, and could be used to improve the accuracy of spectroscopy in experiments with fermionic alkaline earth atoms or fermionic groundstate molecules.

id: 1207.4742
title: Landau-Zener-St¨¹ckelberg interferometry in pair production from counterpropagating lasers
authors: Fran?ois Fillion-Gourdeau, Emmanuel Lorin, Andr¨¦ D. Bandrauk
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032118 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4742
abstract: The rate of electron-positron pair production in linearly polarized counter-propagating lasers is evaluated from a recently discovered solution of the time-dependent Dirac equation. The latter is solved in momentum space where it is formally equivalent to the Schr\"odinger equation describing a strongly driven two-level system. The solution is found from a simple transformation of the Dirac equation and is given in compact form in terms of the doubly-confluent Heun's function. By using the analogy with the two-level system, it is shown that for high-intensity lasers, pair production occurs through periodic non-adiabatic transitions when the adiabatic energy gap is minimal. These transitions give rise to an intricate interference pattern in the pair spectrum, reminiscent of the Landau-Zener-St\"uckelberg phenomenon in molecular physics: the accumulated phase result in constructive or destructive interference. The adiabatic-impulse model is used to study this phenomenon and shows an excellent agreement with the exact result.

id: 1207.4760
title: Enhancing strong-field induced molecular vibration with femtosecond pulse shaping
authors: Martin Bitter, Evgeny A. Shapiro, Valery Milner
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures, experimental and theoretical study
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4760
abstract: This work investigates the utility of femtosecond pulse shaping in increasing the efficiency of Raman excitation of molecules in the strong-field interaction regime. We study experimentally and theoretically the effect of pulse shaping on the strength of non-resonant coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering in iodine vapor at laser intensities exceeding $10^{13}$ W/cm$^2$. We show that unlike the perturbative case, shaping strong non-resonant laser pulses can increase the signal strength beyond that observed with the transform-limited excitation. Both adiabatic and non-adiabatic schemes of excitation are explored, and the differences of their potential in increasing the excitation efficiency are discussed.

id: 1207.4777
title: Emergent thermodynamics in a quenched quantum many-body system
authors: Ross Dorner, John Goold, Cecilia Cormick, Mauro Paternostro, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 160601 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4777
abstract: We study the statistics of the work done, the fluctuation relations and the irreversible entropy production in a quantum many-body system subject to the sudden quench of a control parameter. By treating the quench as a thermodynamic transformation we show that the emergence of irreversibility in the nonequilibrium dynamics of closed many-body quantum systems can be accurately characterized. We demonstrate our ideas by considering a transverse quantum Ising model that is taken out of equilibrium by the instantaneous switching of the transverse field.

id: 1207.4913
title: A proof of Bell's inequality in quantum mechanics using causal interactions
authors: James M. Robins, Tyler J. VanderWeele, Richard D. Gill
comments: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Applications (stat.AP); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4913
abstract: We give a simple proof of Bell's inequality in quantum mechanics which, in conjunction with experiments, demonstrates that the local hidden variables assumption is false. The proof sheds light on relationships between the notion of causal interaction and interference between particles.

id: 1207.4964
title: Simple microwave field imaging technique using hot atomic vapor cells
authors: Pascal B?hi, Philipp Treutlein
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters 101, 181107 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4964
abstract: We demonstrate a simple technique for microwave field imaging using alkali atoms in a vapor cell. The microwave field to be measured drives Rabi oscillations on atomic hyperfine transitions, which are detected in a spatially resolved way using a laser beam and a camera. Our vapor cell geometry enables single-shot recording of two-dimensional microwave field images with 350 {\mu}m spatial resolution. Using microfabricated vapor cell arrays, a resolution of a few micrometers seems feasible. All vector components of the microwave magnetic field can be imaged. Our apparatus is simple and compact and does not require cryogenics or ultra-high vacuum.

id: 1207.4972
title: Phonon-Assisted Incoherent Excitation of a Quantum Dot and its Emission Properties
authors: S. Weiler, A. Ulhaq, C. Roy, S. M. Ulrich, D. Richter, M. Jetter, S. Hughes, P. Michler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4972
abstract: We present a detailed study of a phonon-assisted incoherent excitation mechanism of single quantum dots. A spectrally-detuned laser couples to a quantum dot transition by mediation of acoustic phonons, whereby excitation efficiencies up to 20 % with respect to strictly resonant excitation can be achieved at T = 9 K. Laser frequency-dependent analysis of the quantum dot intensity distinctly maps the underlying acoustic phonon bath and shows good agreement with our polaron master equation theory. An analytical solution for the photoluminescence is introduced which predicts a broadband incoherent coupling process when electron-phonon scattering is in the strong phonon coupling (polaronic) regime. Additionally, we investigate the coherence properties of the emitted light and study the impact of the relevant pump and phonon bath parameters.

id: 1207.4985
title: Supersymmetry, shape invariance and the Legendre equations
authors: D. Bazeia, Ashok Das
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; to appear in PLB
journal: Physics Letters B 715 (2012) 256-259
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4985
abstract: In three space dimensions, when a physical system possesses spherical symmetry, the dynamical equations automatically lead to the Legendre and the associated Legendre equations, with the respective orthogonal polynomials as their standard solutions. This is a very general and important result and appears in many problems in physics (for example, the multipole expansion etc). We study these equations from an operator point of view, much like the harmonic oscillator, and show that there is an underlying shape invariance symmetry in these systems responsible for their solubility. We bring out various interesting features resulting from this analysis from the shape invariance point of view.

id: 1207.4987
title: A note on the discrete-time evolutions of quantum walk on a graph
authors: Yusuke Higuchi, Norio Konno, Iwao Sato, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 11 pages, revised version, title changed, Journal-ref added
journal: Journal of Math-for-Industry, Vol.5 (2013B-3), pp.103-109 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.4987
abstract: For a quantum walk on a graph, there exist many kinds of operators for the discrete-time evolution. We give a general relation between the characteristic polynomial of the evolution matrix of a quantum walk on edges and that of a kind of transition matrix of a classical random walk on vertices. Furthermore we determine the structure of the positive support of the cube of some evolution matrix, which is said to be useful for isospectral problem in graphs, under a certain condition.

id: 1207.5046
title: Fermionic current from topology and boundaries with applications to higher-dimensional models and nanophysics
authors: S. Bellucci, A. A. Saharian
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87 (2013) 025005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5046
abstract: We investigate combined effects of topology and boundaries on the vacuum expectation value (VEV) of the fermionic current in the space with an arbitrary number of toroidally compactified dimensions. As a geometry of boundaries we consider two parallel plates on which the fermion field obeys bag boundary conditions. Along the compact dimensions, periodicity conditions are imposed with arbitrary phases. In addition, the presence of a constant gauge field is assumed. The nontrivial topology gives rise to an Aharonov-Bohm effect for the fermionic current induced by the gauge field. It is shown that the VEV of the charge density vanishes and the current density has nonzero expectation values for the components along compact dimensions only. The latter are periodic odd functions of the magnetic flux with the period equal to the flux quantum. In the region between the plates, the VEV of the fermionic current is decomposed into pure topological, single plate and interference parts. For a massless field the single plate part vanishes and the interference part is distributed uniformly. The corresponding results are generalized for conformally-flat spacetimes. Applications of the general formulas to finite-length carbon nanotubes are given within the framework of the Dirac model for quasiparticles in graphene. In the absence of the magnetic flux, two sublattices of the honeycomb graphene lattice yield opposite contributions and the fermionic current vanishes. A magnetic flux through the cross section of the nanotube breaks the symmetry allowing the current to flow along the compact dimension.

id: 1207.5052
title: A Wang-Landau method for calculating Renyi entropies in finite-temperature quantum Monte Carlo simulations
authors: Stephen Inglis, Roger G. Melko
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 013306 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5052
abstract: We implement a Wang-Landau sampling technique in quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) for the purpose of calculating the Renyi entanglement entropies and associated mutual information. The algorithm converges an estimate for an analogue to the density of states for Stochastic Series Expansion QMC allowing a direct calculation of Renyi entropies without explicit thermodynamic integration. We benchmark results for the mutual information on two-dimensional (2D) isotropic and anisotropic Heisenberg models, 2D transverse field Ising model, and 3D Heisenberg model, confirming a critical scaling of the mutual information in cases with a finite-temperature transition. We discuss the benefits and limitations of broad sampling techniques compared to standard importance sampling methods.

id: 1207.5059
title: Non-local double-path Casimir phase in atom interferometers
authors: Fran?ois Impens, Ryan O. Behunin, Claudio Ccapa Ttira, Paulo A. Maia Neto
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Final version, published in the Europhysics Letters
journal: EPL 101, 60006 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5059
abstract: We present a quantum open system theory of atom interferometers evolving in the quantized electromagnetic field bounded by an ideal conductor. Our treatment reveals an unprecedented feature of matter-wave propagation, namely the appearance of a non-local double-path phase coherence. Such a non-local phase arises from the coarse-graining over the quantized electromagnetic field and internal atomic degrees of freedom, yielding a non-Hamiltonian evolution of the atomic waves moving in presence of correlated quantum dipole and field fluctuations. We develop a diagrammatic interpretation of this phase, and estimate it for realistic experimental parameters.

id: 1207.5103
title: Statistics, Causality and Bell's Theorem
authors: Richard D. Gill
comments: Published in at this http URL the Statistical Science (this http URL) by the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (this http URL)
journal: Statistical Science 2014, Vol. 29, No. 4, 512-528
subjects: Applications (stat.AP); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Methodology (stat.ME)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5103
abstract: Bell's [Physics 1 (1964) 195-200] theorem is popularly supposed to establish the nonlocality of quantum physics. Violation of Bell's inequality in experiments such as that of Aspect, Dalibard and Roger [Phys. Rev. Lett. 49 (1982) 1804-1807] provides empirical proof of nonlocality in the real world. This paper reviews recent work on Bell's theorem, linking it to issues in causality as understood by statisticians. The paper starts with a proof of a strong, finite sample, version of Bell's inequality and thereby also of Bell's theorem, which states that quantum theory is incompatible with the conjunction of three formerly uncontroversial physical principles, here referred to as locality, realism and freedom. Locality is the principle that the direction of causality matches the direction of time, and that causal influences need time to propagate spatially. Realism and freedom are directly connected to statistical thinking on causality: they relate to counterfactual reasoning, and to randomisation, respectively. Experimental loopholes in state-of-the-art Bell type experiments are related to statistical issues of post-selection in observational studies, and the missing at random assumption. They can be avoided by properly matching the statistical analysis to the actual experimental design, instead of by making untestable assumptions of independence between observed and unobserved variables. Methodological and statistical issues in the design of quantum Randi challenges (QRC) are discussed. The paper argues that Bell's theorem (and its experimental confirmation) should lead us to relinquish not locality, but realism.

id: 1207.5128
title: Exact quantum dynamics of bosons with finite-range time-dependent interactions of harmonic type
authors: Axel U. J. Lode, Kaspar Sakmann, Ofir E. Alon, Lorenz S. Cederbaum, Alexej I. Streltsov
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063606 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5128
abstract: The exactly solvable quantum many-particle model with harmonic one- and two-particle interaction terms is extended to include time-dependency. We show that when the external trap potential and finite-range interparticle interaction have a time-dependency the exact solutions of the corresponding time-dependent many-boson Schr\"odinger equation are still available. We use these exact solutions to benchmark the recently developed multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree method for bosons (MCTDHB) [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 99}, 030402 (2007), Phys. Rev. A {\bf 77}, 033613 (2008)]. In particular, we benchmark the MCTDHB method for: (i) the ground state; (ii) the breathing many-body dynamics activated by a quench scenario where the interparticle interaction strength is suddenly turned on to a finite value; (iii) the non-equilibrium dynamic for driven scenarios where both the trap- and interparticle-interaction potentials are {\it time-dependent}. Excellent convergence of the ground state and dynamics is demonstrated. The great relevance of the self-consistency and time-adaptivity, which are the intrinsic features of the MCTDHB method, is demonstrated by contrasting the MCTDHB predictions and those obtained within the standard full configuration interaction method spanning the Fock space of the same size, but utilizing as one-particle basis set the fixed-shape eigenstates of the one-particle potential. Connections of the model's results to ultra-cold Bose-Einstein condensed systems are addressed.

id: 1207.5135
title: Bound state solutions of the Manning-Rosen potential
authors: B.J. Falaye, K. J. Oyewumi, T. T. Ibrahim, M. A. Punyasena, C. A. Onate
comments: 14 pages, 6 tables
journal: Canadian Journal of Physics (2013) 91(1): 98-104
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5135
abstract: Using the asymptotic iteration method (AIM), we have obtained analytical approximations to the $\ell$-wave solutions of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation with the Manning-Rosen potential. The equation of energy eigenvalues equation and the corresponding wavefunctions have been obtained explicitly. Three different Pekeris-type approximation schemes have been used to deal with the centrifugal term. To show the accuracy of our results, we have calculated the eigenvalues numerically for arbitrary quantum numbers $n$ and $\ell$ for some diatomic molecules (HCl, CH, LiH and CO). It is found that the results are in good agreement with other results found in the literature. A straightforward extension to the s-wave case and Hulth$\acute{e}$n potential case are also presented.

id: 1207.5198
title: Golden Ratio estimate of success probability based on one and only sample
authors: Sun Ping
comments: 13 pages, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5198
abstract: This paper proposes iterative Bayesian method to estimate success probability based on unique sample. The procedure is replacing the distribution characteristic of prior with Bayes estimate on the every iteration until they coincide. Iterative Bayes estimate is generally independent of hyperparameters. For binomial, Poisson, exponential and normal model, iterative limit is shown to be MLE in case the expectation of conjugate prior is replaced respectively. Particularly, suppose success appears in one and only trial, while the mode of triangle prior is replaced iterative Bayesian method gives $1/\phi \approx 0.618$ ($\phi$ is Golden Ratio) as the estimate of success probability $p$, this result reveals the truth of Golden Ratio from the point of statistics. Furthermore, under triangle prior the unique sample $X$ from binomial model $B(n,p)$ is considered. Existence and uniqueness of iterative Bayes estimator $\hat{p}_{IB}$ for parameter $p$ is given.

id: 1207.5199
title: Estimate of the energy of vacuum fluctuations of non-Abelian gauge fields from the uncertainty relations
authors: S. Stepanow
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5199
abstract: We derive the commutation relations for field strengthes of the non-Abelian gauge fields by requiring that the quantum mechanical equations of motion coincide with the classical field equations. The equations of motion with respect to time derivative coincide with the corresponding field equations, while those with respect to space derivatives agree with classical field equations if constraint equations are fulfilled. Using the uncertainty relations for field strengthes at the same times, which follows from the commutation relations, we estimate the energy gap of vacuum fluctuations in the long wave limit as $\mathcal{E}_{0,k} \sim c\hbar\Lambda^{-2} V^{-1}(g^2/c\hbar)^{1/3}$ and the total energy $\mathcal{E}_0\sim \Lambda c\hbar(g^{2}/\hbar c)^{1/3}$ with $\Lambda $ being a cutoff separating the weak and strong coupling regimes.

id: 1207.5211
title: Can Quantum Communication Speed Up Distributed Computation?
authors: Michael Elkin, Hartmut Klauck, Danupon Nanongkai, Gopal Pandurangan
comments: Full version of PODC 2014 paper
journal: 
subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5211
abstract: The focus of this paper is on {\em quantum distributed} computation, where we investigate whether quantum communication can help in {\em speeding up} distributed network algorithms. Our main result is that for certain fundamental network problems such as minimum spanning tree, minimum cut, and shortest paths, quantum communication {\em does not} help in substantially speeding up distributed algorithms for these problems compared to the classical setting. In order to obtain this result, we extend the technique of Das Sarma et al. [SICOMP 2012] to obtain a uniform approach to prove non-trivial lower bounds for quantum distributed algorithms for several graph optimization (both exact and approximate versions) as well as verification problems, some of which are new even in the classical setting, e.g. tight randomized lower bounds for Hamiltonian cycle and spanning tree verification, answering an open problem of Das Sarma et al., and a lower bound in terms of the weight aspect ratio, matching the upper bounds of Elkin [STOC 2004]. Our approach introduces the {\em Server model} and {\em Quantum Simulation Theorem} which together provide a connection between distributed algorithms and communication complexity. The Server model is the standard two-party communication complexity model augmented with additional power; yet, most of the hardness in the two-party model is carried over to this new model. The Quantum Simulation Theorem carries this hardness further to quantum distributed computing. Our techniques, except the proof of the hardness in the Server model, require very little knowledge in quantum computing, and this can help overcoming a usual impediment in proving bounds on quantum distributed algorithms.

id: 1207.5294
title: Quantum Randi Challenge
authors: Sascha Vongehr
comments: 23 pages, plus Supplemental Material with 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5294
abstract: Observed violations of Bell type inequalities exclude all relativistic micro causal ("local"), counterfactual definite ("real") hidden variable models of nature. This further relativization of our concept of reality triggers a growing pseudoscientific resistance against quantum mechanics (QM). I define Didactic Randi Challenges (DRC) via five characteristics. These are challenges which, according to the laws of nature, are impossible to meet. They effectively refute pseudoscientific claims according to which the challenge could easily be met. DRC work by being known to exist while never having been overcome, despite the large rewards which would follow from meeting the challenge. Pseudoscience exploits well meaning engagement in argument to create the appearance of an expert dispute (sowing doubt). DRC decline to discuss "until the challenge is met", without solidifying the perception of establishment conspiracy. This requires transparency, thus DRC are efficient didactic tools. The Quantum Randi Challenge (QRC) is a DRC designed to reject hidden variable models by simply teaching QM; there is no bet or interaction with challengers. The QRC is a computer game that anybody can modify. The present version includes a simulation of true QM behavior that violates Bell 99% of the time, hidden variables that violate the Bell and CHSH inequality with 50% probability, and ones which violate Bell 85% of the time when missing 13% anti-correlation. The DRC challenge is to modify the hidden variables so that the predicted QM behavior arises, including anti-correlation. If such were possible, the presented programs would make it trivial to meet the challenge. This fact and the whole QRC can be taught to a wide audience via the presented heuristics. Demanding anti-correlation is argued to be superior to employing CHSH.

id: 1207.5299
title: On the Physical Realizability of a Class of Nonlinear Quantum Systems
authors: Aline I. Maalouf, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5299
abstract: In this paper, the physical realizability property is investigated for a class of nonlinear quantum systems. This property determines whether a given set of nonlinear quantum stochastic differential equations corresponds to a physical nonlinear quantum system satisfying the laws of quantum mechanics.

id: 1207.5302
title: Global Solutions of Certain Second-Order Differential Equations with a High Degree of Apparent Singularity
authors: Ryu Sasaki, Kouichi Takemura
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 085, 18 pages
subjects: Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5302
abstract: Infinitely many explicit solutions of certain second-order differential equations with an apparent singularity of characteristic exponent -2 are constructed by adjusting the parameter of the multi-indexed Laguerre polynomials.

id: 1207.5311
title: All-optical control of the spontaneous emission of quantum dots using coupled-cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: C. Y. Jin, M. Y. Swinkels, R. Johne, T. B. Hoang, L. Midolo, P. J. van Veldhoven, A. Fiore
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5311
abstract: We demonstrate the remote all-optical control of the spontaneous emission (SE) of quantum dots using coupled photonic crystal cavities. By spectrally tuning a Fabry-Perot cavity in resonance with a target cavity, the quality factor and the local density of states experienced by emitters in the target cavity are modified, leading to a change in the SE rate. From the theoretical analysis of the coupled-cavity quantum electrodynamics system, the SE rate change can be higher than the quality factor change due to a reduction of the vacuum field at the emitter's position when the two cavities are brought in resonance. Both the weak and strong coupling regimes of two cavities have been observed experimentally and the SE decay rate has been modified by more than a factor of three with remote optical control.

id: 1207.5429
title: Dimensional Effects on the Momentum distribution of Bosonic Trimer States
authors: F. F. Bellotti, T. Frederico, M. T. Yamashita, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013610 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5429
abstract: The momentum distribution is a powerful probe of strongly-interacting systems that are expected to display universal behavior. This is contained in the contact parameters which relate few- and many-body properties. Here we consider a Bose gas in two dimensions and explicitly show that the two-body contact parameter is universal and then demonstrate that the momentum distribution at next-to-leading order has a logarithmic dependence on momentum which is vastly different from the three-dimensional case. Based on this, we propose a scheme for measuring the effective dimensionality of a quantum many-body system by exploiting the functional form of the momentum distribution.

id: 1207.5463
title: PT-Symmetric Pseudo-Hermitian Relativistic Quantum Mechanics With a Maximal Mass
authors: V. N. Rodionov
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0708.4205, arXiv:0903.4420, and with arXiv:quant-ph/0605233 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5463
abstract: The quantum-field model described by non-Hermitian, but a ${\cal PT}$-symmetric Hamiltonian is considered. It is shown by the algebraic way that the limiting of the physical mass value $m \leq m_{max}= {m_1}^2/2m_2$ takes place for the case of a fermion field with a $\gamma_5$-dependent mass term ($m\rightarrow m_1 +\gamma_5 m_2 $). In the regions of unbroken $\cal PT$ symmetry the Hamiltonian $H$ has another symmetry represented by a linear operator $ \cal C$. We exactly construct this operator by using a non-perturbative method. In terms of $ \cal C$ operator we calculate a time-independent inner product with a positive-defined norm. As a consequence of finiteness mass spectrum we have the $\cal PT$-symmetric Hamiltonian in the areas $(m\leq m_{max})$, but beyond this limits $\cal PT$-symmetry is broken. Thus, we obtain that the basic results of the fermion field model with a $\gamma_5$-dependent mass term is equivalent to the Model with a Maximal Mass which for decades has been developed by V.Kadyshevsky and his colleagues. In their numerous papers the condition of finiteness of elementary particle mass spectrum was introduced in a purely geometric way, just as the velocity of light is a maximal velocity in the special relativity. The adequate geometrical realization of the limiting mass hypothesis is added up to the choice of (anti) de Sitter momentum space of the constant curvature.

id: 1207.5525
title: Unruh-DeWitt detector event rate for trajectories with time-dependent acceleration
authors: Luis C. Barbado, Matt Visser
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review D 86 (2012) 084011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5525
abstract: We analyse the response function of an Unruh--DeWitt detector moving with time-dependent acceleration along a one-dimensional trajectory in Minkowski spacetime. To extract the physics of the process, we propose an adiabatic expansion of this response function. This expansion is also a useful tool for computing the click rate of detectors in general trajectories. The expansion is done in powers of the time derivatives of the acceleration (jerk, snap, and higher derivatives). At the lowest order, we recover a Planckian spectrum with temperature proportional to the acceleration of the detector at each instant of the trajectory. Higher orders in the expansion involve powers of the derivatives of the acceleration, with well-behaved spectral coefficients with different shapes. Finally, we illustrate this analysis in the case of an initially inertial trajectory that acquires a given constant acceleration in a finite time.

id: 1207.5584
title: Multi-indexed Wilson and Askey-Wilson Polynomials
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 30 pages. Three references added. To appear in J.Phys.A. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1203.5868
journal: J. Phys. A46 (2013) 045204
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5584
abstract: As the third stage of the project multi-indexed orthogonal polynomials, we present, in the framework of 'discrete quantum mechanics' with pure imaginary shifts in one dimension, the multi-indexed Wilson and Askey-Wilson polynomials. They are obtained from the original Wilson and Askey-Wilson polynomials by multiple application of the discrete analogue of the Darboux transformations or the Crum-Krein-Adler deletion of 'virtual state solutions' of type I and II, in a similar way to the multi-indexed Laguerre, Jacobi and (q-)Racah polynomials reported earlier.

id: 1207.5585
title: Sequential Landau-Zener transitions in spin-orbit coupled systems
authors: Xiaolong Zhang, Jiahao Huang, Yuexia Zhang, Kelin Gao, Chaohong Lee
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5585
abstract: We investigate the Landau-Zener (LZ) process in spin-orbit coupled systems of single or multiple two-level (spin-$\frac{1}{2}$) particles. The coupling between internal spin states and external vibrational states, a simple spin-orbit coupling (SOC), is induced by applying a spin-dependent harmonic trap. Because of the SOC, the single-particle energy-level structures are modified by the Franck-Condon (FC) effects, in which some avoided energy-level-crossings (ELCs) are almost closed and some ELCs are opened. The close of avoided ELCs and the open of ELCs result in the FC blockade and the vibrational transitions, respectively. For a given low sweeping rate, the sequential LZ transitions of ladder-like population transition can be induced by strong SOC. We derive an analytical formula for the final population which is well consistent with the numerical results. For a given strong SOC, the sequential LZ transitions are submerged in the non-adiabatic transitions if the sweeping rate is sufficiently high. Further, we study LZ transitions of multiple interacting two-level Bose particles in a spin-dependent harmonic trap. The interplay between the SOC effects and the interaction effects is explored.

id: 1207.5602
title: Effect of dipole-dipole interaction in two atom systems : A steady state analysis
authors: Shaik Ahmed, Ashoka Vudayagiri, P. Anantha Lakshmi
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5602
abstract: The behaviour of a system of two two-level atoms, both identical as well as non-identical, under the influence of a continuously varying dipole-dipole coupling parameter for a wide range of other parameters such as the atomic level separations and the coupling strength of the external radiation field is explored. A detailed analysis of the behaviour of various level populations and some of the atomic coherences is presented. The influence of the competing effects between the Rabi field strength and the dipole dipole interaction on the two photon absorption probability is explored in detail both for identical as well as non-identical atoms. There are significant variations in the behaviour of identical and non-identical atoms as a function of the dipole coupling strength, even for small amounts of non-identity of the atoms, which in this study is incorporated through the atomic level separations.

id: 1207.5623
title: Exact results on the Kondo-lattice magnetic polaron
authors: S. Henning, P. Herrmann, W. Nolting
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures, accepted for publication in PRB
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5623
abstract: In this work we revise the theory of one electron in a ferromagnetically saturated local moment system interacting via a Kondo-like exchange interaction. The complete eigenstates for the finite lattice are derived. It is then shown, that parts of these states lose their norm in the limit of an infinite lattice. The correct (scattering) eigenstates are calculated in this limit. The time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation is solved for arbitrary initial conditions and the connection to the down-electron Green's function and the scattering states is worked out. A detailed analysis of the down-electron decay dynamics is given.

id: 1207.5630
title: Excitation spectroscopy of single quantum dots at tunable positive, neutral and negative charge states
authors: Y. Benny, Y. Kodriano, E. Poem, T. A. Truong, P. M. Petroff, D. Gershoni
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5630
abstract: We present a comprehensive study of the optical transitions and selection rules of variably charged single self-assembled InAs/GaAs quantum dots. We apply high resolution polarization sensitive photoluminescence excitation spectroscopy to the same quantum dot for three different charge states: neutral and negatively or positively charged by one additional electron or hole. From the detailed analysis of the excitation spectra, a full understanding of the single-carrier energy levels and the interactions between carriers in these levels is extracted for the first time.

id: 1207.5669
title: Poincar¨¦ Invariant Quantum Field Theories With Twisted Internal Symmetries
authors: Rahul Srivastava, Sachindeo Vaidya
comments: 27 pages, Typos Corrected, Text and Conclusions Unchanged, Version published in JHEP
journal: JHEP, 01 (2013) 019
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5669
abstract: Following up the work of [1] on deformed algebras, we present a class of Poincar\'e invariant quantum field theories with particles having deformed internal symmetries. The twisted quantum fields discussed in this work satisfy commutation relations different from the usual bosonic/fermionic commutation relations. Such twisted fields by construction are nonlocal in nature. Despite this nonlocality we show that it is possible to construct local interaction Hamiltonians which satisfy cluster decomposition principle and are Lorentz invariant. We further illustrate these ideas by considering global SU(N) symmetries. Specifically we show that twisted internal symmetries can significantly simplify the discussion of the marginal deformations (\beta-deformations) of the N=4 SUSY theories.

id: 1207.5693
title: Time-dependent restricted active space Configuration Interaction for the photoionization of many-electron atoms
authors: David Hochstuhl, Michael Bonitz
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5693
abstract: We introduce the time-dependent restricted active space Configuration Interaction method to solve the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation for many-electron atoms, and particularly apply it to the treatment of photoionization processes in atoms. The method is presented in a very general formulation and incorporates a wide range of commonly used approximation schemes, like the single-active electron approximation, time-dependent Configuration Interaction with single-excitations, or the time-dependent R-matrix method. We proof the applicability of the method by calculating the photoionization cross sections of Helium and Beryllium, as well as the X-ray--IR pump-probe ionization in Beryllium

id: 1207.5763
title: Existence of the thermodynamic limit and asymptotic behavior of some irreversible quantum dynamical systems
authors: Anna Vershynina
comments: This is a corrected version of my UC Davis PhD dissertation. 97 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5763
abstract: We discuss the properties of two open quantum systems with a general class of irreversible quantum dynamics. First we study Lieb-Robinson bounds in a quantum lattice systems. The time-dependent generator of the dynamics of the system is of the Lindblad-Kossakowski type. This generator satisfies some suitable decay condition in space. We show that the dynamics with a such generator on a finite system is a well-defined quantum dynamics in a sense of a norm-continuous cocycle of unit preserving completely positive maps. After proving Lieb-Robinson bounds for a finite lattice systems we also show the existence of the thermodynamic limit of the dynamics. We show that in a strong limit there exits a strongly continuous cocycle of unit preserving completely positive maps. Which means that the dynamics exists in an infinite system, where Lieb-Robinson bounds also holds. In the second part of the paper we consider a system that consists of a beam of two-level atoms that pass one by one through the microwave cavity. The atoms are randomly excited and there is exactly one atom present in the cavity at any given moment. We consider both the ideal and leaky cavity and study the time asymptotic behavior of the state of the cavity. We show that the number of photons increases indefinitely in the case of the ideal cavity. In case of leaky cavity we prove that the mean photon number in the cavity stabilizes in time. The limiting state of the cavity in this case exists and it is independent of the initial state. We calculate the characteristic functional of this non-quasi-free non-equilibrium state. We also calculate the energy flux in both the ideal and leaky and the entropy production for the ideal cavity.

id: 1207.5818
title: Efficiency bounds for nonequilibrium heat engines
authors: Pankaj Mehta, Anatoli Polkovnikov
comments: updated version, 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Annals Phys. 332, 110-126 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5818
abstract: We analyze the efficiency of thermal engines (either quantum or classical) working with a single heat reservoir like atmosphere. The engine first gets an energy intake, which can be done in arbitrary non-equilibrium way e.g. combustion of fuel. Then the engine performs the work and returns to the initial state. We distinguish two general classes of engines where the working body first equilibrates within itself and then performs the work (ergodic engine) or when it performs the work before equilibrating (non-ergodic engine). We show that in both cases the second law of thermodynamics limits their efficiency. For ergodic engines we find a rigorous upper bound for the efficiency, which is strictly smaller than the equivalent Carnot efficiency. I.e. the Carnot efficiency can be never achieved in single reservoir heat engines. For non-ergodic engines the efficiency can be higher and can exceed the equilibrium Carnot bound. By extending the fundamental thermodynamic relation to nonequilibrium processes, we find a rigorous thermodynamic bound for the efficiency of both ergodic and non-ergodic engines and show that it is given by the relative entropy of the non-equilibrium and initial equilibrium distributions.These results suggest a new general strategy for designing more efficient engines. We illustrate our ideas by using simple examples.

id: 1207.5892
title: Zero-energy states in rotating trapped Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Tapio Simula
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 25 285602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5892
abstract: We have calculated low-lying quasiparticle excitation spectra of rotating three-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensates. As opposed to the prediction of hydrodynamic continuum theories, we find a minimum in the Tkachenko mode spectrum at intermediate rotation frequencies of the harmonic trap. Such a minimum can harbour a Tkachenko quasiparticle with zero excitation energy. We discuss the experimental signatures of such a zero mode.

id: 1207.5952
title: Transport in a disordered tight-binding chain with dephasing
authors: Marko Znidaric, Martin Horvat
comments: 13 pages; v2.: corrected wrong factor of 2 in conductivity
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 86, 67 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.5952
abstract: We study transport properties of a disordered tight-binding model (XX spin chain) in the presence of dephasing. Focusing on diffusive behavior in the thermodynamic limit at high energies, we analytically derive the dependence of conductivity on dephasing and disorder strengths. As a function of dephasing, conductivity exhibits a single maximum at the optimal dephasing strength. The scaling of the position of this maximum with disorder strength is different for small and large disorder. In addition, we study periodic disorder for which we find a resonance phenomenon, with conductivity having two maxima as a function of dephasing strength. If disorder is nonzero only at a random fraction of all sites, conductivity is approximately the same as in the case of a disorder on all sites but with a rescaled disorder strength.

id: 1207.6001
title: Generalized Rayleigh and Jacobi processes and exceptional orthogonal polynomials
authors: C.-I. Chou, C.-L. Ho
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27 (2013) 1350135
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6001
abstract: We present four types of infinitely many exactly solvable Fokker-Planck equations, which are related to the newly discovered exceptional orthogonal polynomials. They represent the deformed versions of the Rayleigh process and the Jacobi process.

id: 1207.6030
title: Phases and relativity in atomic gravimetry
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Brahim Lamine, Serge Reynaud
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Classical and Quantum Gravity 30, 6 (2013) 065006
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6030
abstract: The phase observable measured by an atomic gravimeter built up on stimulated Raman transitions is discussed in a fully relativistic context. It is written in terms of laser phases which are invariant under relativistic gauge transformations. The dephasing is the sum of light and atomic contributions which are connected to one another through their interplay with conservation laws at the interaction vertices. In the case of a closed geometry, a compact form of the dephasing is written in terms of a Legendre transform of the laser phases. These general expressions are illustrated by discussing two techniques used for compensating the Doppler shift, one corresponding to chirped frequencies and the other one to ramped variations.

id: 1207.6043
title: Optical conductivity due to orbital polarons in systems with orbital degeneracy
authors: Piotr Wr¨®bel, Robert Eder, Andrzej M. Ole?
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures; final published version
journal: Physical Review B 86, 064415 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6043
abstract: We consider the impact of orbital polarons in doped orbitally ordered systems on optical conductivity using the simplest generic model capturing the directional nature of either $t_{2g}$ (or $e_g$) orbital states in certain transition metal oxides, or $p$ orbital states of cold atoms in optical lattices. The origin of the optical transitions is analyzed in detail and we demonstrate that the optical spectra: (i) are determined by the string picture, i.e., flipped orbitals along the hole hopping path, and (ii) consist of three narrow peaks which stem from distinct excitations. They occur within the Mott-Hubbard gap similar to the superconducting cuprates but indicate hole confinement, in contrast to the spin t-J model. Finally, we point out how to use the point group symmetry to classify the optical transitions.

id: 1207.6101
title: Ideal Multipole Ion Traps from Planar Ring Electrodes
authors: Robert J. Clark
comments: Section on trapping of a single ion added, two figures added, one formula corrected, otherwise minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6101
abstract: We present designs for multipole ion traps based on a set of planar, annular, concentric electrodes which require only rf potentials to confine ions. We illustrate the desirable properties of the traps by considering a few simple cases of confined ions. We predict that mm-scale surface traps may have trap depths as high as tens of electron volts, or micromotion amplitudes in a 2-D ion crystal as low as tens of nanometers, when parameters of a magnitude common in the field are chosen. Several example traps are studied, and the scaling of those properties with voltage, frequency, and trap scale, for small numbers of ions, is derived. In addition, ions with very high charge-to-mass ratios may be confined in the trap, and species of very different charge-to-mass ratios may be simultaneously confined. Applications of these traps include quantum information science, frequency metrology, and cold ion-atom collisions.

id: 1207.6158
title: Interferometry using Adiabatic Passage in Dilute Gas Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: M. Rab, A. L. C. Hayward, J. H. Cole, A. D. Greentree, A. M. Martin
comments: 11 pages with 10 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 063605 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6158
abstract: We theoretically examine three-well interferometry in Bose-Einstein condensates using adiabatic passage. Specifically, we demonstrate that a fractional coherent transport adiabatic passage protocol enables stable spatial splitting in the presence of nonlinear interactions. A reversal of this protocol produces a coherent recombination of the BEC with a phase-dependent population of the three wells. The effect of nonlinear interactions on the interferometric measurement is quantified and found to lead to an enhancement in sensitivity for moderate interaction strengths.

id: 1207.6162
title: Cyclic structures of Cliffordian supergroups and particle representations of Spin_+(1,3)
authors: V. V. Varlamov
comments: 22 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1107.4156, arXiv:math-ph/0203059, arXiv:math-ph/0108022, arXiv:math-ph/0405040
journal: Advances in Applied Clifford Algebras 24(3), 849-874 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6162
abstract: Supergroups are defined in the framework of $\dZ_2$-graded Clifford algebras over the fields of real and complex numbers, respectively. It is shown that cyclic structures of complex and real supergroups are defined by Brauer-Wall groups related with the modulo 2 and modulo 8 periodicities of the complex and real Clifford algebras. Particle (fermionic and bosonic) representations of a universal covering (spinor group $\spin_+(1,3)$) of the proper orthochronous Lorentz group are constructed via the Clifford algebra formalism. Complex and real supergroups are defined on the representation system of $\spin_+(1,3)$. It is shown that a cyclic (modulo 2) structure of the complex supergroup is equivalent to a supersymmetric action, that is, it converts fermionic representations into bosonic representations and vice versa. The cyclic action of the real supergroup leads to a much more high-graded symmetry related with the modulo 8 periodicity of the real Clifford algebras. This symmetry acts on the system of real representations of $\spin_+(1,3)$.

id: 1207.6163
title: Casimir forces on a silicon micromechanical chip
authors: J. Zou, Z. Marcet, A. W. Rodriguez, M. T. H. Reid, A. P. McCauley, I. I. Kravchenko, T. Lu, Y. Bao, S. G. Johnson, H. B. Chan
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 4, 1845 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6163
abstract: Quantum fluctuations give rise to van der Waals and Casimir forces that dominate the interaction between electrically neutral objects at sub-micron separations. Under the trend of miniaturization, such quantum electrodynamical effects are expected to play an important role in micro- and nano-mechanical devices. Nevertheless, utilization of Casimir forces on the chip level remains a major challenge because all experiments so far require an external object to be manually positioned close to the mechanical element. Here, by integrating a force-sensing micromechanical beam and an electrostatic actuator on a single chip, we demonstrate the Casimir effect between two micromachined silicon components on the same substrate. A high degree of parallelism between the two near-planar interacting surfaces can be achieved because they are defined in a single lithographic step. Apart from providing a compact platform for Casimir force measurements, this scheme also opens the possibility of tailoring the Casimir force using lithographically defined components of non-conventional shapes.

id: 1207.6201
title: Improving imaging resolution of shaking targets by Fourier-transform ghost diffraction
authors: Cong Zhang, Wenlin Gong, Shensheng Han
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: APPLIED PHYSICS LETTERS 102, 021111 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6201
abstract: For conventional imaging, shaking of the imaging system or the target leads to the degradation of imaging resolution. In this work, the influence of the target's shaking to fourier-transform ghost diffraction (FGD) is investigated. The analytical results, which are backed up by numerical simulation and experiments, demonstrate that the quiver of target has no effect on the resolution of FGD, thus the target's imaging with high spatial resolution can be always achieved by phase-retrieval method from the FGD patterns. This approach can be applied in high-precision imaging systems, to overcome the influence of the system's shaking to imaging resolution.

id: 1207.6211
title: Pseudospin symmetry in supersymmetric quantum mechanics: Schr?dinger equations
authors: Haozhao Liang, Shihang Shen, Pengwei Zhao, Jie Meng
comments: 31 pages, 11 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. C 87, 014334 (2013)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6211
abstract: The origin of pseudospin symmetry (PSS) and its breaking mechanism are explored by combining supersymmetry (SUSY) quantum mechanics, perturbation theory, and the similarity renormalization group (SRG) method. The Schr\"odinger equation is taken as an example, corresponding to the lowest-order approximation in transforming a Dirac equation into a diagonal form by using the SRG. It is shown that while the spin-symmetry-conserving term appears in the single-particle Hamiltonian $H$, the PSS-conserving term appears naturally in its SUSY partner Hamiltonian $\tilde{H}$. The eigenstates of Hamiltonians $H$ and $\tilde{H}$ are exactly one-to-one identical except for the so-called intruder states. In such a way, the origin of PSS deeply hidden in $H$ can be traced in its SUSY partner Hamiltonian $\tilde{H}$. The perturbative nature of PSS in the present potential without spin-orbit term is demonstrated by the perturbation calculations, and the PSS-breaking term can be regarded as a very small perturbation on the exact PSS limits. A general tendency that the pseudospin-orbit splittings become smaller with increasing single-particle energies can also be interpreted in an explicit way.

id: 1207.6222
title: Transient noise spectra in resonant tunneling setups: Exactly solvable models
authors: K. Joho, S. Maier, A. Komnik
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B, 86, 155304 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6222
abstract: We investigate the transient evolution of finite-frequency current noise after abrupt switching on of the tunneling coupling in two paradigmatic, exactly solvable models of mesoscopic physics: the resonant level model and the Majorana resonant level model, which emerges as an effective model for a Kondo quantum dot at the Toulouse point. We find a parameter window in which the transient noise can become negative, a property it shares with the transient current. However, in contrast to the transient current, which approaches the steady state exponentially fast, we observe an algebraic decay in time of the transient noise for a system at zero temperature. This behaviour is dominant for characteristic parameter regimes in both models. At finite temperature the decay is altered from an algebraic to an exponential one with a damping constant proportional to temperature.

id: 1207.6225
title: Toward understanding the microscopic origin of nuclear clustering
authors: J. Oko?owicz, W. Nazarewicz, M. P?oszajczak
comments: Special Issue of Fortschritte der Physik - Progress of Physics: Physics of Non-Hermitian Systems (10 pages, 10 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6225
abstract: Open Quantum System (OQS) description of a many-body system involves interaction of Shell Model (SM) states through the particle continuum. In realistic nuclear applications, this interaction may lead to collective phenomena in the ensemble of SM states. We claim that the nuclear clustering is an emergent, near-threshold phenomenon, which cannot be elucidated within the Closed Quantum System (CQS) framework. We approach this problem by investigating the near-threshold behavior of Exceptional Points (EPs) in the realistic Continuum Shell Model (CSM). The consequences for the alpha-clustering phenomenon are discussed.

id: 1207.6291
title: Dissipative Binding of Lattice Bosons through Distance-Selective Pair Loss
authors: C. Ates, B. Olmos, W. Li, I. Lesanovsky
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 233003 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6291
abstract: We show that in a gas of ultra cold atoms distance selective two-body loss can be engineered via the resonant laser excitation of atom pairs to interacting electronic states. In an optical lattice this leads to a dissipative Master equation dynamics with Lindblad jump operators that annihilate atom pairs with a specific interparticle distance. In conjunction with coherent hopping between lattice sites this unusual dissipation mechanism leads to the formation of coherent long-lived complexes that can even exhibit an internal level structure which is strongly coupled to their external motion. We analyze this counterintuitive phenomenon in detail in a system of hard-core bosons. While current research has established that dissipation in general can lead to the emergence of coherent features in many-body systems our work shows that strong non-local dissipation can effectuate a binding mechanism for particles.

id: 1207.6336
title: The influence of geometry and topology of quantum graphs on their nonlinear-optical properties
authors: Rick Lytel, Shoresh Shafei, Julian H. Smith, Mark G. Kuzyk
comments: For better quality plots, please download the paper from the authors' website or from pra.aps.org
journal: Physical Review A 87, 043824 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6336
abstract: We analyze the nonlinear optics of quasi one-dimensional quantum graphs and manipulate their topology and geometry to generate for the first time nonlinearities in a simple system approaching the fundamental limits of the first and second hyperpolarizabilities. Changes in geometry result in smooth variations of the nonlinearities. Topological changes between geometrically-similar systems cause profound changes in the nonlinear susceptibilities that include a discontinuity due to abrupt changes in the boundary conditions. This work may inform the design of new molecules or nano- scale structures for nonlinear optics and hints at the same universal behavior for quantum graph models in nonlinear optics that is observed in other systems.

id: 1207.6373
title: Rydberg-Atom Quantum Simulation and Chern Number Characterization of a Topological Mott Insulator
authors: A. Dauphin, M. M¨¹ller, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Revtex4 file, color figures. Final journal version. References updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053618 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6373
abstract: In this work we consider a system of spinless fermions with nearest and next-to-nearest neighbor repulsive Hubbard interactions on a honeycomb lattice, and propose and analyze a realistic scheme for analog quantum simulation of this model with cold atoms in a two-dimensional hexagonal optical lattice. To this end, we first derive the zero-temperature phase diagram of the interacting model within a mean-field theory treatment. We show that besides a semi-metallic and a charge-density-wave ordered phase, the system exhibits a quantum anomalous Hall phase, which is generated dynamically, i.e. purely as a result of the repulsive fermionic interactions and in the absence of any external gauge fields. We establish the topological nature of this dynamically created Mott insulating phase by the numerical calculation of a Chern number. Based on the knowledge of the mean-field phase diagram, we then discuss in detail how the interacting Hamiltonian can be engineered effectively by state-of-the-art experimental techniques for laser-dressing of cold fermionic ground-state atoms with electronically excited Rydberg states that exhibit strong dipolar interactions.

id: 1207.6442
title: Trapping and detection of single atoms using a spherical mirror
authors: Arpan Roy, Andrew Bah Shen Jing, Murray D. Barrett
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6442
abstract: We fabricate a miniature spherical mirror for tightly focusing an optical dipole trap for neutral atoms. The mirror formation process is modelled to predict the dimensions for particular fabrication parameters. We integrate the spherical mirror with a neutral atom experiment to trap and detect a single atom with high efficiency. The mirror serves the dual purpose of focusing the dipole trap as well as collection of the atomic fluorescence into an optical fibre.

id: 1207.6459
title: Do the Modified Uncertainty Principle and Polymer Quantization predict same physics?
authors: Barun Majumder, Sourav Sen
comments: 8 pages, comments and references added, accepted in Phys. Lett. B. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1105.5314
journal: Phys. Lett. B 717 (2012) 291-294
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6459
abstract: In this Letter we study the effects of the Modified Uncertainty Principle as proposed in Ali et al. (2009) [5] in simple quantum mechanical systems and study its thermodynamic properties. We have assumed that the quantum particles follow Maxwell-Boltzmann statistics with no spin. We compare our results with the results found in the GUP and polymer quantum mechanical frameworks. Interestingly we find that the corrected thermodynamic entities are exactly same compared to the polymer results but the length scale considered has a theoretically different origin. Hence we express the need of further study for an investigation whether these two approaches are conceptually connected in the fundamental level.

id: 1207.6482
title: Optical transmittance degradation in tapered fibers
authors: Masazumi Fujiwara, Kiyota Toubaru, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6482
abstract: We investigated the cause of optical transmittance degradation in tapered fibers. Degradation commences immediately after fabrication and it eventually reduces the transmittance to almost zero. It is a major problem that limits applications of tapered fibers. We systematically investigated the effect of the dust-particle density and the humidity on the degradation dynamics. The results clearly show that the degradation is mostly due to dust particles and that it is not related to the humidity. In a dust free environment it is possible to preserve the transmittance with a degradation of less than the noise (+/- ?0.02) over 1 week.

id: 1207.6496
title: Casimir effects in graphene systems: unexpected power laws
authors: Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 10 pages,5 figures, conference
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics: Conference Series Vol. 14 (2012) 531-540
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6496
abstract: We present calculations of the zero-temperature Casimir interaction between two freestanding graphene sheets as well as between a graphene sheet and a substrate. Results are given for undoped graphene and for a set of doping levels covering the range of experimentally accessible values. We describe different approaches that can be used to derive the interaction. We point out both the predicted power law for the interaction and the actual distance dependence.

id: 1207.6505
title: Rotational properties of non-dipolar and dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates confined in annular potentials
authors: E. ?. Karabulut, F. Malet, G. M. Kavoulakis, S. M. Reimann
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 033615 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6505
abstract: We investigate the rotational response of both non-dipolar and dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates confined in an annular potential. For the non-dipolar case we identify certain critical rotational frequencies associated with the formation of vortices. For the dipolar case, assuming that the dipoles are aligned along some arbitrary and tunable direction, we study the same problem as a function of the orientation angle of the dipole moment of the atoms.

id: 1207.6534
title: Fractional exclusion statistics -- the method to describe interacting particle systems as ideal gases
authors: Dragos-Victor Anghel
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Scr. 2012, 014079 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6534
abstract: I show that if the total energy of a system of interacting particles may be written as a sum of quasiparticle energies, then the system of quasiparticles can be viewed in general as an ideal gas with fractional exclusion statistics (FES). The general method for calculating the FES parameters is also provided. The interacting particle system cannot be described as an ideal gas of Bose and Fermi quasiparticles except in trivial situations.

id: 1207.6647
title: Nonequilibrium Multi-Band Spin Quantum Transport Equations: Spin, Pseudo-Spin, and Total Charge Coupling
authors: Felix A. Buot
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6647
abstract: Using the superfield nonequilibrium Greens function technique, we derive the spatio-temporal spin magnetization quantum transport equations (SMQTEs) for a two-band model of semiconductors. The relevant variables are the real (Pauli-Dirac) spin, pseudo-spin, and the total charge. The results show that the multi-band real SMQTEs are coupled to the pseudo-spin magnetization transport equations by virtue of the presence of two additional discrete quantum labels besides the up and down real-spin indices, namely, the conduction and valence band quantum labels. The SMQTEs essentially consist of three group of terms describing the rate of change, namely, (1) a group of terms similar to the equation for particle quantum transport, i.e., with spin-independent transport parameters, (2) a group of terms describing various torques influencing the spin orientation and directional flow of spin magnetization correlations or phase-space magnetization density, and (3) a group of terms expressing the coupling of the real spin magnetization with the pseudo-spin magnetization. Self-consistently, the pseudo-spin magnetization equations incorporate the pseudo-spin/real spin coupling, as well as the pseudo-spin coupling to the total charge.

id: 1207.6701
title: Frequency modulated few-cycle optical pulse trains induced controllable ultrafast coherent population oscillations in three-level atomic systems
authors: Parvendra Kumar, Amarendra K. Sarma
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6701
abstract: We report a study on the ultrafast coherent population oscillations (UCPO) in two level atoms induced by the frequency modulated few-cycle optical pulse train. The phenomenon of UCPO is investigated by numerically solving the optical Bloch equations beyond the rotating wave approximation. We demonstrate that the quantum state of the atoms and the frequency of UCPO may be controlled by controlling the number of pulses in the pulse trains and the pulse repetition time respectively. Moreover, the robustness of the population inversion against the variation of the laser pulse parameters is also investigated. The proposed scheme may be useful for the creation of atoms in selected quantum state for desired time duration and may have potential applications in ultrafast optical switching.

id: 1207.6718
title: Information geometry, dynamics and discrete quantum mechanics
authors: Marcel Reginatto, Michael J. W. Hall
comments: 12 pages. Presented at MaxEnt 2012, the 32nd International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering, July 15-20, 2012, Garching near Munich, Germany. Updated version includes corrections of typos and minor revisions
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1553 (2013) 246-253
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6718
abstract: We consider a system with a discrete configuration space. We show that the geometrical structures associated with such a system provide the tools necessary for a reconstruction of discrete quantum mechanics once dynamics is brought into the picture. We do this in three steps. Our starting point is information geometry, the natural geometry of the space of probability distributions. Dynamics requires additional structure. To evolve the probabilities $P^k$, we introduce coordinates $S^k$ canonically conjugate to the $P^k$ and a symplectic structure. We then seek to extend the metric structure of information geometry, to define a geometry over the full space of the $P^k$ and $S^k$. Consistency between the metric tensor and the symplectic form forces us to introduce a K\"ahler geometry. The construction has notable features. A complex structure is obtained in a natural way. The canonical coordinates of the K\"ahler space are precisely the wave functions of quantum mechanics. The full group of unitary transformations is obtained. Finally, one may associate a Hilbert space with the K\"ahler space, which leads to the standard version of quantum theory. We also show that the metric that we derive here using purely geometrical arguments is precisely the one that leads to Wootters' expression for the statistical distance for quantum systems.

id: 1207.6723
title: Spectral and transport properties of one-dimensional nanoring superlattice
authors: M. A. Pyataev, M. A. Kokoreva
comments: 2 references are added, references are combined in groups
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1350103 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6723
abstract: Spectral properties of periodic one-dimensional array of nanorings in a magnetic field are investigated. Two types of the superlattice are considered. In the first one, rings are connected by short one-dimensional wires while in the second one rings have immediate contacts between each other. The dependence of the electron energy on the quasimomentum is obtained from the Schrodinger equation for the Bloch wave function. We have found an interesting feature of the system, namely, presence of discrete energy levels in the spectrum. The levels can be located in the gaps or in the bands depending on parameters of the system. The levels correspond to bound states and electrons occupying these levels are located on individual rings or couples of neighbouring rings and does not contribute to the charge transport. The wave function for the bound states corresponding to the discrete levels is obtained. Modification of electron energy spectrum with variation of system parameters is discussed.

id: 1207.6752
title: Entanglement Spectra of the quantum hard-square model: Holographic minimal models
authors: Shu Tanaka, Ryo Tamura, Hosho Katsura
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032326 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6752
abstract: We study the entanglement properties of a quantum lattice-gas model for which we can find the exact ground state (of the Rokhsar-Kivelson type). The ground state can be expressed as a superposition of states, each of which is characterized by a particle configuration with nearest-neighbor exclusion. We show that the reduced density matrix of the model on a ladder is intimately related to the transfer matrix of the classical hard-square model. The entanglement spectra of the model on square and triangular ladders are critical when parameters are chosen so that the corresponding classical hard-square models are critical. A detailed analysis reveals that the critical theories for the entanglement Hamiltonians are $c<1$ minimal conformal field theories. We further show that the entanglement Hamiltonian for the triangular ladder is integrable despite the fact that the original quantum lattice-gas model is non-integrable.

id: 1207.6787
title: Maximal quantum mechanical symmetry: Projective representations of the inhomogenous symplectic group
authors: Stephen G. Low
comments: International Congress on Mathematical Physics, 2012, Aalborg, Denmark
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 022105 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6787
abstract: A symmetry in quantum mechanics is described by the projective representations of a Lie symmetry group that transforms between physical quantum states such that the square of the modulus of the states is invariant. The Heisenberg commutation relations, that are fundamental to quantum mechanics, must be valid in all of these physical states. This paper shows that the maximal quantum symmetry group, whose projective representations preserve the Heisenberg commutation relations in this manner, is the inhomogeneous symplectic group. The projective representations are equivalent to the unitary representations of the central extension of the inhomogeneous symplectic group. This centrally extended group is the semidirect product of the cover of the symplectic group and the Weyl-Heisenberg group. Its unitary irreducible representations are computed explicitly using the Mackey representation theorems for semidirect product groups.

id: 1207.6789
title: Quantum Criticality Stabilizes High T_c Superconductivity Against Competing Symmetry-Breaking Instabilities
authors: Josef Ashkenazi, Neil F. Johnson
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1111.5033
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6789
abstract: The occurrence of high-T_c superconductivity in systems including the cuprates and the iron-based superconductors, is known to coincide with the existence of anomalous normal-state properties which have been associated with quantum criticality. We argue here that this observation results from the fact that quantum criticality can allow the occurrence of very-strong-coupling superconductivity by preventing its suppression due to competing symmetry-breaking instabilities. Treating the electrons through a large-U ansatz yields their separation into boson quasiparticles which are directly involved in the formation of these instabilities, represented as their Bose condensates, and charge-carrying fermion quasiparticles which are affected by them indirectly. Within the critical regime, condensates corresponding to the different broken-symmetry states are combined; consequently their negative effect on the pairing of the fermions is strongly diminished, enabling high-T_c superconductivity to occur. The observed phase diagram of the hole-doped cuprates then derives from a hidden T=0 quantum phase transition between a Fermi-liquid and a non-Fermi-liquid broken-symmetry striped state. The pseudogap range within this diagram is found to include two distinct regimes, with partial pairing occurring in one of them.

id: 1207.6799
title: Nonlinear Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics: concepts and realizations
authors: A. A. Andrianov, M. V. Ioffe
comments: 75 pages, Minor corrections, Version published in Journal of Physics A
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, 45 (2012) 503001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6799
abstract: Nonlinear SUSY approach to preparation of quantum systems with pre-planned spectral properties is reviewed. Possible multidimensional extensions of Nonlinear SUSY are described. The full classification of ladder-reducible and irreducible chains of SUSY algebras in one-dimensional QM is given. Emergence of hidden symmetries and spectrum generating algebras is elucidated in the context of Nonlinear SUSY in one- and two-dimensional QM.

id: 1207.6825
title: Large Dispersive Shift of Cavity Resonance Induced by a Superconducting Flux Qubit in the Straddling Regime
authors: K. Inomata, T. Yamamoto, P.-M. Billangeon, Y. Nakamura, J. S. Tsai
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 140508(R) (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6825
abstract: We demonstrate enhancement of the dispersive frequency shift in a coplanar waveguide resonator induced by a capacitively-coupled superconducting flux qubit in the straddling regime. The magnitude of the observed shift, 80 MHz for the qubit-resonator detuning of 5 GHz, is quantitatively explained by the generalized Jaynes-Cummings model which takes into account the contribution of the qubit higher energy levels. By applying the enhanced dispersive shift to the qubit readout, we achieved 90% contrast of the Rabi oscillations which is mainly limited by the energy relaxation of the qubit.

id: 1207.6878
title: Quenching of phonon-induced processes in quantum dots due to electron-hole asymmetries
authors: A. Nysteen, P. Kaer, J. Mork
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, submitted for peer review, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6878
abstract: Differences in the confinement of electrons and holes in quantum dots are shown to profoundly impact the magnitude of scattering with acoustic phonons in materials where crystal deformation shifts the conduction and valence band in the same direction. Using an extensive model that includes the non-Markovian nature of the phonon reservoir, we show how the effect may be addressed by photoluminescence excitation spectroscopy of a single quantum dot. We also investigate the implications for cavity QED, i.e. a coupled quantum dot-cavity system, and demonstrate that the phonon scattering may be strongly quenched. The quenching is explained by a balancing between the deformation potential interaction strengths and the carrier confinement and depends on the quantum dot shape. Numerical examples suggest a route towards engineering the phonon scattering.

id: 1207.6885
title: Parametric Oscillation of a Moving Mirror Driven by Radiation Pressure in a Superconducting Fabry-Perot Resonating System
authors: Raymond Y. Chiao, Luis A. Martinez, Stephen J. Minter, Alexey Trubarov
comments: 30 pages, 6 figures, part of proceedings of FQMT 2011 conference in Prague, Czech Republic
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6885
abstract: A moving pellicle superconducting mirror, which is driven by radiation pressure on its one side, and by the Coulomb force on its other side, can become a parametric oscillator that can generate microwaves when placed within a high-Q superconducting Fabry-Perot resonator system. A paraxial-wave analysis shows that the fundamental resonator eigenmode needed for parametric oscillation is the TM011 mode. A double Fabry-Perot structure is introduced to resonate the pump and the idler modes, but to reject the parasitic anti-Stokes mode. The threshold for oscillation is estimated based on the radiation-pressure coupling of the pump to the signal and idler modes, and indicates that the experiment is feasible to perform.

id: 1207.6901
title: Using Abrupt Changes in Magnetic Susceptibility within Type-II Superconductors to Explore Global Decoherence Phenomena
authors: Stephen J. Minter, Raymond Y. Chiao, Luis A. Martinez
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, part of proceedings for FQMT 2011 conference in Prague, Czech Republic
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6901
abstract: A phenomenon of a periodic staircase of macroscopic jumps in the admitted magnetic field has been observed, as the magnitude of an externally applied magnetic field is smoothly increased or decreased upon a superconducting (SC) loop of type II niobium-titanium wire which is coated with a non-superconducting layer of copper. Large temperature spikes were observed to occur simultaneously with the jumps, suggesting brief transitions to the normal state, caused by en masse motions of Abrikosov vortices. An experiment that exploits this phenomenon to explore the global decoherence of a large superconducting system will be discussed, and preliminary data will be presented. Though further experimentation is required to determine the actual decoherence rate across the superconducting system, multiple classical processes are ruled out, suggesting that jumps in magnetic flux are fully quantum mechanical processes which may correspond to large group velocities within the global Cooper pair wavefunction.

id: 1207.6934
title: Experimental observation of the X-shaped near field spatio-temporal correlation of ultra-broadband twin beams
authors: O. Jedrkiewicz, A. Gatti, E. Brambilla, P. Di Trapani
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 109, 243901 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6934
abstract: In this work we present the experimental observation of the non factorable near field spatio-temporal correlation of ultra-broadband twin beams generated by parametric down conversion (PDC), in an interferometric-type experiment using sum frequency generation, where both the temporal and spatial degrees of freedom of PDC light are controlled with very high resolution. The revealed X-structure of the correlation is in accordance with the predictions of the theory.

id: 1207.6972
title: Finite dimensional Hilbert spaces are complete for dagger compact closed categories
authors: Peter Selinger
comments: 
journal: LMCS 8 (3:6) 2012
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6972
abstract: We show that an equation follows from the axioms of dagger compact closed categories if and only if it holds in finite dimensional Hilbert spaces.

id: 1207.7013
title: Surface Vacuum Energy in Cutoff Models: Pressure Anomaly and Distributional Gravitational Limit
authors: Ricardo Estrada, Stephen A. Fulling, Fernando D. Mera
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures, 1 table; PACS 03.70.+k, 04.20.Cv, 11.10.Gh
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 455402
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7013
abstract: Vacuum-energy calculations with ideal reflecting boundaries are plagued by boundary divergences, which presumably correspond to real (but finite) physical effects occurring near the boundary. Our working hypothesis is that the stress tensor for idealized boundary conditions with some finite cutoff should be a reasonable ad hoc model for the true situation. The theory will have a sensible renormalized limit when the cutoff is taken away; this requires making sense of the Einstein equation with a distributional source. Calculations with the standard ultraviolet cutoff reveal an inconsistency between energy and pressure similar to the one that arises in noncovariant regularizations of cosmological vacuum energy. The problem disappears, however, if the cutoff is a spatial point separation in a "neutral" direction parallel to the boundary. Here we demonstrate these claims in detail, first for a single flat reflecting wall intersected by a test boundary, then more rigorously for a region of finite cross section surrounded by four reflecting walls. We also show how the moment-expansion theorem can be applied to the distributional limits of the source and the solution of the Einstein equation, resulting in a mathematically consistent differential equation where cutoff-dependent coefficients have been identified as renormalizations of properties of the boundary. A number of issues surrounding the interpretation of these results are aired.

id: 1207.7032
title: Embedded Gaussian Unitary Ensembles with $U(¦¸) \otimes SU(r)$ Embedding generated by Random Two-body Interactions with $SU(r)$ Symmetry
authors: Manan Vyas, V. K. B. Kota
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7032
abstract: Following the earlier studies on embedded unitary ensembles generated by random two-body interactions [EGUE(2)] with spin SU(2) and spin-isospin SU(4) symmetries, developed is a general formulation, for deriving lower order moments of the one- and two-point correlation functions in eigenvalues, that is valid for any EGUE(2) and BEGUE(2) ('B' stands for bosons) with $U(\Omega) \otimes SU(r)$ embedding and with two-body interactions preserving $SU(r)$ symmetry. Using this formulation with $r=1$, we recover the results derived by Asaga et al [Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) 297, 344 (2002)] for spinless boson systems. Going further, new results are obtained for $r=2$ (this corresponds to two species boson systems) and $r=3$ (this corresponds to spin 1 boson systems).

id: 1207.7084
title: Decoherence of superconducting qubits caused by quasiparticle tunneling
authors: G. Catelani, Simon E. Nigg, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf, L. I. Glazman
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 184514 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7084
abstract: In superconducting qubits, the interaction of the qubit degree of freedom with quasiparticles defines a fundamental limitation for the qubit coherence. We develop a theory of the pure dephasing rate \Gamma_{\phi} caused by quasiparticles tunneling through a Josephson junction and of the inhomogeneous broadening due to changes in the occupations of Andreev states in the junction. To estimate \Gamma_{\phi}, we derive a master equation for the qubit dynamics. The tunneling rate of free quasiparticles is enhanced by their large density of states at energies close to the superconducting gap. Nevertheless, we find that \Gamma_{\phi} is small compared to the rates determined by extrinsic factors in most of the current qubit designs (phase and flux qubits, transmon, fluxonium). The split transmon, in which a single junction is replaced by a SQUID loop, represents an exception that could make possible the measurement of \Gamma_{\phi}. Fluctuations of the qubit frequency leading to inhomogeneous broadening may be caused by the fluctuations in the occupation numbers of the Andreev states associated with a phase-biased Josephson junction. This mechanism may be revealed in qubits with small-area junctions, since the smallest relative change in frequency it causes is of the order of the inverse number of transmission channels in the junction.

id: 1207.7119
title: Edge state inner products and real-space entanglement spectrum of trial quantum Hall states
authors: J. Dubail, N. Read, E. H. Rezayi
comments: 32 pages, 6 figures. V2: discussion of corrections to scaling extended, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 245310 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7119
abstract: We consider the trial wavefunctions for the Fractional Quantum Hall Effect (FQHE) that are given by conformal blocks, and construct their associated edge excited states in full generality. The inner products between these edge states are computed in the thermodynamic limit, assuming generalized screening (i.e. short-range correlations only) inside the quantum Hall droplet, and using the language of boundary conformal field theory (boundary CFT). These inner products take universal values in this limit: they are equal to the corresponding inner products in the bulk 2d chiral CFT which underlies the trial wavefunction. This is a bulk/edge correspondence; it shows the equality between equal-time correlators along the edge and the correlators of the bulk CFT up to a Wick rotation. This approach is then used to analyze the entanglement spectrum (ES) of the ground state obtained with a bipartition A\cupB in real-space. Starting from our universal result for inner products in the thermodynamic limit, we tackle corrections to scaling using standard field-theoretic and renormalization group arguments. We prove that generalized screening implies that the entanglement Hamiltonian H_E = - log {\rho}_A is isospectral to an operator that is local along the cut between A and B. We also show that a similar analysis can be carried out for particle partition. We discuss the close analogy between the formalism of trial wavefunctions given by conformal blocks and Tensor Product States, for which results analogous to ours have appeared recently. Finally, the edge theory and entanglement spectrum of px + ipy paired superfluids are treated in a similar fashion in the appendix.

id: 1207.7146
title: Completeness of algebraic CPS simulations
authors: Ali Assaf, Simon Perdrix
comments: In Proceedings DCM 2011, arXiv:1207.6821
journal: EPTCS 88, 2012, pp. 16-27
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7146
abstract: The algebraic lambda calculus and the linear algebraic lambda calculus are two extensions of the classical lambda calculus with linear combinations of terms. They arise independently in distinct contexts: the former is a fragment of the differential lambda calculus, the latter is a candidate lambda calculus for quantum computation. They differ in the handling of application arguments and algebraic rules. The two languages can simulate each other using an algebraic extension of the well-known call-by-value and call-by-name CPS translations. These simulations are sound, in that they preserve reductions. In this paper, we prove that the simulations are actually complete, strengthening the connection between the two languages.

id: 1207.7225
title: Random matrix ensemble with random two-body interactions in presence of a mean-field for spin one boson systems
authors: H. N. Deota, N. D. Chavda, V. K. B. Kota, V. Potbhare, Manan Vyas
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7225
abstract: For $m$ number of bosons, carrying spin ($S$=1) degree of freedom, in $\Omega$ number of single particle orbitals, each triply degenerate, we introduce and analyze embedded Gaussian orthogonal ensemble of random matrices generated by random two-body interactions that are spin (S) scalar [BEGOE(2)-$S1$]. The embedding algebra is $U(3) \supset G \supset G1 \otimes SO(3)$ with SO(3) generating spin $S$. A method for constructing the ensembles in fixed-($m$, $S$) space has been developed. Numerical calculations show that the form of the fixed-($m$, $S$) density of states is close to Gaussian and level fluctuations follow GOE. Propagation formulas for the fixed-($m$, $S$) space energy centroids and spectral variances are derived for a general one plus two-body Hamiltonian preserving spin. In addition to these, we also introduce two different pairing symmetry algebras in the space defined by BEGOE(2)-$S1$ and the structure of ground states is studied for each paring symmetry.

id: 1207.7243
title: Gate-Control of Spin Precession in Quantum Hall Edge States
authors: T. Nakajima, Kuan-Ting Lin, S. Komiyama
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7243
abstract: Electrical control and detection of spin precession are experimentally demonstrated by using spin-resolved edge states in the integer quantum Hall regime. Spin precession is triggered at a corner of a biased metal gate, where electron orbital motion makes a sharp turn leading to a nonadiabatic change in the effective magnetic field via spin-orbit interaction. The phase of precession is controlled by the group velocity of edge-state electrons tuned by gate bias voltage: A spin-FET device is thus realized by all-electrical means, without invoking ferromagnetic material. The effect is also interpreted in terms of a Mach-Zehnder-type spin interferometer.

id: 1207.7293
title: Solitons in cavity-QED arrays containing interacting qubits
authors: I.-H. Chen, Y. Y. Lin, Y.-C. Lai, E. S. Sedov, A. P. Alodjants, S. M. Arakelian, R.-K. Lee
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7293
abstract: We reveal the existence of polariton soliton solutions in the array of weakly coupled optical cavities, each containing an ensemble of interacting qubits. An effective complex Ginzburg-Landau equation is derived in the continuum limit taking into account the effects of cavity field dissipation and qubit dephasing. We have shown that an enhancement of the induced nonlinearity can be achieved by two order of the magnitude with a negative interaction strength which implies a large negative qubit-field detuning as well. Bright solitons are found to be supported under perturbations only in the upper (optical) branch of polaritons, for which the corresponding group velocity is controlled by tuning the interacting strength. With the help of perturbation theory for solitons, we also demonstrate that the group velocity of these polariton solitons is suppressed by the diffusion process.

id: 1207.7307
title: Diagonalization of quasi-uniform tridiagonal matrices
authors: Leonardo Banchi, Ruggero Vaia
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 043501 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.7307
abstract: The task of analytically diagonalizing a tridiagonal matrix can be considerably simplified when a part of the matrix is uniform. Such quasi-uniform matrices occur in several physical contexts, both classical and quantum, where one-dimensional interactions prevail. These include magnetic chains, 1D arrays of Josephson junctions or of quantum dots, boson and fermion hopping models, random walks, and so on. In such systems the bulk interactions are uniform, and differences may occur around the boundaries of the arrays. Since in the uniform case the spectrum consists of a band, we exploit the bulk uniformity of quasi-uniform tridiagonal matrices in order to express the spectral problem in terms of a variation of the distribution of eigenvalues in the band and of the corresponding eigenvectors. In the limit of large matrices this naturally leads to a deformation of the density of states which can be expressed analytically; a few out-of-band eigenvalues can show up and have to be accounted for separately. The general procedure is illustrated with some examples.

id: 1207.6924
title: Drude weight, cyclotron resonance, and the Dicke model of graphene cavity QED
authors: Luca Chirolli, Marco Polini, Vittorio Giovannetti, Allan H. MacDonald
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 267404 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.6924
abstract: The Dicke model of cavity quantum electrodynamics is approximately realized in condensed matter when the cyclotron transition of a two-dimensional electron gas is nearly resonant with a cavity photon mode. We point out that in the strong coupling limit the Dicke model of cavity cyclotron resonance must be supplemented by a term that is quadratic in the cavity photon field and suppresses the model's transition to a super-radiant state. We develop the theory of graphene cavity cyclotron resonance and show that the quadratic term, which is absent in graphene's low-energy Dirac model Hamiltonian, is in this case dynamically generated by virtual inter-band transitions.

id: 1207.0423
title: Singularity Avoidance of Charged Black Holes in Loop Quantum Gravity
authors: Mojtaba Taslimi Tehrani, Hoshang Heydari
comments: To be appeared in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.0423
abstract: Based on spherically symmetric reduction of loop quantum gravity, quantization of the portion interior to the horizon of a Reissner-Nordstr\"{o}m black hole is studied. Classical phase space variables of all regions of such a black hole are calculated for the physical case $M^2> Q^2$. This calculation suggests a candidate for a classically unbounded function of which all divergent components of the curvature scalar are composed. The corresponding quantum operator is constructed and is shown explicitly to possess a bounded operator. Comparison of the obtained result with the one for the Swcharzschild case shows that the upper bound of the curvature operator of a charged black hole reduces to that of Schwarzschild at the limit $Q \rightarrow 0$. This local avoidance of singularity together with non-singular evolution equation indicates the role quantum geometry can play in treating classical singularity of such black holes.

id: 1207.3833
title: Quantum vacuum emission in a nonlinear optical medium illuminated by a strong laser pulse
authors: Stefano Finazzi, Iacopo Carusotto
comments: 22 pages, 16 figures; v2: added new appendix about emitted flux for simplified dispersion relation (linear at low frequencies)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023803 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1207.3833
abstract: A strong light pulse propagating in a nonlinear Kerr medium produces a change in the refractive index, which makes light travel at different speeds inside and outside the pulse. By tuning the pulse velocity, an analog black hole horizon can be obtained in a suitable frequency window. In this paper, we develop a quantum theory of light propagation for this system, including the frequency dispersion of the refractive index of the medium by coupling the electromagnetic field to matter polarization fields. In a configuration with a single black hole horizon, the spectrum of spontaneously emitted particles presents some similarities with Hawking radiation. Furthermore, even in horizonless systems spontaneous vacuum emission is still possible due to the dispersive nature of the medium, yet with dramatically different spectral properties.

