id: 1208.0023
title: Device-Independent Quantum Key Distribution with Local Bell Test
authors: Charles Ci Wen Lim, Christopher Portmann, Marco Tomamichel, Renato Renner, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 031006 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0023
abstract: Device-independent quantum key distribution (DIQKD) in its current design requires a violation of Bell's inequality between two honest parties, Alice and Bob, who are connected by a quantum channel. However, in reality, quantum channels are lossy, and this can be exploited for attacks based on the detection loophole. Here, we propose a novel approach to DIQKD that overcomes this limitation. In particular, based on a combination between an entropic uncertainty relation and the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) test, we design a DIQKD protocol where the CHSH test is carried out entirely in Alice's laboratory. Thus the loophole caused by channel losses is avoided.

id: 1208.0034
title: Violation of Heisenberg's Measurement-Disturbance Relationship by Weak Measurements
authors: Lee A. Rozema, Ardavan Darabi, Dylan H. Mahler, Alex Hayat, Yasaman Soudagar, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 100404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0034
abstract: While there is a rigorously proven relationship about uncertainties intrinsic to any quantum system, often referred to as "Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle," Heisenberg originally formulated his ideas in terms of a relationship between the precision of a measurement and the disturbance it must create. Although this latter relationship is not rigorously proven, it is commonly believed (and taught) as an aspect of the broader uncertainty principle. Here, we experimentally observe a violation of Heisenberg's "measurement-disturbance relationship", using weak measurements to characterize a quantum system before and after it interacts with a measurement apparatus. Our experiment implements a 2010 proposal of Lund and Wiseman to confirm a revised measurement-disturbance relationship derived by Ozawa in 2003. Its results have broad implications for the foundations of quantum mechanics and for practical issues in quantum mechanics.

id: 1208.0041
title: Quantum computation by local measurement
authors: Robert Raussendorf, Tzu-Chieh Wei
comments: 36 pages, single column, 6 figures, not published version (as restricted by the journal), please refer to ARCMP for the final published version
journal: Annual Review of Condensed Matter Physics, Vol. 3: 239-261 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0041
abstract: Quantum computation is a novel way of information processing which allows, for certain classes of problems, exponential speedups over classical computation. Various models of quantum computation exist, such as the adiabatic, circuit and measurement-based models. They have been proven equivalent in their computational power, but operate very differently. As such, they may be suitable for realization in different physical systems, and also offer different perspectives on open questions such as the precise origin of the quantum speedup. Here, we give an introduction to the one-way quantum computer, a scheme of measurement-based quantum computation. In this model, the computation is driven by local measurements on a carefully chosen, highly entangled state. We discuss various aspects of this computational scheme, such as the role of entanglement and quantum correlations. We also give examples for ground states of simple Hamiltonians which enable universal quantum computation by local measurements.

id: 1208.0067
title: Precision measurement of charge number with optomechanically induced transparency
authors: Jian-Qi Zhang, Yong Li, Mang Feng, Yi Xu
comments: 6 pages,4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053806 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0067
abstract: We propose a potentially practical scheme to precisely measure the charge numbers of small charged objects by optomechanical systems using optomechanically induced transparency (OMIT). In contrast to the conventional measurements based on the noise backaction on the optomechanical systems, our scheme makes use of the small deformation of the mechanical resonator sensitive to the charge number of the nearby charged object, which could achieve the detection of a single charge. The relationship between the charge number and the window width of the OMIT is investigated and the feasibility of the scheme is justified by numerical simulation using currently available experimental values.

id: 1208.0098
title: High-efficiency multipartite entanglement purification of electron-spin states with charge detection
authors: Tao Li, Bao-Cang Ren, Hai-Rui Wei, Ming Hua, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing 12, 855 - 876 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0098
abstract: We present a high-efficiency multipartite entanglement purification protocol (MEPP) for electron-spin systems in a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state based on their spins and their charges. Our MEPP contains two parts. The first part is our normal MEPP with which the parties can obtain a high-fidelity N-electron ensemble directly, similar to the MEPP with controlled-not gates. The second one is our recycling MEPP with entanglement link from N'-electron subsystems (2 < N' < N). It is interesting to show that the N'-electron subsystems can be obtained efficiently by measuring the electrons with potential bit-flip errors from the instances which are useless and are just discarded in all existing conventional MEPPs. Combining these two parts, our MEPP has the advantage of the efficiency higher than other MEPPs largely for electron-spin systems.

id: 1208.0102
title: Geometric measure of quantum discord for a two-parameter class of states in a qubit-qutrit system under various dissipative channels
authors: Hai-Rui Wei, Bao-Cang Ren, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. The models for noise channels are as the same as those in arXiv:1110.0382 (our another paper)
journal: Quantum Information Processing 12, 1109 - 1124 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0102
abstract: Quantum discord, as a measure of all quantum correlations, has been proposed as the key resource in certain quantum communication tasks and quantum computational models without containing much entanglement. Daki\'{c}, Vedral, and Brukner [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 190502 (2010)] introduced a geometric measure of quantum discord (GMQD) and derived an explicit formula for any two-qubit state. Luo and Fu [Phys. Rev. A 82, 034302 (2010)] introduced another form of GMQD and derived an explicit formula for arbitrary state in a bipartite quantum system. However, the explicit analytical expression for any bipartite system was not given. In this work, we give out the explicit analytical expressions of the GMQD for a two-parameter class of states in a qubit-qutrit system and study its dynamics for the states under various dissipative channels in the first time. Our results show that all these dynamic evolutions do not lead to a sudden vanishing of GMQD. Quantum correlations vanish at an asymptotic time for local or multi-local dephasing, phase-flip, and depolarizing noise channels. However, it does not disappear even though t ---> $\infty$ for local trit-flip and local trit-phase-flip channels. Our results maybe provide some important information for the application of GMQD in hybrid qubit-qutrit systems in quantum information.

id: 1208.0104
title: Hierarchy of measurement-induced Fisher information for composite states
authors: Xiao-Ming Lu, Shunlong Luo, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022342 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0104
abstract: Quantum Fisher information, as an intrinsic quantity for quantum states, is a central concept in quantum detection and estimation. When quantum measurements are performed on quantum states, classical probability distributions arise, which in turn lead to classical Fisher information. In this article, we exploit the classical Fisher information induced by quantum measurements, and reveal a rich hierarchical structure of such measurement-induced Fisher information. We establish a general framework for the distribution and transfer of the Fisher information. In particular, we illustrate three extremal distribution types of the Fisher information: the locally owned type, the locally inaccessible type, and the fully shared type. Furthermore, we indicate the significant role played by the distribution and flow of the Fisher information in some physical problems, e.g., the non-Markovianity of open quantum processes, the environment-assisted metrology, the cloning and broadcasting, etc.

id: 1208.0105
title: Single-photon-assisted entanglement concentration of a multi-photon system in a partially entangled W state with weak cross-Kerr nonlinearity
authors: Fang-Fang Du, Tao Li, Bao-Cang Ren, Hai-Rui Wei, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 29, 1399 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0105
abstract: We propose a nonlocal entanglement concentration protocol (ECP) for $N$-photon systems in a partially entangled W state, resorting to some ancillary single photons and the parity-check measurement based on cross-Kerr nonlinearity. One party in quantum communication first performs a parity-check measurement on her photon in an $N$-photon system and an ancillary photon, and then she picks up the even-parity instance for obtaining the standard W state. When she obtains an odd-parity instance, the system is in a less-entanglement state and it is the resource in the next round of entanglement concentration. By iterating the entanglement concentration process several times, the present ECP has the total success probability approaching to the limit in theory. The present ECP has the advantage of a high success probability. Moreover, the present ECP requires only the $N$-photon system itself and some ancillary single photons, not two copies of the systems, which decreases the difficulty of its implementation largely in experiment. It maybe have good applications in quantum communication in future.

id: 1208.0119
title: Relativistic Derivations of de Broglie and Planck-Einstein Equations
authors: Fabrizio Logiurato
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0119
abstract: We show how Special Relativity sets tight constraints on the form of possible relations that may exist between the four-momentum of a particle and the wave four-vector. More specifically, we demonstrate that there is just one way, according to Special Relativity, to relate the finite energy and momentum of a corpuscle with the characteristics of a plane wave, frequency, wave vector and amplitude: that is by laws of direct proportionality like de Broglie equation and Planck-Einstein equation.

id: 1208.0127
title: Fully integrated InGaAs/InP single-photon detector module with gigahertz sine wave gating
authors: Xiao-Lei Liang, Jian-Hong Liu, Quan Wang, De-Bing Du, Jian Ma, Ge Jin, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jun Zhang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. Accepted for publication in Review of Scientific Instruments
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 83, 083111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0127
abstract: InGaAs/InP single-photon avalanche diodes (SPADs) working in the regime of GHz clock rates are crucial components for the high-speed quantum key distribution (QKD). We have developed for the first time a compact, stable and user-friendly tabletop InGaAs/InP single-photon detector system operating at a 1.25 GHz gate rate that fully integrates functions for controlling and optimizing SPAD performance. We characterize the key parameters of the detector system and test the long-term stability of the system for continuous operation of 75 hours. The detector system can substantially enhance QKD performance and our present work paves the way for practical high-speed QKD applications.

id: 1208.0134
title: Many Body Physics with Coupled Transmission Line Resonators
authors: Martin Leib, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: submitted to the proceedings of the CEWQO 2012 conference
journal: Phys. Scr. 2013 014042
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0134
abstract: We present the Josephson junction intersected superconducting transmission line resonator. In contrast to the Josephson parametric amplifier, Josephson bifurcation amplifier and Josephson parametric converter we consider the regime of few microwave photons. We review the derivation of eigenmode frequencies and zero point fluctuations of the nonlinear transmission line resonator and the derivation of the eigenmode Kerr nonlinearities. Remarkably these nonlinearities can reach values comparable to Transmon qubits rendering the device ideal for accessing the strongly correlated regime. This is particularly interesting for investigation of quantum many-body dynamics of interacting particles under the influence of drive and dissipation. We provide current profiles for the device modes and investigate the coupling between resonators in a network of nonlinear transmission line resonators.

id: 1208.0161
title: Some applications of hypercontractive inequalities in quantum information theory
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 18 pages; v3: historical and typo fixes and additional remarks
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, vol. 53, 122206 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0161
abstract: Hypercontractive inequalities have become important tools in theoretical computer science and have recently found applications in quantum computation. In this note we discuss how hypercontractive inequalities, in various settings, can be used to obtain (fairly) concise proofs of several results in quantum information theory: a recent lower bound of Lancien and Winter on the bias achievable by local measurements which are 4-designs; spectral concentration bounds for k-local Hamiltonians; and a recent result of Pellegrino and Seoane-Sepulveda giving general lower bounds on the classical bias obtainable in multiplayer XOR games.

id: 1208.0194
title: Qcompiler: quantum compilation with CSD method
authors: Y. G. Chen, J. B. Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0194
abstract: In this paper, we present a general quantum computation compiler, which maps any given quantum algorithm to a quantum circuit consisting a sequential set of elementary quantum logic gates based on recursive cosine-sine decomposition. The resulting quantum circuit diagram is provided by directly linking the package output written in LaTex to Qcircuit.tex $<$this http URL>$. We illustrate the use of the Qcompiler package through various examples with full details of the derived quantum circuits. Besides its generality and simplicity, Qcompiler produces quantum circuits which reflect the symmetry of the systems under study.

id: 1208.0198
title: Dynamics of an Acoustic Black Hole as an Open Quantum System
authors: Fernando C. Lombardo, Gustavo J. Turiaci
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0198
abstract: We studied the process of decoherence induced by the presence of an environment in acoustic black holes, using the open quantum system approach, thus extending previous work. We focused on the ion trap model but the formalism is general to any experimental implementation. We computed the decoherence time for that setup. We found that a quantum to classical transition occurs during the measurement and we proposed improved parameters to avoid such a feature. We provide analytic estimations for both zero and finite temperature. We also studied the entanglement between the Hawking-pair phonons for an acoustic black hole while in contact with a reservoir, through the quantum correlations, showing that they remain strongly correlated for small enough times and temperatures. We used the stochastic formalism and the method of characteristic to solve the field wave equation.

id: 1208.0258
title: Stochastic Variational Method as Quantization Scheme I: Hamiltonian Form and Uncertainty Relation
authors: T. Koide, T. Kodama
comments: 21 pages, no figure, the title and the discussions are modified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0258
abstract: Stochastic Variational Method (SVM) is the generalization of the variation method to the case with stochastic variables. In this series of papers, we investigate the applicability of SVM as an alternative quantization scheme. In Part I, we discuss the formulation of the uncertainty relation in SVM by developing the Hamiltonian form of SVM. We further study that our formulation is applicable to define the uncertainty relation in a quantum dissipative process described by the Kostin equation and show that this minimum uncertainty relation does not disappear in the asymptotic limit of time.

id: 1208.0262
title: Quantum search in structured database using local adiabatic evolution and spectral methods
authors: R. Sufiani, N. Bahari
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0262
abstract: Since Grover's seminal work which provides a way to speed up combinatorial search, quantum search has been studied in great detail. We propose a new method for designing quantum search algorithms for finding a marked element in the state space of a graph. The algorithm is based on a local diabatic evolution of the Hamiltonian associated with the graph. The main new idea is to apply some techniques such as Krylov bspace projection methods, Lanczos algorithm and spectral distribution methods. Indeed, using these techniques together with the second-order perturbation theory, we give a systematic method for calculating the approximate search time at which the marked state can be reached. That is, for any undirected regular connected graph which is considered as the state space of the database, the introduced algorithm provides a systematic and programmable way for evaluation of the search time, in terms of the corresponding graph polynomials.

id: 1208.0303
title: Casimir force of expulsion
authors: Evgeny G. Fateev
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0303
abstract: The possibility in principle is shown that the noncompensated Casimir force can exist in nanosized open metal cavities. The force shows up as time-constant expulsion of open cavities toward their least opening. The optimal parameters of the angles of the opening, of "generating lines" of cavities and their lengths are found at which the expulsive force is maximal. The theory is created for trapezoid configurations, in particular for parallel mirrors which experience both the transverse Casimir pressure and longitudinal compression at zero general expulsive force.

id: 1208.0313
title: Realization of the driven nonlinear Schr?dinger equation with stationary light
authors: Priyam Das, Changsuk Noh, Dimitris G. Angelakis
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, revised version; new result added
journal: Europhys. Lett. 103 (2013) 34001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0313
abstract: We introduce a versatile platform for studying nonlinear out-of-equilibrium physics. The platform is based on a slow light setup where an optical waveguide is interfaced with cold atoms to realize the driven nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation with a potential. We compare the proposed setup with similar setups using Bose-Einstein condensates and investigate the system's response under coherent driving for a lattice potential. The slow light setup provides novel angles in the study of nonlinear dynamics due to its advantages in introducing and modulating the driving, the extra tunability over the sign and strength of the available nonlinearities, and the possibility to electromagnetically carve out the underlying potential on demand.

id: 1208.0327
title: Quantum many-body dynamics in optomechanical arrays
authors: Max Ludwig, Florian Marquardt
comments: 5+4 pages, 4+3 figures; revised manuscript
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 073603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0327
abstract: We study the nonlinear driven dissipative quantum dynamics of an array of optomechanical systems. At each site of such an array, a localized mechanical mode interacts with a laser-driven cavity mode via radiation pressure, and both photons and phonons can hop between neighboring sites. The competition between coherent interaction and dissipation gives rise to a rich phase diagram characterizing the optical and mechanical many-body states. For weak intercellular coupling, the mechanical motion at different sites is incoherent due to the influence of quantum noise. When increasing the coupling strength, however, we observe a transition towards a regime of phase-coherent mechanical oscillations. We employ a Gutzwiller ansatz as well as semiclassical Langevin equations on finite lattices, and we propose a realistic experimental implementation in optomechanical crystals.

id: 1208.0355
title: Dephasing dynamics of Rydberg atom spin waves
authors: F. Bariani, Paul M. Goldbart, T. A. B. Kennedy
comments: 4 pages, Supplemental Material in Appendix, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 041802(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0355
abstract: A theory of Rydberg atom interactions is used to derive analytical forms for the spin wave pair correlation function in laser-excited cold-atom vapors. This function controls the quantum statistics of light emission from dense, inhomogeneous clouds of cold atoms of various spatial dimensionalities. The results yield distinctive scaling behaviors on the microsecond timescale, including generalized exponential decay. A detailed comparison is presented with a recent experiment on a cigar-shaped atomic ensemble [Y. Dudin and A. Kuzmich, Science 336, 887 (2012)], in which Rb atoms are excited to a set of Rydberg levels.

id: 1208.0365
title: Entanglement Polytopes: Multiparticle Entanglement from Single-Particle Information
authors: Michael Walter, Brent Doran, David Gross, Matthias Christandl
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures
journal: Science, vol. 340, no. 6137, pp. 1205-1208 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0365
abstract: Entangled many-body states are an essential resource for quantum computing and interferometry. Determining the type of entanglement present in a system usually requires access to an exponential number of parameters. We show that in the case of pure multi-particle quantum states, features of the global entanglement can already be extracted from local information alone. This is achieved by associating with any given class of entanglement an entanglement polytope---a geometric object which characterizes the single-particle states compatible with that class. Our results, applicable to systems of arbitrary size and statistics, give rise to local witnesses for global pure-state entanglement, and can be generalized to states affected by low levels of noise.

id: 1208.0391
title: Large Scale Modular Quantum Computer Architecture with Atomic Memory and Photonic Interconnects
authors: C. Monroe, R. Raussendorf, A. Ruthven, K. R. Brown, P. Maunz, L.-M. Duan, J. Kim
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022317 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0391
abstract: The practical construction of scalable quantum computer hardware capable of executing non-trivial quantum algorithms will require the juxtaposition of different types of quantum systems. We analyze a modular ion trap quantum computer architecture with a hierarchy of interactions that can scale to very large numbers of qubits. Local entangling quantum gates between qubit memories within a single register are accomplished using natural interactions between the qubits, and entanglement between separate registers is completed via a probabilistic photonic interface between qubits in different registers, even over large distances. We show that this architecture can be made fault-tolerant, and demonstrate its viability for fault-tolerant execution of modest size quantum circuits.

id: 1208.0424
title: Quantum random walk : effect of quenching
authors: Sanchari Goswami, Parongama Sen
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, accepted version in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022314 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0424
abstract: We study the effect of quenching on a discrete quantum random walk by removing a detector placed at a position $x_D$ abruptly at time $t_R$ from its path. The results show that this may lead to an enhancement of the occurrence probability at $x_D$ provided the time of removal $t_R < t_{R}^{lim}$ where $t_{R}^{lim}$ scales as $x_D{^2}$. The ratio of the occurrence probabilities for a quenched walker ($t_R \neq 0$) and free walker ($t_R =0$) shows that it scales as $1/t_R$ at large values of $t_R$ independent of $x_D$. On the other hand if $t_R$ is fixed this ratio varies as $x_{D}^{2}$ for small $x_D$. The results are compared to the classical case. We also calculate the correlations as functions of both time and position.

id: 1208.0442
title: Continuous-variable blind quantum computation
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 230502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0442
abstract: Blind quantum computation is a secure delegated quantum computing protocol where Alice who does not have sufficient quantum technology at her disposal delegates her computation to Bob who has a fully-fledged quantum computer in such a way that Bob cannot learn anything about Alice's input, output, and algorithm. Protocols of blind quantum computation have been proposed for several qubit measurement-based computation models, such as the graph state model, the Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki model, and the Raussendorf-Harrington-Goyal topological model. Here, we consider blind quantum computation for the continuous-variable measurement-based model. We show that blind quantum computation is possible for the infinite squeezing case. We also show that the finite squeezing causes no additional problem in the blind setup apart from the one inherent to the continuous-variable measurement-based quantum computation.

id: 1208.0453
title: Effect of Tensor Interaction in the Dirac-Attractive Radial Problem under Pseudospin Symmetry limit
authors: Majid Hamzavi, M. Eshghi, Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53 (8) (2012) 082101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0453
abstract: We approximately investigated pseudospin symmetric solutions of the Dirac equation for attractive radial potential including a Coulomb-like tensor interaction under pseudospin symmetry limit for any spin-orbit quantum number . By using the parametric generalization of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method, the energy eigenvalues equation and the corresponding wave functions have been obtained in closed forms. Some numerical results are also given. We presented tensor interaction removes degeneracy between two states in pseudospin doublets.

id: 1208.0455
title: Generating entanglement with low Q-factor microcavities
authors: A. B. Young, C. Y. Hu, J. G. Rarity
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0455
abstract: We propose a method of generating entanglement using single photons and electron spins in the regime of resonance scattering. The technique involves matching the spontaneous emission rate of the spin dipole transition in bulk dielectric to the modified rate of spontaneous emission of the dipole coupled to the fundamental mode of an optical microcavity. We call this regime resonance scattering where interference between the input photons and those scattered by the resonantly coupled dipole transition result in a reflectivity of zero. The contrast between this and the unit reflectivity when the cavity is empty allow us to perform a non demolition measurement of the spin and to non deterministically generate entanglement between photons and spins. The chief advantage of working in the regime of resonance scattering is that the required cavity quality factors are orders of magnitude lower than is required for strong coupling, or Purcell enhancement. This makes engineering a suitable cavity much easier particularly in materials such as diamond where etching high quality factor cavities remains a significant challenge.

id: 1208.0478
title: Properties of the Schwinger series and pair creation in strong fields
authors: B. B. Levchenko
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; Based on a report presented at the conference "Lomonosov Readings", MSU, Moscow, Russia, 14 Nov 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0478
abstract: Probabilities of a pair of fermions and bosons creation in a static and spatially uniform electric field E are represented in the Schwinger formulas by infinite series. It is believed that in weak fields the main contribution to the probability is given by the first term of series, however the size of the remainder apparently was analyzed by nobody. We study the mathematical structure of the Schwinger series by using methods developed during last decades and prove that the given series allows an exact summation and the contribution of remainder growths rapidly with the field strength. As a rule, it is argued that the pair of particles begin to be produced efficiently from the vacuum only in the fields of strength E >= E_cr. However, the direct calculation shows that the Schwinger formula for creation of e+e- pairs is valid only at the field intensities of E < 0.0291*E_cr. At higher fields, the probability of pair production in an unit space-time volume exceeds unity. In this regard, we refine the formula for the probability of pair creation and numerically find that in the field of strength 2.95% of E_cr the pair production probability is almost 100%.

id: 1208.0493
title: Existence of an information unit as a postulate of quantum theory
authors: Lluis Masanes, Markus P. Mueller, Remigiusz Augusiak, David Perez-Garcia
comments: Published version - 6 pages, 3 appendices, 3 figures
journal: PNAS vol 110 no 41 page 16373 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0493
abstract: Does information play a significant role in the foundations of physics? Information is the abstraction that allows us to refer to the states of systems when we choose to ignore the systems themselves. This is only possible in very particular frameworks, like in classical or quantum theory, or more generally, whenever there exists an information unit such that the state of any system can be reversibly encoded in a sufficient number of such units. In this work we show how the abstract formalism of quantum theory can be deduced solely from the existence of an information unit with suitable properties, together with two further natural assumptions: the continuity and reversibility of dynamics, and the possibility of characterizing the state of a composite system by local measurements. This constitutes a new set of postulates for quantum theory with a simple and direct physical meaning, like the ones of special relativity or thermodynamics, and it articulates a strong connection between physics and information.

id: 1208.0532
title: Real-time monitoring of single-photon detectors against eavesdropping in quantum key distribution systems
authors: T. Ferreira da Silva, G. B. Xavier, G. P. Tempor?o, J. P. von der Weid
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 20, 18911-18924 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0532
abstract: By employing real-time monitoring of single-photon avalanche photodiodes we demonstrate how two types of practical eavesdropping strategies, the after-gate and time-shift attacks, may be detected. Both attacks are identified with the detectors operating without any special modifications, making this proposal well suited for real-world applications. The monitoring system is based on accumulating statistics of the times between consecutive detection events, and extracting the afterpulse and overall efficiency of the detectors in real-time using mathematical models fit to the measured data. We are able to directly observe changes in the afterpulse probabilities generated from the after-gate and faint after-gate attacks, as well as different timing signatures in the time-shift attack. We also discuss the applicability of our scheme to other general blinding attacks.

id: 1208.0555
title: Geometric Phase Gates with Adiabatic Control in Electron Spin Resonance
authors: Hua Wu, Erik M. Gauger, Richard E. George, Mikko M?tt?nen, Helge Riemann, Nikolai V. Abrosimov, Peter Becker, Hans-Joachim Pohl, Kohei M. Itoh, Mike L. W. Thewalt, John J. L. Morton
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032326 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0555
abstract: High-fidelity quantum operations are a key requirement for fault-tolerant quantum information processing. In electron spin resonance, manipulation of the quantum spin is usually achieved with time-dependent microwave fields. In contrast to the conventional dynamic approach, adiabatic geometric phase operations are expected to be less sensitive to certain kinds of noise and field inhomogeneities. Here, we investigate such phase gates applied to electron spins both through simulations and experiments, showing that the adiabatic geometric phase gate is indeed inherently robust against inhomogeneity in the applied microwave field strength. While only little advantage is offered over error-correcting composite pulses for modest inhomogeneities <=10%, the adiabatic approach reveals its potential for situations where field inhomogeneities are unavoidably large.

id: 1208.0609
title: Studying Free-Space Transmission Statistics and Improving Free-Space QKD in the Turbulent Atmosphere
authors: C. Erven, B. Heim, E. Meyer-Scott, J. P. Bourgoin, R. Laflamme, G. Weihs, T. Jennewein
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 123018 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0609
abstract: The statistical fluctuations in free-space links in the turbulent atmosphere are important for the distribution of quantum signals. To that end, we first study statistics generated by the turbulent atmosphere in an entanglement based free-space quantum key distribution (QKD) system. Using the insights gained from this analysis, we study the effect of link fluctuations on the security and key generation rate of decoy state QKD concluding that it has minimal effect in the typical operating regimes. We then investigate the novel idea of using these turbulent fluctuations to our advantage in QKD experiments. We implement a signal-to-noise ratio filter (SNRF) in our QKD system which rejects measurements during periods of low transmission efficiency, where the measured quantum bit error rate (QBER) is temporarily elevated. Using this, we increase the total secret key generated by the system from 78,009 bits to 97,678 bits, representing an increase of 25.2% in the final secure key rate, generated from the same raw signals. Lastly, we present simulations of a QKD exchange with an orbiting LEO satellite and show that an SNRF will be extremely useful in such a situation, allowing many more passes to extract a secret key than would otherwise be possible.

id: 1208.0618
title: Time periodicity and dynamical stability in two-boson systems
authors: Jose Reslen
comments: 7+ pages, 5 figures
journal: Braz. J. Phys., Vol. 43, P. 5-12 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0618
abstract: We calculate the period of recurrence of dynamical systems comprising two interacting bosons. A number of theoretical issues related to this problem are discussed, in particular, the conditions for small periodicity. The knowledge gathered in this way is then used to propose a notion of dynamical stability based on the stability of the period. Dynamical simulations show good agreement with the proposed scheme. We also apply the results to the phenomenon known as coherent population trapping and find stability conditions in this specific case.

id: 1208.0622
title: Closing the detection loophole in multipartite Bell tests using GHZ states
authors: Karoly F. Pal, Tamas Vertesi, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0622
abstract: We investigate the problem of closing the detection loophole in multipartite Bell tests, and show that the required detection efficiencies can be significantly lowered compared to the bipartite case. In particular, we present Bell tests based on n-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, which can tolerate efficiencies as low as 38% for a reasonable number of parties and measurements. Even in the presence of a significant amount of noise, efficiencies below 50% can be tolerated, which is encouraging given recent experimental progress. Finally we give strong evidence that, for a sufficiently large number of parties and measurements, arbitrarily small efficiencies can be tolerated, even in the presence of an arbitrary large amount of noise.

id: 1208.0624
title: Calculation of the electron two-slit experiment using a quantum mechanical variational principle
authors: Alan K. Harrison
comments: This is an author-created, un-copyedited version of an article accepted for publication in Physica Scripta T. IOP Publishing Ltd is not responsible for any errors or omissions in this version of the manuscript or any version derived from it. The definitive publisher-authenticated version will be available in the near future
journal: Phys. Scr. T 151 (2012) 014006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0624
abstract: A nonlocal relativistic variational principle (VP) has recently been proposed as an alternative to the Dirac wave equation of standard quantum mechanics. We apply that principle to the electron two-slit experiment. The detection system is modelled as a screen made of atoms, any one of which can be excited by the incident electron, but we avoid restricting the detection mechanism further. The VP is shown to predict that, at the time the electron reaches the screen, its wavefunction will be localized to the neighborhood of a single atom, resulting in a position-type measurement. In an ensemble of such experiments ("identically prepared" except that the initial phase of the wavefunction--the hidden variable in the VP formulation--is sampled over the expected uniform distribution), the distribution of measured positions will reproduce the interference pattern predicted by the Dirac equation. We also demonstrate that with a detection system designed fundamentally to detect the electron's transverse wavelength rather than its position, the VP predicts that one such mode will be detected, that is, a wavelength measurement will result. Finally, it is shown that these results are unchanged in the "delayed choice" variant of the experiment.

id: 1208.0661
title: Private Quantum Coding for Quantum Relay Networks
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi, Sandor Imre
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, Journal-ref: Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 7479, pp. 239-250. Springer-Verlag, 2012, presented in part at the 11th Intl. Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing (QCMC2012), v2: minor formatting changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0661
abstract: The relay encoder is an unreliable probabilistic device which is aimed at helping the communication between the sender and the receiver. In this work we show that in the quantum setting the probabilistic behavior can be completely eliminated. We also show how to combine quantum polar encoding with superactivation-assistance in order to achieve reliable and capacity-achieving private communication over noisy quantum relay channels.

id: 1208.0663
title: Robust optimal quantum learning without quantum memory
authors: G. Sent¨ªs, J. Calsamiglia, R. Munoz-Tapia, E. Bagan
comments: Extended version of Scientific Reports publication. Typos corrected
journal: Sci. Rep. 2, 708 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0663
abstract: A quantum learning machine for binary classification of qubit states that does not require quantum memory is introduced and shown to perform with the minimum error rate allowed by quantum mechanics for any size of the training set. This result is shown to be robust under (an arbitrary amount of) noise and under (statistical) variations in the composition of the training set, provided it is large enough. This machine can be used an arbitrary number of times without retraining. Its required classical memory grows only logarithmically with the number of training qubits, while its excess risk decreases as the inverse of this number, and twice as fast as the excess risk of an estimate-and-discriminate machine, which estimates the states of the training qubits and classifies the data qubit with a discrimination protocol tailored to the obtained estimates.

id: 1208.0668
title: Quantum cube: A toy model of a qubit
authors: Pawel Blasiak
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; Final version as published in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377, 847-850 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0668
abstract: Account of a system may depend on available methods of gaining information. We discuss a simple discrete system whose description is affected by a specific model of measurement and transformations. It is shown that the limited means of investigating the system make the epistemic account of the model indistinguishable from a constrained version of a qubit corresponding to the convex hull of eigenstates of Pauli operators, Clifford transformations and Pauli observables.

id: 1208.0674
title: God may not play dice, but human observers surely do
authors: Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: 
journal: Foundations of Science: Volume 20, Issue 1 (2015), Page 77-105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0674
abstract: We investigate indeterminism in physical observations. For this, we introduce a distinction between genuinely indeterministic (creation-1 and discovery-1) observational processes, and fully deterministic (creation-2 and discovery-2) observational processes, which we analyze by drawing a parallel between the localization properties of microscopic entities, like electrons, and the lateralization properties of macroscopic entities, like simple elastic bands. We show that by removing the randomness incorporated in certain of our observational processes, acquiring over them a better control, we also alter these processes in such a radical way that in the end they do not correspond anymore to the observation of the same property. We thus conclude that a certain amount of indeterminism must be accepted and welcomed in our physical observations, as we cannot get rid of it without also diminishing our discriminative power. We also provide in our analysis some elements of clarification regarding the non-spatial nature of microscopic entities, which we illustrate by using an analogy with the process of objectification of human concepts. Finally, the important notion of relational properties is properly defined, and the role played by indeterminism in their characterization clarified.

id: 1208.0677
title: Quantum Memory with a controlled homogeneous splitting
authors: G. H¨¦tet, D. Wilkowski, T. Chaneli¨¨re
comments: submitted to New Journal of Physics, Focus on Quantum Memory
journal: 2013 New J. Phys. 15 045015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0677
abstract: We propose a quantum memory protocol where a input light field can be stored onto and released from a single ground state atomic ensemble by controlling dynamically the strength of an external static and homogeneous field. The technique relies on the adiabatic following of a polaritonic excitation onto a state for which the forward collective radiative emission is forbidden. The resemblance with the archetypal Electromagnetically-Induced-Transparency (EIT) is only formal because no ground state coherence based slow-light propagation is considered here. As compared to the other grand category of protocols derived from the photon-echo technique, our approach only involves a homogeneous static field. We discuss two physical situations where the effect can be observed, and show that in the limit where the excited state lifetime is longer than the storage time, the protocols are perfectly efficient and noise-free. We compare the technique to other quantum memories, and propose atomic systems where the experiment can be realized.

id: 1208.0681
title: Optomechanical coupling between a moving dielectric sphere and radiation fields: a Lagrangian-Hamiltonian formalism
authors: H. K. Cheung, C. K. Law
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033807 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0681
abstract: We present a Lagrangian-Hamiltonian formalism of a moving dielectric sphere interacting with radiation fields. By including the interaction up to the first order in the speed of the sphere, we derive the Hamiltonian and perform quantization of both the field and the mechanical motion of the sphere. In particular, we show how independent degrees of freedom can be consistently identified under the generalized radiation gauge via instantaneous mode projection. Our Hamiltonian indicates the form of coupling due to velocity-dependent interactions beyond adiabatic approximation. In addition, the Hamiltonian predicts that a geometrical quantum phase can be gained by the sphere moving in a light field.

id: 1208.0692
title: Local random quantum circuits are approximate polynomial-designs
authors: Fernando G. S. L. Brandao, Aram W. Harrow, Michal Horodecki
comments: 36 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0692
abstract: We prove that local random quantum circuits acting on n qubits composed of polynomially many nearest neighbor two-qubit gates form an approximate unitary poly(n)-design. Previously it was unknown whether random quantum circuits were a t-design for any t > 3. The proof is based on an interplay of techniques from quantum many-body theory, representation theory, and the theory of Markov chains. In particular we employ a result of Nachtergaele for lower bounding the spectral gap of quantum local Hamiltonians; a quasi-orthogonality property of permutation matrices; a result of Oliveira which extends to the unitary group the path-coupling method for bounding the mixing time of random walks; and a result of Bourgain and Gamburd showing that dense subgroups of the special unitary group, composed of elements with algebraic entries, are infinity-copy tensor-product expanders. We also consider pseudo-randomness properties of local random quantum circuits of small depth and prove they constitute a quantum poly(n)-copy tensor-product expander. The proof also rests on techniques from quantum many-body theory, in particular on the detectability lemma of Aharonov et al. We give three applications of the results. First we show that almost every circuit U of size n^k on n qubits cannot be distinguished from a Haar uniform unitary by circuits of size n^[(k+3)/6] that are given oracle access to U; this provides a data-hiding scheme against computationally bounded adversaries. Second we reconsider a recent argument of Masanes et al concerning local equilibration of time-evolving quantum systems, and strengthen the connection between fast equilibration of small subsystems and the circuit complexity of the Hamiltonian. Third we show that in one dimension almost every parallel local circuit of linear depth generates topological order, matching an upper bound to the problem due to Bravyi et al.

id: 1208.0710
title: Growth of graph states in quantum networks
authors: Mart¨ª Cuquet, John Calsamiglia
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0710
abstract: We propose a scheme to distribute graph states over quantum networks in the presence of noise in the channels and in the operations. The protocol can be implemented efficiently for large graph sates of arbitrary (complex) topology. We benchmark our scheme with two protocols where each connected component is prepared in a node belonging to the component and subsequently distributed via quantum repeaters to the remaining connected nodes. We show that the fidelity of the generated graphs can be written as the partition function of a classical Ising-type Hamiltonian. We give exact expressions of the fidelity of the linear cluster and results for its decay rate in random graphs with arbitrary (uncorrelated) degree distributions.

id: 1208.0745
title: Secure and Robust Transmission and Verification of Unknown Quantum States in Minkowski Space
authors: Adrian Kent, Serge Massar, Jonathan Silman
comments: Reformatted for journal. Minor explanatory additions
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 3901 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0745
abstract: An important class of cryptographic applications of relativistic quantum information work as follows. B generates a random qudit and supplies it to A at point P. A is supposed to transmit it at near light speed c to to one of a number of possible pairwise spacelike separated points Q1; : : : ;Qn. A's transmission is supposed to be secure, in the sense that B cannot tell in advance which Qj will be chosen. This poses signi?ficant practical challenges, since secure reliable long-range transmission of quantum data at speeds near to c is presently not easy. Here we propose di?fferent techniques to overcome these diffi?culties. We introduce protocols that allow secure long-range implementations even when both parties control only widely separated laboratories of small size. In particular we introduce a protocol in which A needs send the qudit only over a short distance, and securely transmits classical information (for instance using a one time pad) over the remaining distance. We further show that by using parallel implementations of the protocols security can be maintained in the presence of moderate amounts of losses and errors.

id: 1208.0746
title: Minimal sets determining universal and phase-covariant quantum cloning
authors: Li Jing, Yi-Nan Wang, Han-Duo Shi, Liang-Zhu Mu, Heng Fan
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A (2012) 86, 062315
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0746
abstract: We study the minimal input sets which can determine completely the universal and the phase-covariant quantum cloning machines. We find that the universal quantum cloning machine, which can copy arbitrary input qubit equally well, however can be determined completely by only four input states located at the four vertices of a tetrahedron. The phase-covariant quantum cloning machine, which can copy all qubits located on the equator of the Bloch sphere, can be determined by three equatorial qubits with equal angular distance. These results sharpen further the well-known results that BB84 states and six-states used in quantum cryptography can determine completely the phase-covariant and universal quantum cloning machines. This concludes the study of the power of universal and phase-covariant quantum cloning, i.e., from minimal input sets necessarily to full input sets by definition. This can simplify dramatically the testing of whether the quantum clone machines are successful or not, we only need to check that the minimal input sets can be cloned optimally.

id: 1208.0749
title: Secular master equation for adiabatically time dependent systems
authors: I. Kamleitner
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042111 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0749
abstract: Relying only on first principles, we derive a master equation of Lindblad form generally applicable for adiabatically time dependent systems. Our analysis shows that the much debated secular approximation can be valid for slowly time dependent Hamiltonians when performed in an appropriate basis. We apply our approach to the well known Landau-Zener problem where we find that adiabaticity is improved by coupling to a low temperature environment.

id: 1208.0765
title: From Classical Four-Wave Mixing to Parametric Fluorescence in Silicon micro-ring resonators
authors: Stefano Azzini, Davide Grassani, Matteo Galli, Lucio Claudio Andreani, Marc Sorel, Michael J. Strain, L. G. Helt, J. E. Sipe, Marco Liscidini, Daniele Bajoni
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 37 Issue 18, pp.3807-3809 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0765
abstract: Four-wave mixing can be stimulated or occur spontaneously. The first process is intrinsically much stronger, and well understood through classical nonlinear optics. The latter, also known as parametric fluorescence, can be explained only in the framework of a quantum theory of light. We experimentally demonstrate that, in a micro-ring resonator, there exists a simple relation between the efficiencies of these two processes, which is independent of the nonlinearity and size of the ring. In particular we show that the average power generated by parametric fluorescence can be immediately estimated from a classical FWM experiment. These results suggest that classical nonlinear characterization of a photonic integrated structure can provide accurate information on its nonlinear quantum properties.

id: 1208.0802
title: Wave-particle duality in an environment with arbitrary white noise
authors: J. G. Filgueiras, R. S. Sarthour, A. M. S. Souza, I. S. Oliveira, R. M. Serra, L. C. C¨¦leri
comments: 5 Pages. 1 Figure. Comments are welcome!
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 245301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0802
abstract: The development of quantum technologies depends on investigating of the behavior of quantum systems in noisy environments, since complete isolation from its environment is impossible to achieve. In this paper we show that a wave-particle duality experiment performed in a system with an arbitrarily white noise level cannot be explained in classical terms, using hidden-variables models. In the light of our results, we analyze recent optical and NMR experiments and show that a loophole on non-locality is not fundamental.

id: 1208.0845
title: Study the dynamics of the nonspreading Airy packets from the time evolution operator
authors: Chyi-Lung Lin, Te-Chih Hsiung, Meng-Jie Huang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0845
abstract: Berry and Balazs showed that an initial Airy packet Ai(b x) under time evolution is nonspreading in free space and also in a homogeneous time-varying linear potential V(x,t)=-F(t) x. We find both results can be derived from the time evolution operator U(t). We show that U(t) can be decomposed into ordered product of operators and is essentially a shift operator in x; hence, Airy packets evolve without distortion. By writing the Hamiltonian H as H=H_b+H_i, where H_b is the Hamiltonian such that Ai(b x) is its eigenfunction. Then, H_i is shown to be as an interacting Hamiltonian that causes the Airy packet into an accelerated motion of which the acceleration a=(-H_i/( x))/m. Nonspreading Airy packet then acts as a classical particle of mass m, and the motion of it can be described classically by H_i.

id: 1208.0860
title: Detecting Entanglement with Partial State Information
authors: Federico M. Spedalieri
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, v2; title changed, expanded description of the approach, extension to multipartite case, figure added, references added and corrected. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062311 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0860
abstract: We introduce a sequence of numerical tests that can determine the entanglement or separability of a state even when there is not enough information to completely determine its density matrix. Given partial information about the state in the form of linear constraints on the density matrix, the sequence of tests can prove that either all states satisfying the constraints are entangled, or there is at least one separable state that satisfies them. The algorithm works even if the values of the constraints are only known to fall in a certain range. If the states are entangled, an entanglement witness is constructed and lower bounds on entanglement measures and related quantities are provided; if a separable state satisfies the constraints, a separable decomposition is provided to certify this fact.

id: 1208.0866
title: Polarization-stable long-distance interference of independent photons for quantum communications
authors: T. Ferreira da Silva, D. Vitoreti, G. B. Xavier, G. P. Tempor?o, J. P. von der Weid
comments: 
journal: in Research in Optical Sciences, OSA Technical Digest (Optical Society of America, 2012), paper QW2A.4
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0866
abstract: Interference between fully-independent faint laser sources over two 8.5-km full polarization-controlled fiber links was performed, with stable visibility of 47.8%, an essential step towards practical implementation of quantum communication protocols.

id: 1208.0879
title: The One-Way Information Deficit and Geometry for a Class of Two-qubit States
authors: Yao-Kun Wang, Teng Ma, Bo Li, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0879
abstract: The work deficit, as introduced by Jonathan Oppenheim \emph{et al}[Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{89}, 180402 (2002)] is a good measure of the quantum correlations in a state and provides a new standpoint for understanding quantum non-locality. In this paper, we analytically evaluate the one-way information deficit (OWID) for the Bell-diagonal states and a class of two-qubit states and further give the geometry picture for OWID. The dynamic behavior of the OWID under decoherence channel is investigated and it is shown that the OWID of some classes of $X$ states is more robust against the decoherence than the entanglement.

id: 1208.0904
title: Decoherence and definite outcomes
authors: Klaus Colanero
comments: 102 pages, in English. Thesis work for the "Laura Magistrale Interfacolt\`a in Logica, Filosofia e Storia della Scienza" at Universit\`a degli studi di Firenze. Supervisors: Prof. Roberto Casalbuoni and Prof. Elena Castellani
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0904
abstract: This thesis has three aims: (1) to clarify in detail the relation between the decoherence mechanism and the problem of definite outcomes, (2) to dispel common misconceptions about the measurement problem in quantum mechanics, and (3) to present some recent alternative approaches in the quest for a satisfactory solution of the definite outcomes problem.

id: 1208.0907
title: Experimental realization of an entanglement filter through the environmental selection
authors: C. Zu, Y.-X. Wang, X.-Y. Chang, P.-Y. Hou, H.-X. Yang, L.-M. Duan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0907
abstract: We report an experiment that uses the environmental selection, a key concept in the recent theory of quantum Darwinism, as a mechanism to realize the entanglement filter, a useful quantum information device that filters out certain entangled states. In the experiment, the environment of two qubits is controlled to favor an entangled state and kill other competing components in the input state. The initial state has vanishing entanglement, but the state surviving after interaction with the environment is close to a maximally entangled state, with an entanglement fidelity of $(94.7\pm 1.9)%$ measured through the quantum state tomography. We experimentally demonstrate that the generated entanglement is robust under change of the initial state configurations and the environmental parameters.

id: 1208.0908
title: A Geometric Picture of the Wave Function: Fermi's Trick
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0908
abstract: We show that there is a one-to-one correspondence between wave functions and surfaces in the position-momentum phase plane bounded by a closed curve satisfying an exact quantum condition refining the usual EBK condition. This is achieved using an old forgotten idea of Enrico Fermi.

id: 1208.0915
title: Quantum optomechanics of a multimode system coupled via photothermal and radiation pressure force
authors: Mehdi Abdi, Ali Reza Bahrampour, David Vitali
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043803 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0915
abstract: We provide a full quantum description of the optomechanical system formed by a Fabry-Perot cavity with a movable micro-mechanical mirror whose center-of-mass and internal elastic modes are coupled to the driven cavity mode by both radiation pressure and photothermal force. Adopting a quantum Langevin description, we investigate simultaneous cooling of the micromirror elastic and center-of-mass modes, and also the entanglement properties of the optomechanical multipartite system in its steady state.

id: 1208.0928
title: Surface codes: Towards practical large-scale quantum computation
authors: Austin G. Fowler, Matteo Mariantoni, John M. Martinis, Andrew N. Cleland
comments: 54 pages, 35 figures, version incorporating referee and community feedback. Additional comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032324 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0928
abstract: This article provides an introduction to surface code quantum computing. We first estimate the size and speed of a surface code quantum computer. We then introduce the concept of the stabilizer, using two qubits, and extend this concept to stabilizers acting on a two-dimensional array of physical qubits, on which we implement the surface code. We next describe how logical qubits are formed in the surface code array and give numerical estimates of their fault-tolerance. We outline how logical qubits are physically moved on the array, how qubit braid transformations are constructed, and how a braid between two logical qubits is equivalent to a controlled-NOT. We then describe the single-qubit Hadamard, S and T operators, completing the set of required gates for a universal quantum computer. We conclude by briefly discussing physical implementations of the surface code. We include a number of appendices in which we provide supplementary information to the main text.

id: 1208.0948
title: The substructure of a Quantum Oscillator field
authors: Giovanni Guido
comments: Updated with fixed figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0948
abstract: An oscillator (IQuO) more elementary than the quantum one is formulated. This is expressed by quantum operators (a, a+), with two-components and it is composed of sub-oscillators, each with "semi-quanta" (1/2h). The commutation relation of the (a,a+) "semi-quanta" operators is then calculated and the structure by IQuO of the scalar fields is defined with and without electric charge. Processing a coupling mechanism of electrically neutral IQuO that produces a pair (matter-antimatter) with electric charge and not. Through the IQuO-structure it is possible to interpret the electric charge and the isospin (in hadrons) as rotations in an inside space in the particle. Finally, a sub-structure of the quarks is conjectured and one define in probabilistic terms the non-integer value of their electrical charge.

id: 1208.0969
title: Dynamics of spontaneous emission in a single-end photonic waveguide
authors: T. Tufarelli, F. Ciccarello, M. S. Kim
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013820 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0969
abstract: We investigate the spontaneous emission of a two-level system, e.g. an atom or atomlike object, coupled to a single-end, i.e., semi-infinite, one-dimensional photonic waveguide such that one end behaves as a perfect mirror while light can pass through the opposite end with no back-reflection. Through a quantum microscopic model we show that such geometry can cause non-exponential and long-lived atomic decay. Under suitable conditions, a bound atom-photon stationary state appears in the atom-mirror interspace so as to trap a considerable amount of initial atomic excitation. Yet, this can be released by applying an atomic frequency shift causing a revival of photon emission. The resilience of such effects to typical detrimental factors is analyzed.

id: 1208.1005
title: Realization of the probability laws in the quantum central limit theorems by a quantum walk
authors: Takuya Machida
comments: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.13 No.5&6, pp.430-438 (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1005
abstract: Since a limit distribution of a discrete-time quantum walk on the line was derived in 2002, a lot of limit theorems for quantum walks with a localized initial state have been reported. On the other hand, in quantum probability theory, there are four notions of independence (free, monotone, commuting, and boolean independence) and quantum central limit theorems associated to each independence have been investigated. The relation between quantum walks and quantum probability theory is still unknown. As random walks are fundamental models in the Kolmogorov probability theory, can the quantum walks play an important role in quantum probability theory? To discuss this problem, we focus on a discrete-time 2-state quantum walk with a non-localized initial state and present a limit theorem. By using our limit theorem, we generate probability laws in the quantum central limit theorems from the quantum walk.

id: 1208.1012
title: Topological Wilson-loop area law manifested using a superposition of loops
authors: Erez Zohar, Benni Reznik
comments: Superceding arXiv:1206.2021v1 [quant-ph]
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 043041
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1012
abstract: We introduce a new topological effect involving interference of two meson loops, manifesting a path-independent topological area dependence. The effect also draws a connection between quark confinement, Wilson-loops and topological interference effects. Although this is only a gedanken experiment in the context of particle physics, such an experiment may be realized and used as a tool to test confinement effects and phase transitions in quantum simulation of dynamic gauge theories.

id: 1208.1015
title: Quantum bath refrigeration towards absolute zero: unattainability principle challenged
authors: Michal Kol¨¢?, David Gelbwaser-Klimovsky, Robert Alicki, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 090601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1015
abstract: A minimal model of a quantum refrigerator (QR), i.e. a periodically phase-flipped two-level system permanently coupled to a finite-capacity bath (cold bath) and an infinite heat dump (hot bath), is introduced and used to investigate the cooling of the cold bath towards the absolute zero (T=0). Remarkably, the temperature scaling of the cold-bath cooling rate reveals that it does not vanish as T->0 for certain realistic quantized baths, e.g. phonons in strongly disordered media (fractons) or quantized spin-waves in ferromagnets (magnons). This result challenges Nernst's third-law formulation known as the unattainability principle.

id: 1208.1029
title: A Note Concerning von Neumann Projector Measurement Pointer States, Weak Values, and Interference
authors: A. D. Parks, J. E. Gray
comments: 6 pages Submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1029
abstract: It is well known that the pointer state |{\Phi}> resulting from the von Neumann measurement of a projection operator A performed upon an ensemble of quantum systems in the preselected state |{\psi}> depends upon A|{\psi}>. Here it is shown that the pointer state |{\Psi}> obtained from such a measurement performed upon an ensemble that is also postselected depends upon the weak value of A - regardless of the measurement interaction strength. It is also found that, while the spatial distribution of |{\Psi}> exhibits interference, the idempotency of A prohibits interference in that of |{\Phi}>. This is explained in terms of welcher Weg information.

id: 1208.1068
title: Entanglement transformation between sets of bipartite pure quantum states using local operations
authors: H. F. Chau, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Chi-Kwong Li, Edward Poon, Nung-Sing Sze
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure, minor revision, to appear in J.Math.Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1068
abstract: Alice and Bob are given an unknown initial state chosen from a set of pure quantum states. Their task is to transform the initial state to a corresponding final pure state using local operations only. We prove necessary and sufficient conditions on the existence of such a transformation. We also provide efficient algorithms that can quickly rule out the possibility of transforming a set of initial states to a set of final states.

id: 1208.1076
title: Linear preservers and quantum information science
authors: Ajda Fosner, Zejun Huang, Chi-Kwong Li, Nung-Sing Sze
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1076
abstract: Let $m,n\ge 2$ be positive integers, $M_m$ the set of $m\times m$ complex matrices and $M_n$ the set of $n\times n$ complex matrices. Regard $M_{mn}$ as the tensor space $M_m\otimes M_n$. Suppose $|\cdot|$ is the Ky Fan $k$-norm with $1 \le k \le mn$, or the Schatten $p$-norm with $1 \le p \le \infty$ ($p\ne 2$) on $M_{mn}$. It is shown that a linear map $\phi: M_{mn} \rightarrow M_{mn}$ satisfying $$|A\otimes B| = |\phi(A\otimes B)|$$ for all $A \in M_m$ and $B \in M_n$ if and only if there are unitary $U, V \in M_{mn}$ such that $\phi$ has the form $A\otimes B \mapsto U(\varphi_1(A) \otimes \varphi_2(B))V$, where $\varphi_i(X)$ is either the identity map $X \mapsto X$ or the transposition map $X \mapsto X^t$. The results are extended to tensor space $M_{n_1} \otimes ... \otimes M_{n_m}$ of higher level. The connection of the problem to quantum information science is mentioned.

id: 1208.1091
title: Multi-partite $W-$type state is determined by its single particle reduced density matrices
authors: Nengkun Yu
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052310 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1091
abstract: In this short note, we show that multi-partite $W$-type state is up to local unitaries uniquely determined by its reduced density matrices.

id: 1208.1095
title: Classical and quantum quasi-free position dependent mass; P?schl-Teller and ordering-ambiguity
authors: S. Habib Mazharimousavi, Omar Mustafa
comments: 10 pages
journal: Physics Scripta 87 (2013) 055008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1095
abstract: We argue that the classical and quantum mechanical correspondence may play a basic role in the fixation of the ordering-ambiguity parameters. We use quasi-free position-dependent masses in the classical and quantum frameworks. The effective P\"oschl-Teller model is used as a manifested reference potential to elaborate on the reliability of the ordering-ambiguity parameters available in the literature.

id: 1208.1122
title: Optimal quantum query bounds for almost all Boolean functions
authors: Andris Ambainis, Arturs Backurs, Juris Smotrovs, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 8 pages LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1122
abstract: We show that almost all n-bit Boolean functions have bounded-error quantum query complexity at least n/2, up to lower-order terms. This improves over an earlier n/4 lower bound of Ambainis, and shows that van Dam's oracle interrogation is essentially optimal for almost all functions. Our proof uses the fact that the acceptance probability of a T-query algorithm can be written as the sum of squares of degree-T polynomials.

id: 1208.1210
title: Life thrives on abundance (quantum included)
authors: George Svetlichny
comments: LaTeX, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1210
abstract: I present a short and almost irrefutable arguments that life does use quantum mechanical correlations in an essential way. The very same argument applies, mutatis mutandis, in relation to any abundant resource, and observations bears this out.

id: 1208.1242
title: Higher time derivatives in effective equations of canonical quantum systems
authors: Martin Bojowald, Suddhasattwa Brahma, Elliot Nelson
comments: 26 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D 86 (2012) 105004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1242
abstract: Quantum-corrected equations of motion generically contain higher time derivatives, computed here in the setting of canonically quantized systems. The main example in which detailed derivations are presented is a general anharmonic oscillator, but conclusions can be drawn also for systems in quantum gravity and cosmology.

id: 1208.1256
title: Casimir expulsion of periodic configurations
authors: Evgeny G. Fateev
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1256
abstract: There is the possibility in principle that the noncompensated Casimir force exists in open nanosized metal cavities arranged in the form of periodic structures. It is found that when trapezoid cavities are strictly periodic all the Casimir expulsion forces are completely compensated. However, when the distance of the gap is formed between the cavities, in the periodic configuration a noncompensated expulsion force proportional to the number of cavities appears. There are such effective parameters of the periodic configuration (the angles of the opening of cavities, their lengths and the relationships between them) which lead to the appearance of a maximum of expulsion forces per unit of structure length.

id: 1208.1258
title: Two-photon transport through a waveguide coupling to a whispering gallery resonator containing an atom and photon-blockade effect
authors: T. Shi, Shanhui Fan
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1258
abstract: We investigate the two-photon transport through a waveguide side-coupling to a whispering-gallery-atom system. Using the Lehmann-Symanzik-Zimmermann (LSZ) reduction approach, we present the general formula for the two-photon processes including the two-photon scattering matrices, the wavefunctions and the second order correlation functions of the out-going photons. Based on the exact results of the second order correlation functions, we analyze the quantum statistics behaviors of the out-going photons for two different cases: (a) the ideal case without the inter-modal coupling in the whispering gallery resonator; (b) the case in the presence of the inter-modal coupling which leads to more complex nonlinear behavior. In the ideal case, we show that the system consists of two independent scattering pathways, a free pathway by a cavity mode without atomic excitation, and a "Jaynes-Cummings" pathway described by the Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian of a single-mode cavity coupling to an atom. The free pathway does not contribution to correlated two-photon processes. In the presence of intermodal mixing, the system no longer exhibit a free resonant pathway. Instead, both the single-photon and the two photon transport properties depend on the position of the atom. Thus, in the presence of intermodal mixing one can in fact tune the photon correlation properties by changing the position of the atom. Our formalism can be used to treat resonator and cavity dissipation as well.

id: 1208.1270
title: Properties of the Quantum Channel
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi, Sandor Imre
comments: Review paper: A tribute to the inventors of the various capacity formulas of quantum channels. 304 pages, 5 tables, 106 figures; added new section
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1270
abstract: Quantum information processing exploits the quantum nature of information. It offers fundamentally new solutions in the field of computer science and extends the possibilities to a level that cannot be imagined in classical communication systems. For quantum communication channels, many new capacity definitions were developed in comparison to classical counterparts. A quantum channel can be used to realize classical information transmission or to deliver quantum information, such as quantum entanglement. In this paper we overview the properties of the quantum communication channel, the various capacity measures and the fundamental differences between the classical and quantum channels.

id: 1208.1287
title: Entanglement of two superconducting qubits in a waveguide cavity via monochromatic two-photon excitation
authors: S. Poletto, Jay M. Gambetta, Seth T. Merkel, John A. Smolin, Jerry M. Chow, A. D. Corcoles, George A. Keefe, Mary B. Rothwell, J. R. Rozen, D. W. Abraham, Chad Rigetti, M. Steffen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. V2: add supplemental material about the Schrieffer-Wolff transformation
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 240505 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1287
abstract: We report a system where fixed interactions between non-computational levels make bright the otherwise forbidden two-photon 00 --> 11 transition. The system is formed by hand selection and assembly of two discrete component transmon-style superconducting qubits inside a rectangular microwave cavity. The application of a monochromatic drive tuned to this transition induces two-photon Rabi-like oscillations between the ground and doubly-excited states via the Bell basis. The system therefore allows all-microwave two-qubit universal control with the same techniques and hardware required for single qubit control. We report Ramsey-like and spin echo sequences with the generated Bell states, and measure a two-qubit gate fidelity of 90% (unconstrained) and 86% (maximum likelihood estimator).

id: 1208.1334
title: Analytic asymptotic performance of topological codes
authors: Austin G. Fowler
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 040301(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1334
abstract: Topological quantum error correction codes are extremely practical, typically requiring only a 2-D lattice of qubits with tunable nearest neighbor interactions yet tolerating high physical error rates p. It is computationally expensive to simulate the performance of such codes at low p, yet this is a regime we wish to study as low physical error rates lead to low qubit overhead. We present a very general method of analytically estimating the low p performance of the most promising class of topological codes. Our method can handle arbitrary periodic quantum circuits implementing the error detection associated with this class of codes, and arbitrary Pauli error models for each type of quantum gate. Our analytic expressions take only seconds to obtain, versus hundreds of hours to perform equivalent low p simulations.

id: 1208.1345
title: A proposal for realizing a 3-qubit controlled-phase gate with superconducting qubit systems coupled to a cavity
authors: Chui-Ping Yang
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, accepted by Progress of Theoretical Physics. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1207.7065, arXiv:1207.6768
journal: Progress of Theoretical Physics 128, 587 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1345
abstract: We present a way to realize a 3-qubit quantum controlled-phase gate with superconducting qubit systems coupled to a cavity. This proposal does not require adjustment of the qubit level spacings or identical qubit-cavity coupling constants. Moreover, since only a resonant interaction is applied, the gate can be performed fast, within $\sim $ 10 nanosecond. This proposal is quite general, which can be applied to various types of superconducting qubits, atoms trapped in a cavity, or quantum dots coupled to a resonator.

id: 1208.1358
title: Photonic realization of nonlocal memory effects and non-Markovian quantum probes
authors: Bi-Heng Liu, Dong-Yang Cao, Yun-Feng Huang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo, Elsi-Mari Laine, Heinz-Peter Breuer, Jyrki Piilo
comments: V2: minor modifications
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1781 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1358
abstract: The study of open quantum systems is important for fundamental issues of quantum physics as well as for technological applications such as quantum information processing. Recent developments in this field have increased our basic understanding on how non-Markovian effects influence the dynamics of an open quantum system, paving the way to exploit memory effects for various quantum control tasks. Most often, the environment of an open system is thought to act as a sink for the system information. However, here we demonstrate experimentally that a photonic open system can exploit the information initially held by its environment. Correlations in the environmental degrees of freedom induce nonlocal memory effects where the bipartite open system displays, counterintuitively, local Markovian and global non-Markovian character. Our results also provide novel methods to protect and distribute entanglement, and to experimentally quantify correlations in photonic environments.

id: 1208.1381
title: Probing the Dynamical Behaviour of Surface Dipoles Through Energy Absorption Interferometry
authors: Stafford Withington, Christopher N. Thomas
comments: 15 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1381
abstract: Spatial interferometry, based on the measurement of total absorbed power, can be used to determine the state of coherence of the electromagnetic field to which any energy-absorbing structure is sensitive. The measured coherence tensor can be diagonalized to give the amplitude, phase, polarization patterns, and responsivities of the individual electromagnetic modes through which the structure can absorb energy. Because the electromagnetic modes are intimately related to dynamical modes of the system, information about collective excitations can be found. We present simulations, based on the Discrete Dipole Approximation (DDA), showing how the dynamical modes of systems of surface dipoles can be recovered. Interactions are taken into consideration, leading to long-range coherent phenomena, which are revealed by the method. The use of DDA enables the interferometric response of a wide variety of objects to be modeled, from patterned photonic films to biological macromolecules.

id: 1208.1396
title: Damping of local Rabi oscillations in the presence of thermal motion
authors: Anat Daniel, Ruti Agou, Omer Amit, David Groswasser, Yonathan Japha, Ron Folman
comments: Found in Physical Review A (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1396
abstract: We investigate both theoretically and experimentally the effect of thermal motion of laser cooled atoms on the coherence of Rabi oscillations induced by an inhomogeneous driving field. The experimental results are in excellent agreement with the derived analytical expressions. For freely falling atoms with negligible collisions, as those used in our experiment, we find that the amplitude of the Rabi oscillations decays with time $t$ as $\exp[-(t/\tau)^4]$, where the coherence time $\tau$ drops with increasing temperature and field gradient. We discuss the consequences of these results regarding the fidelity of Rabi rotations of atomic qubits. We also show that the process is equivalent to the loss of coherence of atoms undergoing a Ramsey sequence in the presence of static magnetic field gradients - a common situation in many applications. In addition, our results are relevant for determining the resolution when utilizing atoms as field probes. Using numerical calculations, our model can be easily extended to situations in which the atoms are confined by a potential or to situations where collisions are important.

id: 1208.1400
title: Second-order asymptotics for quantum hypothesis testing
authors: Ke Li
comments: Published in at this http URL the Annals of Statistics (this http URL) by the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (this http URL)
journal: Annals of Statistics 2014, Vol. 42, No. 1, 171-189
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1400
abstract: In the asymptotic theory of quantum hypothesis testing, the minimal error probability of the first kind jumps sharply from zero to one when the error exponent of the second kind passes by the point of the relative entropy of the two states in an increasing way. This is well known as the direct part and strong converse of quantum Stein's lemma. Here we look into the behavior of this sudden change and have make it clear how the error of first kind grows smoothly according to a lower order of the error exponent of the second kind, and hence we obtain the second-order asymptotics for quantum hypothesis testing. This actually implies quantum Stein's lemma as a special case. Meanwhile, our analysis also yields tight bounds for the case of finite sample size. These results have potential applications in quantum information theory. Our method is elementary, based on basic linear algebra and probability theory. It deals with the achievability part and the optimality part in a unified fashion.

id: 1208.1415
title: Towards quantum state tomography of a single polariton state of an atomic ensemble
authors: S. L. Christensen, J. B. B¨¦guin, H. L. S?rensen, E. Bookjans, D. Oblak, J. H. M¨¹ller, J. Appel, E. S. Polzik
comments: 
journal: 2013 New J. Phys. 15 015002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1415
abstract: We present a proposal and a feasibility study for the creation and quantum state tomography of a single polariton state of an atomic ensemble. The collective non-classical and non-Gaussian state of the ensemble is generated by detection of a single forward scattered photon. The state is subsequently characterized by atomic state tomography performed using strong dispersive light-atoms interaction followed by a homodyne measurement on the transmitted light. The proposal is backed by preliminary experimental results showing projection noise limited sensitivity and a simulation demonstrating the feasibility of the proposed method for detection of a non-classical and non-Gaussian state of the mesoscopic atomic ensemble. This work represents the first attempt of hybrid discrete-continuous variable quantum state processing with atomic ensembles.

id: 1208.1441
title: How general are time-local master equations?
authors: Daniel Maldonado-Mundo, Patrik Ohberg, Brendon W. Lovett, Erika Andersson
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042107 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1441
abstract: Time-local master equations are more generally applicable than is often recognised, but at first sight it would seem that they can only safely be used in time intervals where the time evolution is invertible. Using the Jaynes-Cummings model, we here construct an explicit example where two different Hamiltonians, corresponding to two different non-invertible and non-Markovian time evolutions, will lead to arbitrarily similar time-local master equations. This illustrates how the time-local master equation on its own in this case does not uniquely determine the time evolution. The example is nevertheless artificial in the sense that a rapid change in (at least) one of the Hamiltonians is needed. The change must also occur at a very specific instance in time. If a Hamiltonian is known not to have such very specific behaviour, but is "physically well-behaved", then one may conjecture that a time-local master equation also determines the time evolution when it is not invertible.

id: 1208.1458
title: Security Details for Bit Commitment by Transmitting Measurement Outcomes
authors: Sarah Croke, Adrian Kent
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1108.2879
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052309 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1458
abstract: We spell out details of a simple argument for a security bound for the secure relativistic quantum bit commitment protocol of Ref. [1].

id: 1208.1478
title: A Hierarchy of Information Quantities for Finite Block Length Analysis of Quantum Tasks
authors: Marco Tomamichel, Masahito Hayashi
comments: See also arXiv:1208.1400, which independently derives part of our result: the second order asymptotics for binary hypothesis testing
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 59 (11), p. 7693-7710 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1478
abstract: We consider two fundamental tasks in quantum information theory, data compression with quantum side information as well as randomness extraction against quantum side information. We characterize these tasks for general sources using so-called one-shot entropies. We show that these characterizations - in contrast to earlier results - enable us to derive tight second order asymptotics for these tasks in the i.i.d. limit. More generally, our derivation establishes a hierarchy of information quantities that can be used to investigate information theoretic tasks in the quantum domain: The one-shot entropies most accurately describe an operational quantity, yet they tend to be difficult to calculate for large systems. We show that they asymptotically agree up to logarithmic terms with entropies related to the quantum and classical information spectrum, which are easier to calculate in the i.i.d. limit. Our techniques also naturally yields bounds on operational quantities for finite block lengths.

id: 1208.1495
title: Verification for measurement-only blind quantum computing
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 060302(R) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1495
abstract: Blind quantum computing is a new secure quantum computing protocol where a client who does not have any sophisticated quantum technlogy can delegate her quantum computing to a server without leaking any privacy. It is known that a client who has only a measurement device can perform blind quantum computing [T. Morimae and K. Fujii, Phys. Rev. A {\bf87}, 050301(R) (2013)]. It has been an open problem whether the protocol can enjoy the verification, i.e., the ability of client to check the correctness of the computing. In this paper, we propose a protocol of verification for the measurement-only blind quantum computing.

id: 1208.1503
title: Some Quantum Information Inequalities from a Quantum Bayesian Networks Perspective
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 29 pages (files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1503
abstract: This is primarily a pedagogical paper. The paper re-visits some well-known quantum information theory inequalities. It does this from a quantum Bayesian networks perspective. The paper illustrates some of the benefits of using quantum Bayesian networks to discuss quantum SIT (Shannon Information Theory).

id: 1208.1534
title: Enhancing multiphoton rates with quantum memories
authors: J. Nunn, N. K. Langford, W. S. Kolthammer, T. F. M. Champion, M. R. Sprague, P. S. Michelberger, X.-M. Jin, D. G. England, I. A. Walmsley
comments: Just over 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110 13 133601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1534
abstract: Single photons are a vital resource for optical quantum information processing. Efficient and deterministic single photon sources do not yet exist, however. To date, experimental demonstrations of quantum processing primitives have been implemented using non-deterministic sources combined with heralding and/or postselection. Unfortunately, even for eight photons, the data rates are already so low as to make most experiments impracticable. It is well known that quantum memories, capable of storing photons until they are needed, are a potential solution to this `scaling catastrophe'. Here, we analyze in detail the benefits of quantum memories for producing multiphoton states, showing how the production rates can be enhanced by many orders of magnitude. We identify the quantity $\eta B$ as the most important figure of merit in this connection, where $\eta$ and $B$ are the efficiency and time-bandwidth product of the memories, respectively.

id: 1208.1546
title: Indivisible quantum evolution of a driven open spin-$S$ system
authors: Xiang Hao, Xuefen Xu, Xiaoqun Wang
comments: 11 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1546
abstract: Using a recently proposed measure for divisibility of a dynamical map, we study the non-Markovian character of a quantum evolution of a driven spin-$S$ system weakly coupled to a bosonic bath. The complete tomographic knowledge about the dynamics of the open system is obtained by the time-convolutionless master equation in the secular approximation. The derived equation can be applied to a wide range of spin-boson models with the Hermitian or non-Hermitian coupling operator in the system-environment interaction Hamiltonian. Besides the influence of the environmental spectral densities, the tunneling energy of the system Hamiltonian can affect the measure of quantum non-Markovianity. It is found that the non-Markovian feature of a dynamical map of a high-dimension spin system is noticeable in contrast to that of a low-dimension spin system.

id: 1208.1549
title: Quantum decoherence of spin states in an electric-field controllable single molecular magnet
authors: Xiang Hao, Chen Liu, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1549
abstract: The time evolution of low energy spin states of a single molecular magnet in a local electric field is investigated. The decoherence of the driven single molecular magnet weakly coupled to a thermal bosonic environment is analyzed by the second-order time-convolutionless non-Markovian master equation. If the characteristic time of the system is much smaller than the correlation time of the environment, the analytical expression of the reduced density matrix of the system is obtained. The non-Markovian dynamics of the spin states at low temperatures is induced by the memory effects in the decay rates. The non-Markovian oscillation of the Bloch vector is presented. The quantum decoherence can be effectively restrained with the help of the reasonable manipulation of the environment spectral density function and local electric field. The influence of the dissipation on the pointer states are investigated by the von Neumann entropy. The pointer states can be selected by the environment.

id: 1208.1550
title: Enhanced quantum teleportation in non-Markovian environments
authors: Xiang Hao, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1550
abstract: The protocol of the teleportation of an arbitrary unknown one-qubit state is investigated when the quantum channel is subject to the decoherence from the non-Markovian environments with the memory effects. The quality of the teleportation measured by the average fidelity and minimal fidelity can be enhanced in the non-Markovian channel. The memory effects give rise to the revival of the fidelity which is better than that obtained by the Markovian channel.

id: 1208.1552
title: Dynamics of quantum entanglement in the reservoir with memory effects
authors: Xiang Hao, Jinqiao Sha, Jian Sun, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1552
abstract: The non-Markovian dynamics of quantum entanglement is studied by the Shabani-Lidar master equation when one of entangled quantum systems is coupled to a local reservoir with memory effects. The completely positive reduced dynamical map can be constructed in the Kraus representation. Quantum entanglement decays more slowly in the non-Markovian environment. The decoherence time for quantum entanglement can be markedly increased by the change of the memory kernel. It is found out that the entanglement sudden death between quantum systems and entanglement sudden birth between the system and reservoir occur at different instants.

id: 1208.1554
title: Dynamics of quantum discord in asymmetric and local non-Markovian environments
authors: Xiang Hao, Tao Pan, Jinqiao Sha
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1554
abstract: The non-Markovian decoherence of quantum and classical correlations is analytically obtained when two qubits are asymmetrically subjected to the bit flip channel and phase flip channel. For one class of initial mixed states, quantum correlations quantified by quantum discord decay synchronously with classical correlations. The discovery that the decaying rates of quantum and classical correlations suddenly change at the characteristic time is physically interpreted by the distance from quantum state to the closest classical states. In a large time interval, quantum correlations are greater than classical correlations. The quantum and classical correlations can be preserved over a longer period of time via the kernel characterizing the environment memory effects.

id: 1208.1555
title: Decoherence of quantum discord in an asymmetric-anisotropy spin system
authors: Xiang Hao, Chunlan Ma, Jinqiao Sha
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1555
abstract: The decoherence of quantum correlation is investigated in the Heisenberg spin system with the asymmetric anisotropic interactions. The quantum entanglement and discord are used to quantify the quantumness of the correlations. By the analytical and numerical methods, we find that quantum discord decays asymptotically in time under the effects of the independent local Markovian reservoirs. This is markedly different from the sudden change of the entanglement. Before the disappearance of the entanglement, the dynamic behaviour of quantum discord is very similar to that of the entanglement. It is also shown that the discord declines rapidly for the interacting spin system compared with the case of noninteracting qubits. At an arbitrary finite temperature, the nonzero thermal discord can be enhanced by the asymmetric anisotropic interactions which induce quantum fluctuations.

id: 1208.1557
title: Quantum communication in the spin chain with multiplespin exchange interaction
authors: Xiang Hao, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 11 pages, 3 figues
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1557
abstract: The transmission of quantum states in the anisotropic Heisenberg XXZ chain model with three-spin exchange interaction is studied. The average fidelity is used to evaluate the state transfer. It is found out that quantum communication can be enhanced by the anisotropic coupling and multiple spin interaction. Such spin model can reduce the time required for the perfect state transmission where the fidelity is unity. The maximally entangled Bell states can be generated and separated from the whole quantum systems.

id: 1208.1561
title: Quantum measurement and the first law of thermodynamics: the energy cost of measurement is the work value of the acquired information
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, revtex4-1. v2: added a reference
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 040106(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1561
abstract: The energy cost of measurement is an interesting fundamental question, and may have profound implications for quantum technologies. In the context of Maxwell's demon, it is often stated that measurement has no minimum energy cost, while information has a work value, even though these statements can appear contradictory. However, as we elucidate, these statements do no refer to the cost paid by the measuring device. Here we show that it is only when a measuring device has access to a zero temperature reservoir - that is, never - that the measurement requires no energy. All real measuring devices pay the cost that a heat engine pays to obtain the work value of the information they acquire.

id: 1208.1622
title: Spin coherence lifetime extension in Tm$^{3+}$:YAG through dynamical decoupling
authors: M. F. Pascual-Winter, R.-C. Tongning, T. Chaneli¨¨re, J.-L. Le Gou?t
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86 (2012) 184301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1622
abstract: We report on spin coherence lifetime extension on Tm$^{3+}$:YAG obtained through dynamically decoupling the thulium spins from their magnetic environment. The coherence lifetime reached with a Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill sequence revealed a 450-fold extension [$\sim$$(230 \pm 30)$ ms] with respect to previously measured values. Comparison to a simple theoretical model allowed us to estimate the correlation time of the fluctuations of the ground level transition frequency to $(172 \pm 30)$ $\mu$s at 1.7 K. For attaining efficient decoupling sequences, we developed a strategy inspired by the \emph{zero-first-order Zeeman} effect to minimize the large inhomogeneous broadening of the ground level spin transition.

id: 1208.1630
title: Linear Optics Simulation of Non-Markovian Quantum Dynamics
authors: Andrea Chiuri, Chiara Greganti, Laura Mazzola, Mauro Paternostro, Paolo Mataloni
comments: 4+2 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Scientific Reports 2, 968 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1630
abstract: The simulation of quantum processes is a key goal for the grand programme aiming at grounding quantum technologies as the way to explore complex phenomena that are inaccessible through standard, classical calculators. Some interesting steps have been performed in this direction and this scenario has recently been extended to open quantum evolutions, marking the possibility to investigate important features of the way a quantum system interacts with its environment. Here we demonstrate experimentally the (non-)Markovianity of a process where system and environment are coupled through a simulated transverse Ising model. By engineering the evolution in a fully controlled photonic quantum simulator, we assess and demonstrate the role that system-environment correlations have in the emergence of memory effects.

id: 1208.1638
title: Cavity-enhanced narrow bandwidth photon pairs generation at the telecom wavelength with a triple resonance configuration
authors: Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Dong-Sheng Ding, Yan Li, Fu-Yuan Wang, Bao-Seng Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1638
abstract: In this paper, we present a narrow bandwidth source at the telecom wavelength based on type II PPKTP crystal inside an optical cavity. Simultaneous resonances of the pump and the two down-converted fields are achieved by special design of the cavity. This is a triple resonances optical parametric oscillator (OPO) far below threshold, which generates photon pairs at around 1560 nm with a bandwidth of 8 MHz. A coherence time of 27.7 ns is estimate by a time correlation measurement, and the estimated photon pairs generating rate is 134 s-1MHz-1mW-1. As entangled photon pairs in the telecom regime is suitable for long distance transmission and manipulation, this source is desirable for the demands of quantum communication.

id: 1208.1655
title: Quantum-memory-assisted entropic uncertainty principle, teleportation and entanglement witness in structured reservoirs
authors: Ming-Liang Hu, Heng Fan
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, the final version as that published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032338 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1655
abstract: We relate the principle of quantum-memory-assisted entropic uncertainty to quantum teleportation and show geometrically that any two-qubit state which lowers the upper bound of this uncertainty relation is useful for teleportation. We also explore the efficiency of this entropic uncertainty principle on witnessing entanglement in a general class of bosonic structured reservoirs. The entanglement regions witnessed by different estimates are determined, which may have no relation with the explicit form of the spectral density of the reservoir for certain special chosen sets of the initial states.

id: 1208.1689
title: Phase-locked indistinguishable photons with synthesized waveforms from a solid-state source
authors: Clemens Matthiesen, Martin Geller, Carsten H. H. Schulte, Claire Le Gall, Jack Hansom, Zhengyong Li, Maxime Hugues, Edmund Clarke, Mete Atat¨¹re
comments: Additional data and analysis in PDF format is available for download at the publications section of our website: this http URL
journal: Nature Communications, 4:1600 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1689
abstract: Resonance fluorescence in the Heitler regime provides access to single photons with coherence well beyond the Fourier transform limit of the transition, and holds the promise to circumvent environment-induced dephasing common to all solid-state systems. Here we demonstrate that the coherently generated single photons from a single self-assembled InAs quantum dot display mutual coherence with the excitation laser on a timescale exceeding 3 seconds. Exploiting this degree of mutual coherence we synthesize near-arbitrary coherent photon waveforms by shaping the excitation laser field. In contrast to post-emission filtering, our technique avoids both photon loss and degradation of the single photon nature for all synthesized waveforms. By engineering pulsed waveforms of single photons, we further demonstrate that separate photons generated coherently by the same laser field are fundamentally indistinguishable, lending themselves to creation of distant entanglement through quantum interference.

id: 1208.1745
title: Lower Bound of Multipartite Concurrence Based on Sub-quantum State Decomposition
authors: Xue-Na Zhu, Ming-Jing Zhao, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022307 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1745
abstract: We study the entanglement of tripartite quantum states and provide analytical lower bound of concurrence in terms of the concurrence of sub-states. The lower bound may improve all the existing lower bounds of concurrence. The approach is generalized to arbitrary dimensional multipartite systems.

id: 1208.1757
title: Comment on "Casimir Force and In Situ Surface Potential Measurements on Nanomembranes"
authors: M. Bordag, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 1 page, 1 figure; minor modifications are made connected with an Erratum published by the authors of the commented Letter. To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. v.109, 199701 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1757
abstract: Recently D. Garcia-Sanches, K. Y. Fong, H. Bhaskaran, S. Lamoreaux, and H. X. Tang [Phys. Rev. Lett. v.109, 027202 (2012)] claimed that the frequency shift of an oscillator under the influence of the residual electric and Casimir forces is best described by the Drude model approach to the Casimir force and excludes the plasma model approach. We demonstrate that calculations in support of this claim are performed incorrectly and that the measured data are in strong disagreement with both theoretical approaches to the Casimir force, thus, suggesting the presence of an unaccounted systematic error in the data.

id: 1208.1800
title: Quantum walk as a generalized measuring device
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Antoni Wojcik
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 200404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1800
abstract: We show that a one-dimensional discrete time quantum walk can be used to implement a generalized measurement in terms of positive operator value measure (POVM) on a single qubit. More precisely, we show that for a single qubit any set of rank 1 and rank 2 POVM elements can be generated by a properly engineered quantum walk. In such a scenario the measurement of particle at position x=i corresponds to a measurement of a POVM element E_i on a qubit. We explicitly construct quantum walks implementing unambiguous state discrimination and SIC-POVM.

id: 1208.1815
title: Displacement receiver for phase-shift-keyed coherent states
authors: Shuro Izumi, Masahiro Takeoka, Mikio Fujiwara, Nicola Dalla Pozza, Antonio Assalini, Kazuhiro Ema, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042328 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1815
abstract: Quantum receiver is an important tool for overcoming the standard quantum limit (SQL) of discrimination errors in optical communication. We theoretically study the quantum receivers for discriminating ternary and quaternary phase shift keyed coherent states in terms of average error rate and mutual information. Our receiver consists of on/off-type photon detectors and displacement operations w/o electrical feedforward operations. We show that for the ternary signals, the receiver shows a reasonable gain from the SQL even without feedforward. This scheme is realizable with the currently available technology. For the quaternary signals feedforward operation is crucial to overcome the SQL with imperfect devices. We also analytically examine the asymptotic limit of the performance of the proposed receiver with respect to the number of feedforward steps.

id: 1208.1861
title: Quantum control of spin-correlations in ultracold lattice gases
authors: P. Hauke, R. J. Sewell, M. W. Mitchell, M. Lewenstein
comments: 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 021601(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1861
abstract: We demonstrate that it is possible to prepare a lattice gas of ultracold atoms with a desired non-classical spin-correlation function using atom-light interaction of the kind routinely employed in quantum spin polarization spectroscopy. Our method is based on quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement and feedback, and allows in particular to create on demand exponentially or algebraically decaying correlations, as well as a certain degree of multi-partite entanglement.

id: 1208.1865
title: Quantum orbital angular momentum of elliptically-symmetric light
authors: William N. Plick, Mario Krenn, Robert Fickler, Sven Ramelow, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 9 Pages, 4 Figures, Comments Welcome
journal: Physical Review A 87 (3), 033806 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1865
abstract: We present a quantum mechanical analysis of the orbital angular momentum of a class of recently discovered elliptically-symmetric stable light fields --- the so-called Ince-Gauss modes. We study, in a fully quantum formalism, how the orbital angular momentum of these beams varies with their ellipticity and discover several compelling features, including: non-monotonic behavior, stable beams with real continuous (non-integer) orbital angular momenta, and orthogonal modes with the same orbital angular momenta. We explore, and explain in detail, the reasons for this behavior. These features may have application to quantum key distribution, atom trapping, and quantum informatics in general --- as the ellipticity opens up a new way of navigating the photonic Hilbert space.

id: 1208.1891
title: On the rotating wave approximation in the adiabatic limit
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. T153, 014040 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1891
abstract: I revisit a longstanding question in quantum optics; When is the rotating wave approximation justified? In terms of the Jaynes-Cummings and Rabi models I demonstrate that the approximation in general breaks down in the adiabatic limit regardless of system parameters. This is explicitly shown by comparing Berry phases of the two models, where it is found that this geometrical phase is strictly zero in the Rabi model contrary to the non-trivial Berry phase of the Jaynes-Cummings model. The source of this surprising result is traced back to different topologies in the two models.

id: 1208.1946
title: First-order sidebands in circuit QED using qubit frequency modulation
authors: F¨¦lix Beaudoin, Marcus P. da Silva, Zachary Dutton, Alexandre Blais
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 022305 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1946
abstract: Sideband transitions have been shown to generate controllable interaction between superconducting qubits and microwave resonators. Up to now, these transitions have been implemented with voltage drives on the qubit or the resonator, with the significant disadvantage that such implementations only lead to second-order sideband transitions. Here we propose an approach to achieve first-order sideband transitions by relying on controlled oscillations of the qubit frequency using a flux-bias line. Not only can first-order transitions be significantly faster, but the same technique can be employed to implement other tunable qubit-resonator and qubit-qubit interactions. We discuss in detail how such first-order sideband transitions can be used to implement a high fidelity controlled-NOT operation between two transmons coupled to the same resonator.

id: 1208.1965
title: Maximum quantum nonlocality between systems that never interacted
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377 (2012) 64
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1965
abstract: We show that there is a stronger form of bipartite quantum nonlocality in which systems that never interacted are as nonlocal as allowed by no-signaling. For this purpose, we first show that nonlocal boxes, theoretical objects that violate a bipartite Bell inequality as much as the no-signaling principle allows and which are physically impossible for most scenarios, are feasible if the two parties have 3 measurements with 4 outputs. Then we show that, in this case, entanglement swapping allows us to prepare mixtures of nonlocal boxes using systems that never interacted.

id: 1208.1987
title: Shor's algorithm without partial fractions
authors: Nolan R. Wallach
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to an error relating "m" and "x"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1987
abstract: The purpose of this note was to give a proof that Shor's algorithm for period search is polynomial using only the standard $2^{n}$ quantum Fourier thansform and some simple trigonometry. There is an error that was pointed out to the author by Pavel Wocjan.

id: 1208.1995
title: Unconditional security of coherent-state-based differential phase shift quantum key distribution protocol with block-wise phase randomization
authors: Kiyoshi Tamaki, Masato Koashi, Go Kato
comments: 15 pages and 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1995
abstract: We prove the unconditional security of coherent-state-based differential phase shift quantum key distribution protocol (DPSQKD) with block-wise phase randomization. Our proof is based on the conversion of DPSQKD to an equivalent entanglement-distillation protocol where the estimated phase error rate determines the amount of the privacy amplification. The generated final key has a contribution from events where the sender emits two or more photons, indicating the robustness of DPSQKD against photon-number-splitting attacks.

id: 1208.2024
title: Toward irreversibility with a finite bath of oscillators
authors: Artur Nogueira de S?o Jos¨¦, Patr¨ªcia Mascarenhas Dias, Arthur Rodrigo Bosco de Magalh?es, Jos¨¦ Geraldo Peixoto de Faria
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2024
abstract: We investigate the routes by which a bath composed of a finite number of oscillators at zero temperature approaches the induction of dissipation when it nears the usual limit of dense spectrum spread in an infinite interval. It is shown that, when this limit is taken, different distributions of environment frequencies can lead to the same irreversible evolution. However, when we move away from it, the dynamics departs from irreversibility in qualitatively different manners.

id: 1208.2046
title: Contextual Entropy and Reconstruction of Quantum States
authors: Carmen Maria Constantin, Andreas Doering
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2046
abstract: We introduce a new notion of entropy for quantum states, called contextual entropy, and show how it unifies Shannon and von Neumann entropy. The main result is that from the knowledge of the contextual entropy of a quantum state of a finite-dimensional system, one can reconstruct the quantum state, i.e., the density matrix, if the Hilbert space is of dimension 3 or greater. We present an explicit algorithm for this state reconstruction and relate our result to Gleason's theorem.

id: 1208.2082
title: Massless Dirac particle in a stochastic magnetic field: A solvable quantum walk approximation
authors: A. J. Bracken, D. Ellinas, I. Smyrnakis
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2082
abstract: A massless Dirac particle is considered, moving along the x-axis while Pauli-coupled by its anomalous magnetic moment to a piecewise constant magnetic field along the same axis, with stochastically varying sign. The motion is approximated as a quantum walk with unitary noise, for which the evolution can be found exactly. Initially ballistic, the motion approaches a classical diffusion on a time-scale determined by the speed of light, the size of the magnetic moment, the strength of the field and the time interval between changes in its direction. It is suggested that a process of this type could occur in the Sun's corona, significantly affecting the solar fluxes of one or more neutrino types.

id: 1208.2106
title: Incompleteness and Limit of Quantum Key Distribution Theory
authors: Osamu Hirota
comments: Add the response to the paper as appendix. This paper is an extended version of Proceedings of SPIE conference on Quantum Communication and Quantum Imaging 2012, and a part of the presentation in The Ministry of Defense of Japan at Oct. 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2106
abstract: It is claimed in the many papers that a trace distance ($d$) guarantees the universal composition security in quantum key distribution (QKD). In this introduction paper, at first, it is explicitly explained what is the main misconception in the claim of the unconditional security for QKD theory. In general terms, the cause of the misunderstanding on the security claim is the Lemma in the paper of Renner. It suggests that the generation of the perfect random key is assured by the probability $ (1-d)$, and its failure probability is $d$. Thus, it concludes that the generated key provides the perfect random key sequence when the protocol suceeds. So the QKD provides perfect secrecy to the one time pad. This is the reason for the composition claim. However, the quantity of the trace distance (or variational distance) is not the probability for such an event. If $d $ is not small enough, always the generated key sequence is not uniform. Now one needs the reconstruction of the evaluation of the trace distance if one wants to use it. One should first go back to the indistinguishability theory in the computational complexity based, and to clarify the meaning of the value of the variational distance. In addition, the same analysis for the information theoretic case is necessary. The recent serial papers by H.P.Yuen have given the answer on such questions. In this paper, we show more concise description of Yuen's theory, and clarify that the recent upper bound theories for the trace distance by Tomamichel et al and Hayashi et al are constructed based on the reasoning of Renner and it is unsuitable as the analysis for information theoretic security. Finally, we introduce a macroscopic quantum communication with different principle to replace Q-bit QKD.

id: 1208.2109
title: Position-dependent mass harmonic oscillator: classical-quantum mechanical correspondence and ordering-ambiguity
authors: Omar Mustafa
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2109
abstract: We recycle Cruz et al.'s (Phys. Lett. A 369 (2007) 400) work on the classical and quantum position-dependent mass (PDM) oscillators. To elaborate on the ordering ambiguity, we properly amend some of the results reported in their work and discuss the classical and quantum mechanical correspondence for the PDM harmonic oscillators. We use a point canonical transformation and show that one unique quantum PDM oscillator Hamiltonian (consequently, one unique ordering-ambiguity parametric set j=l=-1/4 and k=-1/2) is obtained. To show that such a parametric set is not just a manifestation of the quantum PDM oscillator Hamiltonian, we consider the classical and quantum mechanical correspondence for quasi-free PDM particles moving under the influence of their own PDM force fields.

id: 1208.2111
title: Procedures for realizing an approximate universal NOT gate
authors: Jeongho Bang, Seung-Woo Lee, Hyunseok Jeong, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062317 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2111
abstract: We consider procedures to realize an approximate universal NOT gate in terms of average fidelity and fidelity deviation. The average fidelity indicates the optimality of operation on average, while the fidelity deviation does the universality of operation. We show that one-qubit operations have a sharp trade-off relation between average fidelity and fidelity deviation, and two-qubit operations show a looser trade-off relation. The genuine universality holds for operations of more than two qubits, and those of even more qubits are beneficial to compensating imperfection of control. In addition, we take into account operational noises which contaminate quantum operation in realistic circumstances. We show that the operation recovers from the contamination by a feedback procedure of differential evolution. Our feedback scheme is also applicable to finding an optimal and universal operation of NOT.

id: 1208.2118
title: Dissecting the qutrit
authors: Gniewomir Sarbicki, Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 035306 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2118
abstract: To visualize a higher dimensional object it is convenient to consider its two-dimensional cross-sections. The set of quantum states for a three level system has eight dimensions. We supplement a recent paper by Goyal et al by considering the set of all possible two-dimensional cross-sections of the qutrit. Each such cross-section is bounded by a plane cubic curve.

id: 1208.2131
title: Decoherence-assisted transport and quantum criticalities
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi, Thomas Busch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052112 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2131
abstract: We study the dynamics of a two-level quantum system interacting with an external environment that takes the form of an XY spin chain in the presence of an external magnetic field. While the presence of the bath itself can enhance the transition probability from the lower level to the upper level of the system, we show that this noise-assisted phenomenon is sensitive to a change of the quantum phase of the environment. The derivative of the transition probability displays a maximum in correspondence with the critical value of the applied field both in the case of isotropic and anisotropic chains.

id: 1208.2162
title: Quantum-correlation breaking channels, broadcasting scenarios, and finite Markov chains
authors: J. K. Korbicz, P. Horodecki, R. Horodecki
comments: Broadcasting part generalized, Ergodic Theorem added, two figures added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042319 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2162
abstract: One of the classical results concerning quantum channels is the characterization of entanglement-breaking channels [M. Horodecki et al., Rev. Math. Phys 15, 629 (2003)]. We address the question whether there exists a similar characterization on the level of quantum correlations which may go beyond entanglement. The answer is fully affirmative in the case of breaking quantum correlations down to the, so called, CQ (Classical-Quantum) type, and the corresponding channels turn out to be measurement maps, while it is no longer true in the CC (Classical-Classical) case. The study of the latter reveals an unexpected link between quantum state and local correlation broadcasting and finite Markov chains. We present a possibility of broadcasting via non von Neumann measurements, which relies on the Perron-Frobenius Theorem. Surprisingly, this is not the typical generalized C-NOT gate scenario, appearing naturally in this context.

id: 1208.2172
title: Rigorous derivation of the triple scattering signal from single-atom responses
authors: Vyacheslav Shatokhin, Thomas Wellens
comments: 23 pages, 23 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043808 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2172
abstract: We study coherent backscattering of intense laser light from three immobile two-level atoms using the master equation approach. The master equation is solved analytically, and the triple scattering spectrum is expressed in quadratures. We show that this solution can be obtained via a self-consistent combination of single-atom spectral responses, and is equivalent to the solution following from the diagrammatic pump-probe approach. We deduce the general expressions for single-atom building blocks which can be used in simulations of multiple inelastic scattering of laser light in the bulk atomic medium.

id: 1208.2201
title: Quantum repeaters and quantum key distribution: analysis of secret key rates
authors: Silvestre Abruzzo, Sylvia Bratzik, Nadja K. Bernardes, Hermann Kampermann, Peter van Loock, Dagmar Bru?
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052315 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2201
abstract: We analyze various prominent quantum repeater protocols in the context of long-distance quantum key distribution. These protocols are the original quantum repeater proposal by Briegel, D\"ur, Cirac and Zoller, the so-called hybrid quantum repeater using optical coherent states dispersively interacting with atomic spin qubits, and the Duan-Lukin-Cirac-Zoller-type repeater using atomic ensembles together with linear optics and, in its most recent extension, heralded qubit amplifiers. For our analysis, we investigate the most important experimental parameters of every repeater component and find their minimally required values for obtaining a nonzero secret key. Additionally, we examine in detail the impact of device imperfections on the final secret key rate and on the optimal number of rounds of distillation when the entangled states are purified right after their initial distribution.

id: 1208.2204
title: Protecting conditional quantum gates by robust dynamical decoupling
authors: Ch. Piltz, B. Scharfenberger, A. Khromova, A. F. Var¨®n, Ch. Wunderlich
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. Replaced with published version (wording changed in some places, added references)
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 200501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2204
abstract: Dephasing -- phase randomization of a quantum superposition state -- is a major obstacle for the realization of high fidelity quantum logic operations. Here, we implement a two-qubit Controlled-NOT gate using dynamical decoupling (DD), despite the gate time being more than one order of magnitude longer than the intrinsic coherence time of the system. For realizing this universal conditional quantum gate, we have devised a concatenated DD sequence that ensures robustness against imperfections of DD pulses that otherwise may destroy quantum information or interfere with gate dynamics. We compare its performance with three other types of DD sequences. These experiments are carried out using a well-controlled prototype quantum system -- trapped atomic ions coupled by an effective spin-spin interaction. The scheme for protecting conditional quantum gates demonstrated here is applicable to other physical systems, such as nitrogen vacancy centers, solid state nuclear magnetic resonance, and circuit quantum electrodynamics.

id: 1208.2246
title: Private Quantum Subsystems
authors: Tomas Jochym-O'Connor, David W. Kribs, Raymond Laflamme, Sarah Plosker
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 030502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2246
abstract: We investigate the most general notion of a private quantum code, which involves the encoding of qubits into quantum subsystems and subspaces. We contribute to the structure theory for private quantum codes by deriving testable conditions for private quantum subsystems in terms of Kraus operators for channels; establishing an analogue of the Knill-Laflamme conditions in this setting. For a large class of naturally arising quantum channels, we show that private subsystems can exist even in the absence of private subspaces. In doing so, we also discover the first examples of private subsystems that are not complemented by operator quantum error correcting codes; implying that the complementarity of private codes and quantum error correcting codes fails for the general notion of private quantum subsystem.

id: 1208.2252
title: Towards All Optical, Universal Quantum Computation using Trapped Electron Spins and Cavity Polariton Resonance
authors: Shruti Puri, Na Young Kim, Eisuke Abe, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2252
abstract: We propose an all optical quantum computation scheme, with trapped electron spin qubits, using their Coulomb exchange interaction with optically excited microcavity exciton-polaritons. This paper describes a single qubit rotation, which together with two-qubit controlled-z gate presented in PRB 85, 241403(R) (2012), form a set of universal logic gates. The errors due to finite cavity lifetime and incorrect orientation of the rotation axis are minimized by optimizing pump pulse parameters. With projective homodyne phase measurement and initialization, our scheme is a promising candidate for the physical realization of a universal quantum computer.

id: 1208.2256
title: Demon-like Algorithmic Quantum Cooling and its Realization with Quantum Optics
authors: Jin-Shi Xu, Man-Hong Yung, Xiao-Ye Xu, Sergio Boixo, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Chuan-Feng Li, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, plus supplementarity materials
journal: Nature Photonics 8, 113-118 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2256
abstract: The simulation of low-temperature properties of many-body systems remains one of the major challenges in theoretical and experimental quantum information science. We present, and demonstrate experimentally, a universal cooling method which is applicable to any physical system that can be simulated by a quantum computer. This method allows us to distill and eliminate hot components of quantum states, i.e., a quantum Maxwell's demon. The experimental implementation is realized with a quantum-optical network, and the results are in full agreement with theoretical predictions (with fidelity higher than 0.978). These results open a new path for simulating low-temperature properties of physical and chemical systems that are intractable with classical methods.

id: 1208.2259
title: Fractal Weyl laws for amplified states in PT-symmetric resonators
authors: Christopher Birchall, Henning Schomerus
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2259
abstract: We find that in nonhermitian PT-symmetric systems (as realized in resonators with balanced absorption and amplification), a mechanism based on quantum-to-classical correspondence reduces the occurrence of strongly amplified states. The reduction arises from semiclassically emerging hierarchical phase-space structures that are associated with the coupling of the amplifying and absorbing regions (forward and backward-trapped sets and their complements), and amounts to a generalization of the fractal Weyl law, earlier proposed for ballistically open systems. In the context of the recently introduced class of PT-symmetric laser-absorbers, this phenomenon reduces the number of states participating in the mode competition.

id: 1208.2287
title: Dynamical suppression of unwanted transition paths in multistate quantum systems
authors: Genko T. Genov, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2287
abstract: We introduce a method to suppress unwanted transition channels, even without knowing their couplings, and achieve perfect population transfer in multistate quantum systems by the application of composite pulse sequences. Unwanted transition paths may be present due to imperfect light polarization, stray electromagnetic fields, misalignment of quantization axis, spatial inhomogeneity of trapping fields, off-resonant couplings, etc. Compensation of simultaneous deviations in polarization, pulse area, and detuning is demonstrated. The accuracy, the flexibility and the robustness of this technique make it suitable for high-fidelity applications in quantum optics and quantum information processing.

id: 1208.2296
title: Improving the performance of bright quantum dot single photon sources using amplitude modulation
authors: Serkan Ates, Imad Agha, Angelo Gulinatti, Ivan Rech, Antonio Badolato, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1397 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2296
abstract: Single epitaxially-grown semiconductor quantum dots have great potential as single photon sources for photonic quantum technologies, though in practice devices often exhibit non-ideal behavior. Here, we demonstrate that amplitude modulation can improve the performance of quantum-dot-based sources. Starting with a bright source consisting of a single quantum dot in a fiber-coupled microdisk cavity, we use synchronized amplitude modulation to temporally filter the emitted light. We observe that the single photon purity, temporal overlap between successive emission events, and indistinguishability can be greatly improved with this technique. As this method can be applied to any triggered single photon source, independent of geometry and after device fabrication, it is a flexible approach to improve the performance of solid-state systems, which often suffer from excess dephasing and multi-photon background emission.

id: 1208.2317
title: Fault-Tolerance of "Bad" Quantum Low-Density Parity Check Codes
authors: Alexey A. Kovalev, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 4.5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 020304(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2317
abstract: We discuss error-correction properties for families of quantum low-density parity check (LDPC) codes with relative distance that tends to zero in the limit of large blocklength. In particular, we show that any family of LDPC codes, quantum or classical, where distance scales as a positive power of the block length, $d \propto n^\alpha$, $\alpha>0$, can correct all errors with certainty if the error rate per (qu)bit is sufficiently small. We specifically analyze the case of LDPC version of the quantum hypergraph-product codes recently suggested by Tillich and Z\'emor. These codes are a finite-rate generalization of the toric codes, and, for sufficiently large quantum computers, offer an advantage over the toric codes.

id: 1208.2326
title: A connection between optimal control theory and adiabatic passage techniques in quantum systems
authors: E. Ass¨¦mat, D. Sugny
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023406 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2326
abstract: This work explores the relationship between optimal control theory and adiabatic passage techniques in quantum systems. The study is based on a geometric analysis of the Hamiltonian dynamics constructed from the Pontryagin Maximum Principle. In a three-level quantum system, we show that the Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage technique can be associated to a peculiar Hamiltonian singularity. One deduces that the adiabatic pulse is solution of the optimal control problem only for a specific cost functional. This analysis is extended to the case of a four-level quantum system.

id: 1208.2365
title: Event-by-event simulation of quantum phenomena
authors: Hans De Raedt, Kristel Michielsen
comments: 
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 524, No. 8, 393-410 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2365
abstract: A discrete-event simulation approach is reviewed that does not require the knowledge of the solution of the wave equation of the whole system, yet reproduces the statistical distributions of wave theory by generating detection events one-by-one. The simulation approach is illustrated by applications to a two-beam interference experiment and two Bell test experiments, an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen- Bohm experiment with single photons employing postselection for pair identification and a single-neutron Bell test interferometry experiment with nearly 100% detection efficiency.

id: 1208.2367
title: Event-based simulation of neutron interferometry experiments
authors: Hans De Raedt, Fengping Jin, Kristel Michielsen
comments: Accepted for publication in Quantum Matter
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2367
abstract: A discrete-event approach, which has already been shown to give a cause-and-effect explanation of many quantum optics experiments, is applied to single-neutron interferometry experiments. The simulation algorithm yields a logically consistent description in terms of individual neutrons and does not require the knowledge of the solution of a wave equation. It is shown that the simulation method reproduces the results of several single-neutron interferometry experiments, including experiments which, in quantum theoretical language, involve entanglement. Our results demonstrate that classical (non-Hamiltonian) systems can exhibit correlations which in quantum theory are associated with interference and entanglement, also when all particles emitted by the source are accounted for.

id: 1208.2368
title: Event-by-event simulation of nonclassical effects in two-photon interference experiments
authors: Kristel Michielsen, Fengping Jin, Mutia Delina, Hans De Raedt
comments: Invited paper presented at FQMT11 Accepted for publication in Physica Scripta 27 June 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2368
abstract: A corpuscular simulation model for second-order intensity interference phenomena is discussed. It is shown that both the visibility ${\cal V}=1/2$ predicted for two-photon interference experiments with two independent sources and the visibility ${\cal V}=1$ predicted for two-photon interference experiments with a parametric down-conversion source can be explained in terms of a locally causal, modular, adaptive, corpuscular, classical (non-Hamiltonian) dynamical system. Hence, there is no need to invoke quantum theory to explain the so-called nonclassical effects in the interference of signal and idler photons in parametric-down conversion. A revision of the commonly accepted criterion of the nonclassical nature of light is needed.

id: 1208.2369
title: Corpuscular Event-by-Event Simulation of Quantum Optics Experiments: Application to a Quantum-Controlled Delayed-Choice Experiment
authors: Hans De Raedt, Mutia Delina, Fenping Jin, Kristel Michielsen
comments: Invited paper presented at FQMT11. Accepted for publication in Physica Scripta 27 June 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2369
abstract: A corpuscular simulation model of optical phenomena that does not require the knowledge of the solution of a wave equation of the whole system and reproduces the results of Maxwell's theory by generating detection events one-by-one is discussed. The event-based corpuscular model gives a unified description of multiple-beam fringes of a plane parallel plate and single-photon Mach-Zehnder interferometer, Wheeler's delayed choice, photon tunneling, quantum eraser, two-beam interference, Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm and Hanbury Brown-Twiss experiments. The approach is illustrated by application to a recent proposal for a quantum-controlled delayed choice experiment, demonstrating that also this thought experiment can be understood in terms of particle processes only.

id: 1208.2441
title: Direct Wigner tomography of a superconducting anharmonic oscillator
authors: Yoni Shalibo, Roy Resh, Ofer Fogel, David Shwa, Radoslaw Bialczak, John M. Martinis, Nadav Katz
comments: 5 figures, 1 table and supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2441
abstract: The analysis of wave-packet dynamics may be greatly simplified when viewed in phase-space. While harmonic oscillators are often used as a convenient platform to study wave-packets, arbitrary state preparation in these systems is more challenging. Here, we demonstrate a direct measurement of the Wigner distribution of complex photon states in an anharmonic oscillator - a superconducting phase circuit, biased in the small anharmonicity regime. We test our method on both non-classical states composed of two energy eigenstates and on the dynamics of a phase-locked wavepacket. This method requires a simple calibration, and is easily applicable in our system out to the fifth level.

id: 1208.2474
title: Radiation matter entanglement
authors: Israel Klich
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1109.2610
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2474
abstract: The quantization of the electromagnetic field in the presence of material bodies, at zero temperature is considered. It is shown that a dielectric does not act as thermal bath for the field and yields a non-trivial non-thermal mixed state of the field. The properties of this state and its entropy are studied. The dependence of the second Renyi entropy of the field on the distance between dispersive objects is shown to decay as R^{-4} for generic bodies.

id: 1208.2475
title: Optical quantum computing with photons of arbitrarily low fidelity and purity
authors: Peter P. Rohde
comments: Version submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052321 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2475
abstract: Linear optics quantum computing (LOQC) is a leading candidate for the implementation of large scale quantum computers. Here quantum information is encoded into the quantum states of light and computation proceeds via a linear optics network. It is well known that in such schemes there are stringent requirements on the spatio-temporal structure of photons -- they must be completely indistinguishable and of very high purity. We show that in the Boson-sampling model for LOQC these conditions may be significantly relaxed. We present evidence that by increasing the size of the system we can implement a computationally hard algorithm even if our photons have arbitrarily low fidelity and purity. These relaxed conditions make Boson-sampling LOQC within reach of present-day technology.

id: 1208.2490
title: Chronogenesis, Cosmogenesis and Collapse
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2490
abstract: A simple quantum model describing the onset of time is presented. This is combined with a simple quantum model of the onset of space. A major purpose is to explore the interpretational issues which arise. The state vector is a superposition of states representing "instants." The sample space and probability measure are discussed. Critical to the dynamics is state vector collapse: it is argued that a tenable interpretation is not possible without it. Collapse provides a mechanism whereby the universe size, like a clock, is narrowly correlated with the quantized time eigenvalues.

id: 1208.2501
title: Towards Communication-Efficient Quantum Oblivious Key Distribution
authors: M. V. Panduranga Rao, M. Jakobi
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2501
abstract: Oblivious Transfer, a fundamental problem in the field of secure multi-party computation is defined as follows: A database DB of N bits held by Bob is queried by a user Alice who is interested in the bit DB_b in such a way that (1) Alice learns DB_b and only DB_b and (2) Bob does not learn anything about Alice's choice b. While solutions to this problem in the classical domain rely largely on unproven computational complexity theoretic assumptions, it is also known that perfect solutions that guarantee both database and user privacy are impossible in the quantum domain. Jakobi et al. [Phys. Rev. A, 83(2), 022301, Feb 2011] proposed a protocol for Oblivious Transfer using well known QKD techniques to establish an Oblivious Key to solve this problem. Their solution provided a good degree of database and user privacy (using physical principles like impossibility of perfectly distinguishing non-orthogonal quantum states and the impossibility of superluminal communication) while being loss-resistant and implementable with commercial QKD devices (due to the use of SARG04). However, their Quantum Oblivious Key Distribution (QOKD) protocol requires a communication complexity of O(N log N). Since modern databases can be extremely large, it is important to reduce this communication as much as possible. In this paper, we first suggest a modification of their protocol wherein the number of qubits that need to be exchanged is reduced to O(N). A subsequent generalization reduces the quantum communication complexity even further in such a way that only a few hundred qubits are needed to be transferred even for very large databases.

id: 1208.2550
title: Quantum lost property: a possible operational meaning for the Hilbert-Schmidt product
authors: Matthew F. Pusey, Terry Rudolph
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure. v2: Less typos in text and less punctuation in title
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 044301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2550
abstract: Minimum error state discrimination between two mixed states \rho and \sigma can be aided by the receipt of "classical side information" specifying which states from some convex decompositions of \rho and \sigma apply in each run. We quantify this phenomena by the average trace distance, and give lower and upper bounds on this quantity as functions of \rho and \sigma. The lower bound is simply the trace distance between \rho and \sigma, trivially seen to be tight. The upper bound is \sqrt{1 - tr(\rho\sigma)}, and we conjecture that this is also tight. We reformulate this conjecture in terms of the existence of a pair of "unbiased decompositions", which may be of independent interest, and prove it for a few special cases. Finally, we point towards a link with a notion of non-classicality known as preparation contextuality.

id: 1208.2553
title: Purification to Locally Maximally Entangleable States
authors: Tatjana Carle, Barbara Kraus, Wolfgang D¨¹r, Julio I. de Vicente
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012328 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2553
abstract: Locally maximally entangleable states (LMESs) constitute a large set of multipartite states, containing for instance all stabilizer states. LMESs are uniquely characterized by (2n-1) phases, where n denotes the number of qubits. We consider here those LMES whose phases are either 0 or {\pi} and present a multipartite entanglement purification protocol for arbitrary such states. In contrast to all previously known recurrence protocols this protocol uses a novel ingredient, which is required due to the quantum correlations contained in the various LMESs. We compare this scheme to previously known entanglement purification protocols and show that the direct purification performs better than previously known protocols.

id: 1208.2575
title: Random-matrix theory of amplifying and absorbing resonators with PT or PTT' symmetry
authors: Christopher Birchall, Henning Schomerus
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 444006 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2575
abstract: We formulate gaussian and circular random-matrix models representing a coupled system consisting of an absorbing and an amplifying resonator, which are mutually related by a generalized time-reversal symmetry. Motivated by optical realizations of such systems we consider a PT or a PTT' time-reversal symmetry, which impose different constraints on magneto-optical effects, and then focus on five common settings. For each of these, we determine the eigenvalue distribution in the complex plane in the short-wavelength limit, which reveals that the fraction of real eigenvalues among all eigenvalues in the spectrum vanishes if all classical scales are kept fixed. Numerically, we find that the transition from real to complex eigenvalues in the various ensembles display a different dependence on the coupling strength between the two resonators. These differences can be linked to the level spacing statistics in the hermitian limit of the considered models.

id: 1208.2592
title: Experimental realization of three-color entanglement at optical fiber communication and atomic storage wavelengths
authors: Xiaojun Jia, Zhihui Yan, Zhiyuan Duan, Xiaolong Su, Hai Wang, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 4pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 109, 253604 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2592
abstract: Multi-color entangled states of light including low-loss optical fiber transmission and atomic resonance frequencies are essential resources for future quantum information network. We present the experimental achievement on the three-color entanglement generation at 852 nm, 1550 nm and 1440 nm wavelengths for optical continuous variables. The entanglement generation system consists of two cascaded non-degenerated optical parametric oscillators (NOPOs). The flexible selectivity of nonlinear crystals in the two NOPOs and the tunable property of NOPO provide large freedom for the frequency selection of three entangled optical beams, so the present system is possible to be developed as practical devices used for quantum information networks with atomic storage units and long fiber transmission lines.

id: 1208.2600
title: Comments on "Cooling by Heating: Refrigerator Powered by Photons"
authors: Amikam Levy, Robert Alicki, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 248901 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2600
abstract: We comment that the model proposed in Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 120603 (2012) violates the dynamical version of the third law of thermodynamics. We discuses the different formulations of the third law of thermodynamics and suggest a possible reason for the violation.

id: 1208.2679
title: Phase transitions with finite atom number in the Dicke Model
authors: J. G. Hirsch, O. Casta?os, E. Nahmad-Achar, R. L¨®pez-Pen?
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures, Conference Proceedings of CEWQO-2012, to be published as a Topical Issue of the journal Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2679
abstract: Two-level atoms interacting with a one mode cavity field at zero temperature have order parameters which reflect the presence of a quantum phase transition at a critical value of the atom-cavity coupling strength. Two popular examples are the number of photons inside the cavity and the number of excited atoms. Coherent states provide a mean field description, which becomes exact in the thermodynamic limit. Employing symmetry adapted (SA) SU(2) coherent states (SACS) the critical behavior can be described for a finite number of atoms. A variation after projection treatment, involving a numerical minimization of the SA energy surface, associates the finite number phase transition with a discontinuity in the order parameters, which originates from a competition between two local minima in the SA energy surface.

id: 1208.2706
title: Genuinely Multipartite Concurrence of N-qubit X-matrices
authors: S. M. Hashemi Rafsanjani, M. Huber, C. J. Broadbent, J. H. Eberly
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 86, 062303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2706
abstract: We find an algebraic formula for the N-partite concurrence of N qubits in an X-matrix. X- matricies are density matrices whose only non-zero elements are diagonal or anti-diagonal when written in an orthonormal basis. We use our formula to study the dynamics of the N-partite entanglement of N remote qubits in generalized N-party Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states. We study the case when each qubit interacts with a partner harmonic oscillator. It is shown that only one type of GHZ state is prone to entanglement sudden death; for the rest, N-partite entanglement dies out momentarily. Algebraic formulas for the entanglement dynamics are given in both cases.

id: 1208.2776
title: Quantum discord amplification induced by quantum phase transition via a cavity-Bose-Einstein-condensate system
authors: Ji-Bing Yuan, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2776
abstract: We propose a theoretical scheme to realize a sensitive amplification of quantum discord (QD) between two atomic qubits via a cavity-Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) system which was used to firstly realize the Dicke quantum phase transition (QPT) [Nature 464, 1301 (2010)]. It is shown that the influence of the cavity-BEC system upon the two qubits is equivalent to a phase decoherence environment. It is found that QPT in the cavity-BEC system is the physical mechanism of the sensitive QD amplification.

id: 1208.2781
title: Optimal Control for Electron Shuttling
authors: Jun Zhang, Loren Greenman, Xiaotian Deng, Ian M. Hayes, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys Rev B 87 235324, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2781
abstract: In this paper we apply an optimal control technique to derive control fields that transfer an electron between ends of a chain of donors or quantum dots. We formulate the transfer as an optimal steering problem, and then derive the dynamics of the optimal control. A numerical algorithm is developed to effectively generate control pulses. We apply this technique to transfer an electron between sites of a triple quantum dot and an ionized chain of phosphorus dopants in silicon. Using the optimal pulses for the spatial shuttling of phosphorus dopants, we then add hyperfine interactions to the Hamiltonian and show that a 500 G magnetic field will transfer the electron spatially as well as transferring the spin components of two of the four hyperfine states of the electron-nuclear spin pair.

id: 1208.2794
title: Geometric optimal control of the contrast imaging problem in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
authors: B. Bonnard, O. Cots, S. J. Glaser, M. Lapert, D. Sugny, Y. Zhang
comments: 30 pages, 13 figure
journal: IEEE transactions on automatic and control, 57, 8, 1957 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Medical Physics (physics.med-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2794
abstract: The objective of this article is to introduce the tools to analyze the contrast imaging problem in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. Optimal trajectories can be selected among extremal solutions of the Pontryagin Maximum Principle applied to this Mayer type optimal problem. Such trajectories are associated to the question of extremizing the transfer time. Hence the optimal problem is reduced to the analysis of the Hamiltonian dynamics related to singular extremals and their optimality status. This is illustrated by using the examples of cerebrospinal fluid / water and grey / white matter of cerebrum.

id: 1208.2814
title: Limits on Quantum Probability Rule by no-Signaling Principle
authors: Yeong Deok Han, Taeseung Choi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2814
abstract: We have studied the possibility of post-quantum theories more nonlocal than the (standard) quantum theory using the modification of the quantum probability rule under the no-signaling condition. For this purpose we have considered the situation that two spacelike separate parties Alice and Bob share an entangled two qubit system. We have modified the quantum probability rule as small as possible such that the first local measurements are governed by the usual Born rule and the second measurement by the modified quantum probability rule. We have shown that only the maximally entangled states can have higher nonlocality than the quantum upper bound while satisfying the no-signaling condition. This fact could be a partial explanation for why the nonlocality of the quantum theory is limited. As a by-product we have found the systematic way to obtain a variety of nonlocal boxes.

id: 1208.2851
title: Threading dislocation densities in semiconductor crystals: a geometric approach
authors: K. Bakke, F. Moraes
comments: 9 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376, 2838 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2851
abstract: In this letter, we introduce a geometric model to explain the origin of the observed shallow levels in semiconductors threaded by a dislocation density. We show that a uniform distribution of screw dislocations acts as an effective uniform magnetic field which yields bound states for a spin-half quantum particle, even in the presence of a repulsive Coulomb-like potential. This introduces energy levels within the band gap, increasing the carrier concentration in the region threaded by the dislocation density and adding additional recombination paths other than the near band-edge recombination.

id: 1208.2857
title: Requirement of Dissonance in Assisted Optimal State Discrimination
authors: Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen, L. C. Kwek, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 5 figures, 6 pages. Accepted by Scientific Reports
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 2134 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2857
abstract: A fundamental problem in quantum information is to explore what kind of quantum correlations is responsible for successful completion of a quantum information procedure. Here we study the roles of entanglement, discord, and dissonance needed for optimal quantum state discrimination when the latter is assisted with an auxiliary system. In such process, we present a more general joint unitary transformation than the existing results. The quantum entanglement between a principal qubit and an ancilla is found to be completely unnecessary, as it can be set to zero in the arbitrary case by adjusting the parameters in the general unitary without affecting the success probability. This result also shows that it is quantum dissonance that plays as a key role in assisted optimal state discrimination and not quantum entanglement. A necessary criterion for the necessity of quantum dissonance based on the linear entropy is also presented.

id: 1208.2863
title: Parallel execution of quantum gates in a long linear ion chain via Rydberg mode shaping
authors: Weibin Li, Alexander W. Glaetzle, Rejish Nath, Igor Lesanovsky
comments: 7 pages and 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2863
abstract: We present a mechanism that permits the parallel execution of multiple quantum gate operations within a single long linear ion chain. Our approach is based on large coherent forces that occur when ions are electronically excited to long-lived Rydberg states. The presence of Rydberg ions drastically affects the vibrational mode structure of the ion crystal giving rise to modes that are spatially localized on isolated sub-crystals which can be individually and independently manipulated. We theoretically discuss this Rydberg mode shaping in an experimentally realistic setup and illustrate its power by analyzing the fidelity of two conditional phase flip gates executed in parallel. Our scheme highlights a possible route towards large-scale quantum computing via vibrational mode shaping which is controlled on the single ion level.

id: 1208.2868
title: Super-stable tomography of any linear optical device
authors: Anthony Laing, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2868
abstract: Linear optical circuits of growing complexity are playing an increasing role in emerging photonic quantum technologies. Individual photonic devices are typically described by a unitary matrix containing amplitude and phase information, the characterisation of which is a key task. We present a constructive scheme to retrieve the unitary matrix describing an arbitrary linear optical device using data obtained from one-photon and two-photon ensembles. The scheme is stable on the arbitrarily increasable length scale of the photon packet and independent of photon loss at input and output ports of the device. We find a one-to-one correspondence between ideal data and unitary matrix, and identify the class of non-unitary matrices capable of reproducing the data. The method is extended for coherent state probes, which can simulate two-photon statistics with a reduced visibility. We analyse the performance of reconstruction to simulated noise.

id: 1208.2874
title: Towards a large-scale quantum simulator on diamond surface at room temperature
authors: Jianming Cai, Alex Retzker, Fedor Jelezko, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 9, 168 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2874
abstract: Strongly-correlated quantum many-body systems exhibits a variety of exotic phases with long-range quantum correlations, such as spin liquids and supersolids. Despite the rapid increase in computational power of modern computers, the numerical simulation of these complex systems becomes intractable even for a few dozens of particles. Feynman's idea of quantum simulators offers an innovative way to bypass this computational barrier. However, the proposed realizations of such devices either require very low temperatures (ultracold gases in optical lattices, trapped ions, superconducting devices) and considerable technological effort, or are extremely hard to scale in practice (NMR, linear optics). In this work, we propose a new architecture for a scalable quantum simulator that can operate at room temperature. It consists of strongly-interacting nuclear spins attached to the diamond surface by its direct chemical treatment, or by means of a functionalized graphene sheet. The initialization, control and read-out of this quantum simulator can be accomplished with nitrogen-vacancy centers implanted in diamond. The system can be engineered to simulate a wide variety of interesting strongly-correlated models with long-range dipole-dipole interactions. Due to the superior coherence time of nuclear spins and nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond, our proposal offers new opportunities towards large-scale quantum simulation at room temperatures.

id: 1208.2891
title: Near-Perfect Sorting of Orbital Angular Momentum and Angular Position States of Light
authors: Malcolm N. O'Sullivan, Mohammad Mirhosseini, Mehul Malik, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 22, pp. 24444-24449 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2891
abstract: We present a novel method for efficient sorting of photons prepared in states of orbital angular momentum (OAM) and angular position (ANG). A log-polar optical transform is used in combination with a holographic beam-splitting method to achieve better mode discrimination and reduced cross-talk than reported previously. Simulating this method for 7 modes, we have calculated an improved mutual information of 2.43 bits/photon and 2.29 bits/photon for OAM and ANG modes respectively. In addition, we present preliminary results from an experimental implementation of this technique. This method is expected to have important applications for high-dimensional quantum key distribution systems.

id: 1208.2911
title: Steady-state crystallization of Rydberg excitations in an optically driven lattice gas
authors: Michael Hoening, Dominik Muth, David Petrosyan, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 5 pages,3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2911
abstract: We study resonant optical excitations of atoms in a one-dimensional lattice to the Rydberg states interacting via the van der Waals potential which suppresses simultaneous excitation of neighboring atoms. Considering two- and three-level excitation schemes, we analyze the dynamics and stationary state of the continuously-driven, dissipative many-body system employing time-dependent density-matrix renormalization group (t-DMRG) simulations. We show that two-level atoms can exhibit only nearest neighbor correlations, while three-level atoms under dark-state resonant driving can develop finite-range crystalline order of Rydberg excitations. We present an approximate rate equation model whose analytic solution yields qualitative understanding of the numerical results.

id: 1208.2923
title: Chaos-driven dynamics in spin-orbit coupled atomic gases
authors: Jonas Larson, Brandon Anderson, Alexander Altland
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013624 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2923
abstract: The dynamics, appearing after a quantum quench, of a trapped, spin-orbit coupled, dilute atomic gas is studied. The characteristics of the evolution is greatly influenced by the symmetries of the system, and we especially compare evolution for an isotropic Rashba coupling and for an anisotropic spin-orbit coupling. As we make the spin-orbit coupling anisotropic, we break the rotational symmetry and the underlying classical model becomes chaotic; the quantum dynamics is affected accordingly. Within experimentally relevant time-scales and parameters, the system thermalizes in a quantum sense. The corresponding equilibration time is found to agree with the Ehrenfest time, i.e. we numerically verify a ~log(1/h) scaling. Upon thermalization, we find the equilibrated distributions show examples of quantum scars distinguished by accumulation of atomic density for certain energies. At shorter time-scales we discuss non-adiabatic effects deriving from the spin-orbit coupled induced Dirac point. In the vicinity of the Dirac point, spin fluctuations are large and, even at short times, a semi-classical analysis fails.

id: 1208.2946
title: Exact Casimir-Polder potentials: interaction of an atom with a conductor-patched dielectric surface
authors: Claudia Eberlein, Robert Zietal
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052522 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2946
abstract: We study the interaction between a neutral atom or molecule and a conductor-patched dielectric surface. We model this system by a perfectly reflecting disc lying atop of a non-dispersive dielectric half-space, both interacting with the neutral atom or molecule. We assume the interaction to be non-retarded and at zero temperature. We find an exact solution to this problem. In addition we generate a number of other useful results. For the case of no substrate we obtain the exact formula for the van der Waals interaction energy of an atom near a perfectly conducting disc. We show that the Casimir-Polder force acting on an atom that is polarized in the direction normal to the surface of the disc displays intricate behaviour. This part of our results is directly relevant to recent matter-wave experiments in which cold molecules are scattered by a radially symmetric object in order to study diffraction patterns and the so-called Poisson spot. Furthermore, we give an exact expression for the non-retarded limit of the Casimir-Polder interaction between an atom and a perfectly-conducting bowl.

id: 1208.2948
title: Proposal for realizing a multiqubit tunable phase gate of one qubit simultaneously controlling n target qubits using cavity QED
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Qi-Ping Su, Jin-Ming Liu
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 024301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2948
abstract: We propose a way to realize a multiqubit tunable phase gate of one qubit simultaneously controlling n target qubits with atoms in cavity QED. In this proposal, classical pulses interact with atoms outside a cavity only, thus the experimental challenge of applying a pulse to an intra-cavity single atom without affecting other atoms in the same cavity is avoided. Because of employing a first-order large detuning, the gate can be performed fast when compared with the use of a second-order large detuning. Furthermore, the gate operation time is independent of the number of qubits. This proposal is quite general, which can be applied to various superconducting qubits coupled to a resonator, NV centers coupled to a microsphere cavity or quantum dots in cavity QED.

id: 1208.2960
title: Nonlinear Optics Quantum Computing with Circuit-QED
authors: Prabin Adhikari, Mohammad Hafezi, J. M. Taylor
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 060503, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2960
abstract: One approach to quantum information processing is to use photons as quantum bits and rely on linear optical elements for most operations. However, some optical nonlinearity is necessary to enable universal quantum computing. Here, we suggest a circuit-QED approach to nonlinear optics quantum computing in the microwave regime, including a deterministic two-photon phase gate. Our specific example uses a hybrid quantum system comprising a LC resonator coupled to a superconducting flux qubit to implement a nonlinear coupling. Compared to the self-Kerr nonlinearity, we find that our approach has improved tolerance to noise in the qubit while maintaining fast operation.

id: 1208.2970
title: Wigner flow reveals topological order in quantum phase space dynamics
authors: Ole Steuernagel, Dimitris Kakofengitis, Georg Ritter
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 030401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2970
abstract: The behaviour of classical mechanical systems is characterised by their phase portraits, the collections of their trajectories. Heisenberg's uncertainty principle precludes the existence of sharply defined trajectories, which is why traditionally only the time evolution of wave functions is studied in quantum dynamics. These studies are quite insensitive to the underlying structure of quantum phase space dynamics. We identify the flow that is the quantum analog of classical particle flow along phase portrait lines. It reveals hidden features of quantum dynamics and extra complexity. Being constrained by conserved flow winding numbers, it also reveals fundamental topological order in quantum dynamics that has so far gone unnoticed.

id: 1208.2978
title: The theory of superqubits - supersymmetric qubits
authors: Kamil Bradler
comments: Considerably rewritten and a lot of background material on superlinear algebra and supermodules + examples
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2978
abstract: Superqubits are the minimal supersymmetric extension of qubits. In this paper we investigate in detail their unusual properties with emphasis on their potential role in (super)quantum information theory and foundations of quantum mechanics. We propose a partial solution to the problem of negative transition probabilities that appear in the theory and has been previously reported elsewhere. The modification does not affect the performance of supersymmetric entangled states in the CHSH game - superqubits provide resources more nonlocal than it is allowed by ordinary quantum mechanics.

id: 1208.3193
title: Capacity Region for Quantum Wiretap Coding
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 48 pages (3 files: 1 .tex, 1 .sty, 1 .eps)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3193
abstract: This paper follows very closely a famous paper by Csisz\'{a}r and K\"{o}rner about classical (non-quantum) wiretap coding. Our paper gives a self-contained and slightly novel review of some important results of the paper by Csisz\'{a}r and K\"{o}rner. Then we present a generalization of those results to the quantum realm, thus giving one of the first half-decent treatments of quantum wiretap coding. Like Csisz\'{a}r and K\"{o}rner, we too find a capacity region (i.e., the maximal achievable region of rates) characterized in terms of one-letter informations. We try to make our treatment of quantum wiretap coding as parallel a possible to our treatment of classical wiretap coding. This parallel treatment is facilitated by the use of CB nets (classical Bayesian networks) for the classical case and QB nets (quantum Bayesian networks) for the quantum one.

id: 1208.3203
title: Unusual Interaction of a Pre-and-Post-Selected Particle
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Eliahu Cohen, Shay Ben-Moshe
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. This is a preprint of a lecture given by E.C in the "International Conference on New Frontiers in Physics", Crete, June 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3203
abstract: Weak value is increasingly acknowledged as an important research tool for probing quantum pre- and post-selected ensembles, where some extraordinary phenomena occur. We generalize this concept to the broader notion of "weak potential" which enables predicting the interactions between particles when one of them is pre-/post-selected and the interaction potential is small. A harmonic oscillator is considered, undergoing weak position and momentum measurements between strong position measurement, and shown to possess peculiar physical properties, affecting the momentum rather than the position of another oscillator interacting with it.

id: 1208.3209
title: A geometric view of quantum cellular automata
authors: Jonathan R. McDonald, Paul M. Alsing, Howard A. Blair
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures. Conference Proceedings at SPIE Defense, Security and Sensing, Baltimore, MD 2012
journal: Quantum Information and Computation X, Proceedings of SPIE 8400, 84000S (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3209
abstract: Nielsen, et al. [1, 2] proposed a view of quantum computation where determining optimal algorithms is equivalent to extremizing a geodesic length or cost functional. This view of optimization is highly suggestive of an action principle of the space of N-qubits interacting via local operations. The cost or action functional is given by the cost of evolution operators on local qubit operations leading to causal dynamics, as in Blute et. al. [3] Here we propose a view of information geometry for quantum algorithms where the inherent causal structure determines topology and information distances [4, 5] set the local geometry. This naturally leads to geometric characterization of hypersurfaces in a quantum cellular automaton. While in standard quantum circuit representations the connections between individual qubits, i.e. the topology, for hypersurfaces will be dynamic, quantum cellular automata have readily identifiable static hypersurface topologies determined via the quantum update rules. We demonstrate construction of quantum cellular automata geometry and discuss the utility of this approach for tracking entanglement and algorithm optimization.

id: 1208.3268
title: Impact of Decoherence on Internal State Cooling using Optical Frequency Combs
authors: S. A. Malinovskaya, S. L. Horton
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3268
abstract: We discuss femtosecond Raman type techniques to control molecular vibrations, which can be implemented for internal state cooling from Feshbach states with the use of optical frequency combs with and without modulation. The technique makes use of multiple two-photon resonances induced by optical frequencies present in the comb. It provides us with a useful tool to study the details of molecular dynamics at ultracold temperatures. In our theoretical model we take into account decoherence in the form of spontaneous emission and collisional dephasing in order to ascertain an accurate model of the population transfer in the three-level system. We analyze the effects of odd and even chirps of the optical frequency comb in the form of sine and cosine functions on the population transfer. We compare the effects of these chirps to the results attained with the standard optical frequency comb to see if they increase the population transfer to the final deeply bound state in the presence of decoherence. We also analyze the inherent phase relation that takes place owing to collisional dephasing between molecules in each of the states. This ability to control the rovibrational states of a molecule with an optical frequency comb enables us to create a deeply bound ultracold polar molecules from the Feshbach state.

id: 1208.3411
title: Generation of a spin-squeezed state with trapped ions using a dressing field
authors: Atsushi Noguchi, Kenji Toyoda, Shinji Urabe
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3411
abstract: We propose a method for generating a spin-squeezed state that is a symmetric Dicke state, with trapped ions using only global access. The eigenstates of the ions under a strong dressing field become symmetric Dicke states and the M$\o$lmer--S$\o$rensen interaction selectively couples one of them to an initially populated auxiliary state. A $\mid D_{2n}^n>$ state, which is maximally spin squeezed, can be generated with high fidelity using only square pulses. Using an adiabatic technique, the ideal maximally spin-squeezed state is generated.

id: 1208.3419
title: Information-theoretic equilibration: the appearance of irreversibility under complex quantum dynamics
authors: Cozmin Ududec, Nathan Wiebe, Joseph Emerson
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures. Discussion has been clarified and additional numerical evidence for information theoretic equilibration is provided for a variant of the Heisenberg model as well as one and two-dimensional random local Hamiltonians
journal: Physical Review Letters 111, 080403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3419
abstract: The question of how irreversibility can emerge as a generic phenomena when the underlying mechanical theory is reversible has been a long-standing fundamental problem for both classical and quantum mechanics. We describe a mechanism for the appearance of irreversibility that applies to coherent, isolated systems in a pure quantum state. This equilibration mechanism requires only an assumption of sufficiently complex internal dynamics and natural information-theoretic constraints arising from the infeasibility of collecting an astronomical amount of measurement data. Remarkably, we are able to prove that irreversibility can be understood as typical without assuming decoherence or restricting to coarse-grained observables, and hence occurs under distinct conditions and time-scales than those implied by the usual decoherence point of view. We illustrate the effect numerically in several model systems and prove that the effect is typical under the standard random-matrix conjecture for complex quantum systems.

id: 1208.3496
title: 3-d quantum stabilizer codes with a power law energy barrier
authors: Kamil Michnicki
comments: 19 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3496
abstract: We introduce a new primitive, called welding, for combining two stabilizer codes to produce a new stabilizer code. We apply welding to construct surface codes and then use the surface codes to construct solid codes, a variant of a 3-d toric code with rough and smooth boundaries. Finally, we weld solid codes together to produce a $(O(L^3),1,O(L^{4/3}))$ stabilizer code with an energy barrier of $O(L^{2/3})$, which solves an open problem of whether a power law energy barrier is possible for local stabilizer code Hamiltonians in three-dimensions. The previous highest energy barrier is $O(\log L)$. Previous no-go results are avoided by breaking translation invariance.

id: 1208.3556
title: Linear-optical programmable quantum router
authors: Karel Lemr, Anton¨ªn ?ernoch
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Comm. 300, 282-285 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3556
abstract: This paper presents a scheme for linear-optical implementation of a programmable quantum router. Polarization encoded photon qubit is coherently routed to various spatial modes according to the state of several control qubits. In our implementation, the polarization state of the signal photon does not change under the routing operation. We also discuss generalization of the scheme that would allow to obtain signal dependent routing.

id: 1208.3569
title: Asymptotically optimal quantum channel reversal for qudit ensembles and multimode Gaussian states
authors: Peter Bowles, Madalin Guta, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 113041
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3569
abstract: We investigate the problem of optimally reversing the action of an arbitrary quantum channel C which acts independently on each component of an ensemble of n identically prepared d-dimensional quantum systems. In the limit of large ensembles, we construct the optimal reversing channel R* which has to be applied at the output ensemble state, to retrieve a smaller ensemble of m systems prepared in the input state, with the highest possible rate m/n. The solution is found by mapping the problem into the optimal reversal of Gaussian channels on quantum-classical continuous variable systems, which is here solved as well. Our general results can be readily applied to improve the implementation of robust long-distance quantum communication. As an example, we investigate the optimal reversal rate of phase flip channels acting on a multi-qubit register.

id: 1208.3588
title: Monogamous property of generalized W states in three-qubit systems in terms of relative entropy of entanglement
authors: Zhen Wang, Xiu-Hong Gao, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3588
abstract: Because of the difficulty in getting the analytic formula of relative entropy of entanglement, it becomes troublesome to study the monogamy relations of relative entropy of entanglement for three-qubit pure states. However, we find that all generalized W states have the monogamous property for relative entropy of entanglement by calculating the relative entropy of entanglement for the reduced states of the generalized W states in three-qubit systems.

id: 1208.3656
title: Quantum simulation via filtered Hamiltonian engineering: application to perfect quantum transport in spin networks
authors: Ashok Ajoy, Paola Cappellaro
comments: v2: Extended robustness to decoherence
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 220503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3656
abstract: We propose a method for Hamiltonian engineering in quantum information processing architectures that requires no local control, but only relies on collective qubit rotations and field gradients. The technique achieves a spatial modulation of the coupling strengths via a dynamical construction of a weighting function combined with a Bragg grating. As an example, we demonstrate how to generate the ideal Hamiltonian for perfect quantum information transport between two separated nodes of a large spin network. We engineer a spin chain with optimal couplings from a large spin network, such as naturally occurring in crystals, while decoupling all unwanted interactions. For realistic experimental parameters, our method can be used to drive perfect quantum information transport at room-temperature. The Hamiltonian engineering method can be made more robust under coherence and coupling disorder by a novel apodization scheme. Thus the method is quite general and can be used engineer the Hamiltonian of many complex spin lattices with different topologies and interactions.

id: 1208.3657
title: All-Resonant Control of Superconducting Resonators
authors: Frederick W. Strauch
comments: 4 + epsilon pages, plus supplemental material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3657
abstract: An all-resonant method is proposed to control the quantum state of superconducting resonators. This approach uses a tunable artificial atom linearly coupled to resonators, and allows for efficient routes to Fock state synthesis, qudit logic operations, and synthesis of NOON states. This resonant approach is theoretically analyzed, and found to perform signficantly better than existing proposals using the same technology.

id: 1208.3660
title: Positive Wigner functions render classical simulation of quantum computation efficient
authors: A. Mari, J. Eisert
comments: 7 pages, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 230503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3660
abstract: We show that quantum circuits where the initial state and all the following quantum operations can be represented by positive Wigner functions can be classically efficiently simulated. This is true both for continuous-variable as well as discrete variable systems in odd prime dimensions, two cases which will be treated on entirely the same footing. Noting the fact that Clifford and Gaussian operations preserve the positivity of the Wigner function, our result generalizes the Gottesman-Knill theorem. Our algorithm provides a way of sampling from the output distribution of a computation or a simulation, including the efficient sampling from an approximate output distribution in case of sampling imperfections for initial states, gates, or measurements. In this sense, this work highlights the role of the positive Wigner function as separating classically efficiently simulatable systems from those that are potentially universal for quantum computing and simulation, and it emphasizes the role of negativity of the Wigner function as a computational resource.

id: 1208.3703
title: Quantum Geometry and Interferometry
authors: Craig Hogan
comments: 10 pages, Latex, to appear in proceedings of 9th LISA symposium
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3703
abstract: All existing experimental results are currently interpreted using classical geometry. However, there are theoretical reasons to suspect that at a deeper level, geometry emerges as an approximate macroscopic behavior of a quantum system at the Planck scale. If directions in emergent quantum geometry do not commute, new quantum-geometrical degrees of freedom can produce detectable macroscopic deviations from classicality: spatially coherent, transverse position indeterminacy between any pair of world lines, with a displacement amplitude much larger than the Planck length. Positions of separate bodies are entangled with each other, and undergo quantum-geometrical fluctuations that are not describable as metric fluctuations or gravitational waves. These fluctuations can either be cleanly identified or ruled out using interferometers. A Planck-precision test of the classical coherence of space-time on a laboratory scale is now underway at Fermilab.

id: 1208.3744
title: Why the Tsirelson bound?
authors: Jeffrey Bub
comments: 17 pages
journal: Published in Meir Hemmo and Yemima Ben-Menahem (eds.), The Probable and the Improbable: The Meaning and Role of Probability in Physics, pp. 167-185 (Springer, 2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3744
abstract: Wheeler's question 'why the quantum' has two aspects: why is the world quantum and not classical, and why is it quantum rather than superquantum, i.e., why the Tsirelson bound for quantum correlations? I discuss a remarkable answer to this question proposed by Pawlowski et al (2009), who provide an information-theoretic derivation of the Tsirelson bound from a principle they call 'information causality.'

id: 1208.3757
title: The performance of the quantum adiabatic algorithm on random instances of two optimization problems on regular hypergraphs
authors: Edward Farhi, David Gosset, Itay Hen, A. W. Sandvik, Peter Shor, A. P. Young, Francesco Zamponi
comments: 20 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052334 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3757
abstract: In this paper we study the performance of the quantum adiabatic algorithm on random instances of two combinatorial optimization problems, 3-regular 3-XORSAT and 3-regular Max-Cut. The cost functions associated with these two clause-based optimization problems are similar as they are both defined on 3-regular hypergraphs. For 3-regular 3-XORSAT the clauses contain three variables and for 3-regular Max-Cut the clauses contain two variables. The quantum adiabatic algorithms we study for these two problems use interpolating Hamiltonians which are stoquastic and therefore amenable to sign-problem free quantum Monte Carlo and quantum cavity methods. Using these techniques we find that the quantum adiabatic algorithm fails to solve either of these problems efficiently, although for different reasons.

id: 1208.3905
title: Quantum Probes Reduce Measurements: Application to Distributed Grover Algorithm
authors: Iaakov Exman, Efrat Levy
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3905
abstract: Distributed computing seems to be a natural approach to overcome size limitations of quantum computers in terms of number of qubits. But one lacks an efficient distribution approach to deal systematically with potential algorithms. This work proposes suitable quantum probes to reduce measurements in distributed sub-systems. Probes are introduced in the context of distributed Grover search. These are shown to be indeed efficient. The latter can be generalized to be applicable to other distributed algorithms of interest.

id: 1208.3918
title: Low Depth Quantum Circuits for Ising Models
authors: S. Iblisdir, M. Cirio, O. Boada, G. K. Brennen
comments: 28 pages, 9 figures. Changes to v2: reformatted to two column, new citations added, expanded Appendices B and E. typos fixed. v3: Figure added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3918
abstract: A scheme for measuring complex temperature partition functions of Ising models is introduced. In the context of ordered qubit registers this scheme finds a natural translation in terms of global operations, and single particle measurements on the edge of the array. Two applications of this scheme are presented. First, through appropriate Wick rotations, those amplitudes can be analytically continued to yield estimates for partition functions of Ising models. Bounds on the estimation error, valid with high confidence, are provided through a central-limit theorem, which validity extends beyond the present context. It holds for example for estimations of the Jones polynomial. Interestingly, the kind of state preparations and measurements involved in this application can in principle be made "instantaneous", i.e. independent of the system size or the parameters being simulated. Second, the scheme allows to accurately estimate some non-trivial invariants of links. A third result concerns the computational power of estimations of partition functions for real temperature classical ferromagnetic Ising models on a square lattice. We provide conditions under which estimating such partition functions allows one to reconstruct scattering amplitudes of quantum circuits making the problem BQP-hard. Using this mapping, we show that fidelity overlaps for ground states of quantum Hamiltonians, which serve as a witness to quantum phase transitions, can be estimated from classical Ising model partition functions. Finally, we show that the ability to accurately measure corner magnetizations on thermal states of two-dimensional Ising models with magnetic field leads to fully polynomial random approximation schemes (FPRAS) for the partition function. Each of these results corresponds to a section of the text that can be essentially read independently.

id: 1208.3985
title: Revisiting the quantum Szilard engine with fully quantum considerations
authors: Hai Li, Jian Zou, Jun-Gang Li, Bin Shao, Lian-Ao Wu
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, to be published in Annals of Physics(NY)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3985
abstract: By considering level shifting during the insertion process we revisit the quantum Szilard engine (QSZE) with fully quantum consideration. We derive the general expressions of the heat absorbed from thermal bath and the total work done to the environment by the system in a cycle with two different cyclic strategies. We find that only the quantum information contributes to the absorbed heat, and the classical information acts like a feedback controller and has no direct effect on the absorbed heat. This is the first demonstration of the different effects of quantum information and classical information for extracting heat from the bath in the QSZE. Moreover, when the well width $L\rightarrow \infty $ or the temperature of the bath $T\rightarrow \infty $ the QSZE reduces to the classical Szilard engine (CSZE), and the total work satisfies the relation $W_{\mathtt{tot}}=k_{B}T \mathtt{ln}2$ as obtained by Sang Wook Kim et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 070401 (2011)] for one particle case.

id: 1208.3986
title: Quantum control of the motional states of trapped ions through fast switching of trapping potentials
authors: J. Alonso, F. M. Leupold, B. C. Keitch, J. P. Home
comments: Accepted by New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 023001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3986
abstract: We propose a new scheme for supplying voltages to the electrodes of microfabricated ion traps, enabling access to a regime in which changes to the trapping potential are made on timescales much shorter than the period of the secular oscillation frequencies of the trapped ions. This opens up possibilities for speeding up the transport of ions in segmented ion traps and also provides access to control of multiple ions in a string faster than the Coulomb interaction between them. We perform a theoretical study of ion transport using these methods in a surface-electrode trap, characterizing the precision required for a number of important control parameters. We also consider the possibilities and limitations for generating motional state squeezing using these techniques, which could be used as a basis for investigations of Gaussian-state entanglement.

id: 1208.4017
title: Single-Spin Spectrum-Analyzer for a Strongly Coupled Environment
authors: Shlomi Kotler, Nitzan Akerman, Yinnon Glickman, Roee Ozeri
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4017
abstract: A qubit can be used as a sensitive spectrum analyzer of its environment. Here we show how the problem of spectral analysis of noise induced by a strongly coupled environment can be solved for discrete spectra. Our analytical model shows non-linear signal dependence on noise power, as well as possible frequency mixing, both are inherent to quantum evolution. This model enabled us to use a single trapped ion as a sensitive probe for strong, non-Gaussian, discrete magnetic field noise. To overcome ambiguities arising from the non-linear character of strong noise, we develop a three step noise characterization scheme: peak identification, magnitude identification and fine-tuning. Finally, we compare experimentally equidistant versus Uhrig pulse schemes for spectral analysis. The method is readily available to any quantum probe which can be coherently manipulated.

id: 1208.4031
title: Vacuum state truncation via the quantum Zeno effect
authors: Tae-Gon Noh
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, LaTeX; TeX errors fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4031
abstract: In the context of quantum state engineering we analyze the effect of observation on nonlinear optical $n$-photon Fock state generation. We show that it is possible to truncate the vacuum component from an arbitrary photon number superposition without modifying its remaining parts. In the course of the full dynamical analysis of the effect of observation, it is also found that the Zeno and the anti-Zeno effects repeat periodically. We discuss the close relationship between vacuum state truncation and so-called "interaction-free" measurement.

id: 1208.4040
title: Precise Experimental Investigation of Eigenmodes in a Planar Ion Crystal
authors: H. Kaufmann, S. Ulm, G. Jacob, U. Poschinger, H. Landa, A. Retzker, M. B. Plenio, F. Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, supplemental material (mathematica and matlab files) available upon request
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 263003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4040
abstract: The accurate characterization of eigenmodes and eigenfrequencies of two-dimensional ion crystals provides the foundation for the use of such structures for quantum simulation purposes. We present a combined experimental and theoretical study of two-dimensional ion crystals. We demonstrate that standard pseudopotential theory accurately predicts the positions of the ions and the location of structural transitions between different crystal configurations. However, pseudopotential theory is insufficient to determine eigenfrequencies of the two-dimensional ion crystals accurately but shows significant deviations from the experimental data obtained from resolved sideband spectroscopy. Agreement at the level of 2.5 x 10^(-3) is found with the full time-dependent Coulomb theory using the Floquet-Lyapunov approach and the effect is understood from the dynamics of two-dimensional ion crystals in the Paul trap. The results represent initial steps towards an exploitation of these structures for quantum simulation schemes.

id: 1208.4049
title: Quantum Transport Enhancement by Time-Reversal Symmetry Breaking
authors: Zoltan Zimboras, Mauro Faccin, Zoltan Kadar, James Whitfield, Ben Lanyon, Jacob Biamonte
comments: 6+5 pages
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 2361 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4049
abstract: Quantum mechanics still provides new unexpected effects when considering the transport of energy and information. Models of continuous time quantum walks, which implicitly use time-reversal symmetric Hamiltonians, have been intensely used to investigate the effectiveness of transport. Here we show how breaking time-reversal symmetry of the unitary dynamics in this model can enable directional control, enhancement, and suppression of quantum transport. Examples ranging from exciton transport to complex networks are presented. This opens new prospects for more efficient methods to transport energy and information.

id: 1208.4082
title: Multiphoton population dynamics in a three-level lambda system and the related light-scattering spectrum
authors: Michal Berent, Ryszard Parzynski
comments: the version as published in J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 105502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4082
abstract: We generalize our analytic approach (Berent, M. and Parzy\'nski, R. (2009): Phys. Rev. A (80) 033834) to include the effect of strong depopulation of the initial state when considering the multiphoton population transfer and scattering of low-frequency light by a 3-level system in the lambda-type configuration. We discuss the quality of the approximations made, i.e., the adiabatic and generalized rotating-wave approximations.

id: 1208.4119
title: The lesson of causal discovery algorithms for quantum correlations: Causal explanations of Bell-inequality violations require fine-tuning
authors: Christopher J. Wood, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 29 pages, 28 figs. New in v2: a section presenting in detail our characterization of Bell's theorem as a contradiction arising from (i) the framework of causal models, (ii) the principle of no fine-tuning, and (iii) certain operational features of quantum theory; a section explaining why a denial of hidden variables affords even fewer opportunities for causal explanations of quantum correlations
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 033002 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4119
abstract: An active area of research in the fields of machine learning and statistics is the development of causal discovery algorithms, the purpose of which is to infer the causal relations that hold among a set of variables from the correlations that these exhibit. We apply some of these algorithms to the correlations that arise for entangled quantum systems. We show that they cannot distinguish correlations that satisfy Bell inequalities from correlations that violate Bell inequalities, and consequently that they cannot do justice to the challenges of explaining certain quantum correlations causally. Nonetheless, by adapting the conceptual tools of causal inference, we can show that any attempt to provide a causal explanation of nonsignalling correlations that violate a Bell inequality must contradict a core principle of these algorithms, namely, that an observed statistical independence between variables should not be explained by fine-tuning of the causal parameters. In particular, we demonstrate the need for such fine-tuning for most of the causal mechanisms that have been proposed to underlie Bell correlations, including superluminal causal influences, superdeterminism (that is, a denial of freedom of choice of settings), and retrocausal influences which do not introduce causal cycles.

id: 1208.4123
title: The completeness of quantum theory for predicting measurement outcomes
authors: Roger Colbeck, Renato Renner
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures. This is an expanded and more pedagogical version of arXiv:1005.5173 and arXiv:1111.6597 that discusses in detail the relation to other results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4123
abstract: The predictions that quantum theory makes about the outcomes of measurements are generally probabilistic. This has raised the question whether quantum theory can be considered complete, or whether there could exist alternative theories that provide improved predictions. Here we review recent work that considers arbitrary alternative theories, constrained only by the requirement that they are compatible with a notion of "free choice" (defined with respect to a natural causal order). It is shown that quantum theory is "maximally informative", i.e., there is no other compatible theory that gives improved predictions. Furthermore, any alternative maximally informative theory is necessarily equivalent to quantum theory. This means that the state a system has in such a theory is in one-to-one correspondence with its quantum-mechanical state (the wave function). In this sense, quantum theory is complete.

id: 1208.4154
title: Non-classical interference in integrated 3D multiports
authors: Thomas Meany, Michael Delanty, Simon Gross, Graham D. Marshall, M. J. Steel, Michael J. Withford
comments: 10 pages, 16 figures, journal article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4154
abstract: We demonstrate three and four input multiports in a three dimensional glass platform, fabricated using the femtosecond laser direct-write technique. Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) interference is observed and a full quantum characterisation is performed, obtaining two photon correlation matrices for all combinations of input and output ports. For the three-port case, the quantum visibilities are accurately predicted solely from measurement of the classical coupling ratios.

id: 1208.4187
title: Protecting quantum entanglement from amplitude damping
authors: Zeyang Liao, M. Al-Amri, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4187
abstract: Quantum entanglement is a critical resource for quantum information and quantum computation. However, entanglement of a quantum system is subjected to change due to the interaction with the environment. One typical result of the interaction is the amplitude damping that usually results in the reduction of the entanglement. Here we propose a protocol to protect quantum entanglement from the amplitude damping by applying Hadamard and CNOT gates. As opposed to some recently studied methods, the scheme presented here does not require weak measurement in the reversal process, leading to a faster recovery of entanglement. We propose a possible experimental implementation based on linear optical system.

id: 1208.4188
title: Network information theory for classical-quantum channels
authors: Ivan Savov
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, McGill University, School of Computer Science, July 2012, 223 pages, 18 figures, 36 TikZ diagrams
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4188
abstract: Network information theory is the study of communication problems involving multiple senders, multiple receivers and intermediate relay stations. The purpose of this thesis is to extend the main ideas of classical network information theory to the study of classical-quantum channels. We prove coding theorems for quantum multiple access channels, quantum interference channels, quantum broadcast channels and quantum relay channels. A quantum model for a communication channel describes more accurately the channel's ability to transmit information. By using physically faithful models for the channel outputs and the detection procedure, we obtain better communication rates than would be possible using a classical strategy. In this thesis, we are interested in the transmission of classical information, so we restrict our attention to the study of classical-quantum channels. These are channels with classical inputs and quantum outputs, and so the coding theorems we present will use classical encoding and quantum decoding. We study the asymptotic regime where many copies of the channel are used in parallel, and the uses are assumed to be independent. In this context, we can exploit information-theoretic techniques to calculate the maximum rates for error-free communication for any channel, given the statistics of the noise on that channel. These theoretical bounds can be used as a benchmark to evaluate the rates achieved by practical communication protocols. Most of the results in this thesis consider classical-quantum channels with finite dimensional output systems, which are analogous to classical discrete memoryless channels. In the last chapter, we will show some applications of our results to a practical optical communication scenario, in which the information is encoded in continuous quantum degrees of freedom, which are analogous to classical channels with Gaussian noise.

id: 1208.4197
title: Robust Adaptive measurement for qubit state preparation
authors: Saki Tanaka, Naoki Yamamoto
comments: Some statements have been largely changed, and a new figure has been added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062331 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4197
abstract: This paper reconsiders the method of adaptive measurement for qubit state preparation developed by Jacobs and shows an alternative scheme that works even under unknown unitary evolution of the state. The key idea is that the measurement is adaptively changed so that one of the eigenstates of the measured observable is always set between the current and the target states at while that eigenstate converges to the target. The most significant feature of this scheme is that the measurement strength can be taken constant unlike Jacobs' one, which eventually provides fine robustness property of the controlled state against the uncertainty of the unitary evolution.

id: 1208.4200
title: Quantification of Entanglement of Teleportation in Arbitrary Dimensions
authors: Sk. Sazim, Satyabrata Adhikari, Subhashish Banerjee, T. Pramanik
comments: 10 pages, 17 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing 13, 863 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4200
abstract: We study bipartite entangled states in arbitrary dimensions and obtain different bounds for the entanglement measures in terms of teleportation fidelity. We find that there is a simple relation between negativity and teleportation fidelity for pure states but for mixed states, an upper bound is obtained for negativity in terms of teleportation fidelity using convex-roof extension negativity (CREN). However, with this it is not clear how to distinguish betweeen states useful for teleportation and positive partial transpose (PPT) entangled states. Further, there exists a strong conjecture in the literature that all PPT entangled states, in 3 \times 3 systems, have Schmidt rank two. This motivates us to develop measures capable of identifying states useful for teleportation and dependent on the Schmidt number. We thus establish various relations between teleportation fidelity and entanglement measures depending upon Schmidt rank of the states. These relations and bounds help us to determine the amount of entanglement required for teleportation, which we call the ``Entanglement of Teleportation''. These bounds are used to determine the teleportation fidelity as well as the entanglement required for teleportation of states modeled by a two qutrit mixed system, as well as two qubit open quantum systems.

id: 1208.4295
title: Anomalous decoherence in a dissipative two-level system
authors: Hai-Bin Liu, Jun-Hong An, Chong Chen, Qing-Jun Tong, Hong-Gang Luo, C. H. Oh
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052139 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4295
abstract: We study systematically the non-Markovian decoherence dynamics of a dissipative two-level system, i.e., the so-called spin-boson model. It is interesting to find that the decoherence tends to be inhibited with the increase of the coupling strength between the system and the reservoir, which is contrary to the common recognition that a stronger coupling always induces a severer decoherence. This is attributed to the occurrence of a quantum phase transition (QPT). The relationship between this QPT and conventional delocalized-localized QPT is also discussed. Our result suggests a useful control method to overcome the detrimental effects of the reservoir to the system.

id: 1208.4299
title: Simulating 2+1d Lattice QED with dynamical matter using ultracold atoms
authors: Erez Zohar, J. Ignacio Cirac, Benni Reznik
comments: Includes supplementary material. Added references, minor modifications
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 055302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4299
abstract: We suggest a method to simulate lattice compact Quantum Electrodynamics (cQED) using ultracold atoms in optical lattices, which includes dynamical Dirac fermions in 2+1 dimensions. This allows to test dynamical effects of confinement as well as 2d flux loops deformations and breaking, and to observe Wilson-loop area-law.

id: 1208.4307
title: Entanglement of Gaussian states and the applicability to quantum key distribution over fading channels
authors: Vladyslav C. Usenko, Bettina Heim, Christian Peuntinger, Christoffer Wittmann, Christoph Marquardt, Gerd Leuchs, Radim Filip
comments: 20 pages, 15 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 093048 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4307
abstract: Entanglement properties of Gaussian states of light as well as the security of continuous variable quantum key distribution with Gaussian states in free-space fading channels are studied. These qualities are shown to be sensitive to the statistical properties of the transmittance distribution in the cases when entanglement is strong or when channel excess noise is present. Fading, i.e. transmission fluctuations, caused by beam wandering due to atmospheric turbulence, is a frequent challenge in free-space communication. We introduce a method of fading discrimination and subsequent post-selection of the corresponding sub-states and show that it can improve the entanglement resource and restore the security of the key distribution over a realistic fading link. Furthermore, the optimal post-selection strategy in combination with an optimized entangled resource is shown to drastically increase the protocol robustness to excess noise, which is confirmed for experimentally measured fading channel characteristics. The stability of the result against finite data ensemble size and imperfect channel estimation is also addressed.

id: 1208.4317
title: Negative time delay for wave reflection from a one-dimensional semi-harmonic well
authors: Oscar Rosas-Ortiz, Sara Cruz y Cruz, Nicolas Fernandez-Garcia
comments: 6 pages, 5 eps figures. Talk presented at the XXX Workshop on Geometric Methods in Physics, Bialowieza, Poland, 2011
journal: Geometric Methods in Physics, Trends in Mathematics 2013, pp 275-281
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4317
abstract: It is reported that the phase time of particles which are reflected by a one-dimensional semi-harmonic well includes a time delay term which is negative for definite intervals of the incoming energy. In this interval, the absolute value of the negative time delay becomes larger as the incident energy becomes smaller. The model is a rectangular well with zero potential energy at its right and a harmonic-like interaction at its left.

id: 1208.4336
title: Generalized Hermite-Gauss decomposition of the two-photon state produced by spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: S. P. Walborn, A. H. Pimentel
comments: 14 page draft, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 165502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4336
abstract: We provide a general decomposition of the two-photon state produced by spontaneous parametric down-conversion in Hermite-Gaussian modes, in the case that the pump beam is described by a Hermite-Gaussian beam of any order. We show that the spatial correlations depend explicitly on the order of the pump beam, as well as other experimental parameters. We use the decomposition to demonstrate a few interesting cases. Our results are applicable to the engineering of two-photon spatial entanglement, in particular for non-Gaussian states.

id: 1208.4419
title: Decay process of quantum open system at finite-temperature
authors: X. Xiao, Y. B. Gao
comments: 
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 58 (2012) 251
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4419
abstract: Starting from the formal solution to the Heisenberg equation, we revisit an universal model for a quantum open system with a harmonic oscillator linearly coupled to a boson bath. The analysis of the decay process for a Fock state and a coherent state demonstrate that this method is very useful in dealing with the problems in decay process of the open system. For finite temperature, the calculations of the reduced density matrix and the mean excitation number for the open system show that an initial coherent state will evolve into a temperature-dependant coherent state after tracing over the bath variables. Also in short-time limit, a temperature-dependant effective Hamiltonian for the open system characterizes the decay process of the open system.

id: 1208.4431
title: Vacuum fluctuations the clue for a realistic interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 34 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1203.5688, arXiv:1205.0916
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4431
abstract: Arguments are gived for the plausibility that quantum mechanics is a stochastic theory and that many quantum phenomena derive from the existence of a real noise consisting of vacuum fluctuations of all fundamental fields existing in nature. Planck's constant appears as the parameter fixing the scale of the fluctuations. Hints for an intuitive explanation are offered for some typical quantum features, like the uncertainty principle or the particle behaviour of fields. It is proposed that the recent discovery of dark energy in the universe is an argument for the reality of the vacuum fluctuations. A study is made of the compatibility of the model with the results of performed tests of Bell\'{}s inequalities.

id: 1208.4491
title: Macrorealism from entropic Leggett-Garg inequalities
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, H. S. Karthik, Sudha, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX, 2 eps figures, Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052103 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4491
abstract: We formulate entropic Leggett-Garg inequalities, which place constraints on the statistical outcomes of temporal correlations of observables. The information theoretic inequalities are satisfied if macrorealism holds. We show that the quantum statistics underlying correlations between time-separated spin component of a quantum rotor mimics that of spin correlations in two spatially separated spin-$s$ particles sharing a state of zero total spin. This brings forth the violation of the entropic Leggett-Garg inequality by a rotating quantum spin-$s$ system in similar manner as does the entropic Bell inequality (Phys. Rev. Lett. 61, 662 (1988)) by a pair of spin-$s$ particles forming a composite spin singlet state.

id: 1208.4526
title: Generation of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen State via Earth's Gravitational Field
authors: Jun-Li Li, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4526
abstract: Although various physical systems have been explored to produce entangled states involving electromagnetic, strong, and weak interactions, the gravity has not yet been touched in practical entanglement generation. Here, we propose an experimentally feasible scheme for generating spin entangled neutron pairs via the Earth's gravitational field, whose productivity can be one pair in every few seconds with the current technology. The scheme is realized by passing two neutrons through a specific rectangular cavity, where the gravity adjusts the neutrons into entangled state. This provides a simple and practical way for the implementation of the test of quantum nonlocality and statistics in gravitational field.

id: 1208.4531
title: High spatial entanglement via chirped quasi-phase-matched optical parametric down-conversion
authors: Ji?¨ª Svozil¨ªk, Jan Pe?ina Jr, Juan P. Torres
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev, A 86, 052318 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4531
abstract: By making use of the spatial shape of paired photons, parametric down-conversion allows the generation of two-photon entanglement in a multidimensional Hilbert space. How much entanglement can be generated in this way? In principle, the infinite-dimensional nature of the spatial degree of freedom renders unbounded the amount of entanglement available. However, in practice, the specific configuration used, namely its geometry, the length of the nonlinear crystal and the size of the pump beam, can severely limit the value that could be achieved. Here we show that the use of quasi-phase-matching engineering allows to increase the amount of entanglement generated, reaching values of tens of ebits of entropy of entanglement under different conditions. Our work thus opens a way to fulfill the promise of generating massive spatial entanglement under a diverse variety of circumstances, some more favorable for its experimental implementation.

id: 1208.4555
title: Tunable refraction in a two dimensional quantum metamaterial
authors: M. J. Everitt, J. H. Samson, S. E. Savelev, T. P. Spiller, R. Wilson, A. M. Zagoskin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 023837 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4555
abstract: In this paper we consider a two-dimensional metamaterial comprising an array of qubits (two level quantum objects). Here we show that a two-dimensional quantum metamaterial may be controlled, e.g. via the application of a magnetic flux, so as to provide controllable refraction of an input signal. Our results are consistent with a material that could be quantum birefringent (beam splitter) or not dependent on the application of this control parameter. We note that quantum metamaterials as proposed here may be fabricated from a variety of current candidate technologies from superconducting qubits to quantum dots. Thus the ideas proposed in this work would be readily testable in existing state of the art laboratories.

id: 1208.4575
title: Multi-photon quantum interference in a multi-port integrated photonic device
authors: Benjamin J. Metcalf, Nicholas Thomas-Peter, Justin B. Spring, Dmytro Kundys, Matthew A. Broome, Peter Humphreys, Xian-Min Jin, Marco Barbieri, W. Steven Kolthammer, James C. Gates, Brian J. Smith, Nathan K. Langford, Peter G. R. Smith, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Communications 4 1356 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4575
abstract: Increasing the complexity of quantum photonic devices is essential for many optical information processing applications to reach a regime beyond what can be classically simulated, and integrated photonics has emerged as a leading platform for achieving this. Here, we demonstrate three-photon quantum operation of an integrated device containing three coupled interferometers, eight spatial modes and many classical and nonclassical interferences. This represents a critical advance over previous complexities and the first on-chip nonclassical interference with more than two photonic inputs. We introduce a new scheme to verify quantum behaviour, using classically characterised device elements and hierarchies of photon correlation functions. We accurately predict the device's quantum behaviour and show operation inconsistent with both classical and bi-separable quantum models. Such methods for verifying multiphoton quantum behaviour are vital for achieving increased circuit complexity. Our experiment paves the way for the next generation of integrated photonic quantum simulation and computing devices.

id: 1208.4620
title: Model of the optical emission of a driven semiconductor quantum dot: phonon-enhanced coherent scattering and off-resonant sideband narrowing
authors: Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Ahsan Nazir
comments: Published version. 5 pages, 2 figures, plus 4 page supplement. Title changed, figure 1 revised, various edits and additions to the text
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 217401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4620
abstract: We study the crucial role played by the solid-state environment in determining the photon emission characteristics of a driven quantum dot. For resonant driving, we predict a phonon-enhancement of the coherently emitted radiation field with increasing driving strength, in stark contrast to the conventional expectation of a rapidly decreasing fraction of coherent emission with stronger driving. This surprising behaviour results from thermalisation of the dot with respect to the phonon bath, and leads to a nonstandard regime of resonance fluorescence in which significant coherent scattering and the Mollow triplet coexist. Off-resonance, we show that despite the phonon influence, narrowing of dot spectral sideband widths can occur in certain regimes, consistent with an experimental trend.

id: 1208.4628
title: The Ordering Ambiguity
authors: S. Habib Mazharimousavi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4628
abstract: The kinetic energy operator of a quantum particle with position dependent mass and the associated ordering ambiguity is revisited. We introduce a new form of this operator which is a continues or discreet superposition of the acceptable values for the ordering parameters.

id: 1208.4642
title: Quantum search using non-Hermitian adiabatic evolution
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, Gennady P. Berman
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052316 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4642
abstract: We propose a non-Hermitian quantum annealing algorithm which can be useful for solving complex optimization problems. We demonstrate our approach on Grover's problem of finding a marked item inside of unsorted database. We show that the energy gap between the ground and excited states depends on the relaxation parameters, and is not exponentially small. This allows a significant reduction of the searching time. We discuss the relations between the probabilities of finding the ground state and the survival of a quantum computer in a dissipative environment.

id: 1208.4646
title: Quantum State Sensitivity of an Autoresonant Superconducting Circuit
authors: K. W. Murch, E. Ginossar, S. J. Weber, R. Vijay, S.M. Girvin, I. Siddiqi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86 220503R (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4646
abstract: When a frequency chirped excitation is applied to a classical high-Q nonlinear oscillator, its motion becomes dynamically synchronized to the drive and large oscillation amplitude is observed, provided the drive strength exceeds the critical threshold for autoresonance. We demonstrate that when such an oscillator is strongly coupled to a quantized superconducting qubit, both the effective nonlinearity and the threshold become a non-trivial function of the qubit-oscillator detuning. Moreover, the autoresonant threshold is sensitive to the quantum state of the qubit and may be used to realize a high fidelity, latching readout whose speed is not limited by the oscillator Q.

id: 1208.4720
title: Non-Markovian quantum input-output networks
authors: Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu, Re-Bing Wu, Kurt Jacobs, Franco Nori
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4720
abstract: Quantum input-output response analysis is a useful method for modeling the dynamics of complex quantum networks, such as those for communication or quantum control via cascade connections. Non-Markovian effects have not yet been studied in such networks. Here we extend the Markovian input-output network formalism developed in optical systems to non-Markovian cascaded networks which can be used, e.g., to analyze the input-output response of mesoscopic quantum networks. We use this formalism to explore the behavior of superconducting qubit networks, where we examine the effect of finite cavity bandwidths. We also discuss its application to open- and closed-loop control networks, and show how these networks create effective Hamiltonians for the controlled system.

id: 1208.4776
title: Time-bin entangled photon holes
authors: J. Liang, J.D. Franson, T.B. Pittman
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4776
abstract: The general concept of entangled photon holes is based on a correlated absence of photon pairs in an otherwise constant optical background. Here we consider the specialized case when this background is confined to two well-defined time bins, which allows the formation of time-bin entangled photon holes. We show that when the typical coherent state background is replaced by a true single-photon (Fock state) background, the basic time-bin entangled photon-hole state becomes equivalent to one of the time-bin entangled photon-pair states. We experimentally demonstrate these ideas using a parametric down-conversion photon-pair source, linear optics, and post-selection to violate a Bell inequality with time-bin entangled photon holes.

id: 1208.4797
title: Experimental implementation of encoded logical qubit operations in a perfect quantum error correcting code
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Raymond Laflamme, Dieter Suter
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 100503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4797
abstract: Large-scale universal quantum computing requires the implementation of quantum error correction (QEC). While the implementation of QEC has already been demonstrated for quantum memories, reliable quantum computing requires also the application of nontrivial logical gate operations to the encoded qubits. Here, we present examples of such operations by implementing, in addition to the identity operation, the NOT and the Hadamard gate to a logical qubit encoded in a five qubit system that allows correction of arbitrary single qubit errors. We perform quantum process tomography of the encoded gate operations, demonstrate the successful correction of all possible single qubit errors and measure the fidelity of the encoded logical gate operations.

id: 1208.4804
title: Physical Cost of Erasing Quantum Correlation
authors: Arun Kumar Pati
comments: Latex, no figs, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4804
abstract: Erasure of information stored in a quantum state requires energy cost and is inherently an irreversible operation. If quantumness of a system is physical, does erasure of quantum correlation as measured by discord also need some energy cost? Here, we show that change in quantum correlation is never larger than the total entropy change of the system and the environment. The entropy cost of erasing correlation has to be at least equal to the amount of quantum correlation erased. Hence, quantum correlation can be regarded as genuinely physical. We show that the new bound leads to the Landauer erasure. The physical cost of erasing quantum correlation is well respected in the case of bleaching of quantum information, thermalization, and can have potential application for any channel leading to erasure of quantum correlation.

id: 1208.4813
title: Low-Loss All-Optical Zeno Switch in a Microdisk Cavity Using EIT
authors: B. David Clader, Scott M. Hendrickson, Ryan M. Camacho, Bryan C. Jacobs
comments: Updated with new references, corrected Eq 2a, and added introductory text. 7 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 5, pp. 6169-6179 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4813
abstract: We present theoretical results of a low-loss all-optical switch based on electromagnetically induced transparency and the classical Zeno effect in a microdisk resonator. We show that a control beam can modify the atomic absorption of the evanescent field which suppresses the cavity field buildup and alters the path of a weak signal beam. We predict more than 35 dB of switching contrast with less than 0.1 dB loss using just 2 micro-Watts of control-beam power for signal beams with less than single photon intensities inside the cavity.

id: 1208.4817
title: Quantum discord in the ground state of spin chains
authors: Marcelo S. Sarandy, Thiago R. de Oliveira, Luigi Amico
comments: v2: published version. 24 pages, 12 figures. Special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems" edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1345030 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4817
abstract: The ground state of a quantum spin chain is a natural playground for investigating correlations. Nevertheless, not all correlations are genuinely of quantum nature. Here we review the recent progress to quantify the 'quantumness' of the correlations throughout the phase diagram of quantum spin systems. Focusing to one spatial dimension, we discuss the behavior of quantum discord close to quantum phase transitions. In contrast to the two-spin entanglement, pairwise discord is effectively long-ranged in critical regimes. Besides the features of quantum phase transitions, quantum discord is especially feasible to explore the factorization phenomenon, giving rise to nontrivial ground classical states in quantum systems. The effects of spontaneous symmetry breaking are also discussed as well as the identification of quantum critical points through correlation witnesses.

id: 1208.4828
title: A coherent and passive one dimensional quantum memory
authors: Yuting Ping, John H. Jefferson, Brendon W. Lovett
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, plus supplement (7 pages, 5 figures); with blank pages removed from the previous version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4828
abstract: We show that the state of a flying qubit may be transferred to a chain of identical, (near) ferromagnetically polarised, but non-interacting, static spin-1/2 particles in a passive way. During this process the flying qubit is coherently polarised, emerging in the direction of the majority static spins. We also show that this process is reversible for at least two flying qubits injected sequentially and thus has the potential to be exploited as a passive quantum memory to encode the flying qubits without the necessity of resetting between successive encoding operations. We show that the quantum information may be spread over many static spins in the memory chain, making the mechanism resistent to spin decoherence and other imperfections. Among some potential architectures, we discuss implementing the memory in a photonic waveguide embedded with quantum dots, which is resilient to various possible errors.

id: 1208.4890
title: Fast and robust spin manipulation in a quantum dot by electric fields
authors: Yue Ban, Xi Chen, E. Ya Sherman, J. G. Muga
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, with supplemental material. Errors in the published version have been corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 206602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4890
abstract: We apply an invariant-based inverse engineering method to control by time-dependent electric fields electron spin dynamics in a quantum dot with spin-orbit coupling in a weak magnetic field. The designed electric fields provide a shortcut to adiabatic processes that flips the spin rapidly, thus avoiding decoherence effects. This approach, being robust with respect to the device-dependent noise, can open new possibilities for the spin-based quantum information processing.

id: 1208.4907
title: On the Fourier Transform Approach to Quantum Error Control
authors: Hari Dilip Kumar
comments: MS Thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4907
abstract: Quantum codes are subspaces of the state space of a quantum system that are used to protect quantum information. Some common classes of quantum codes are stabilizer (or additive) codes, non-stabilizer (or non-additive) codes obtained from stabilizer codes, and Clifford codes. These are analyzed in a framework using the Fourier transform on finite groups, the finite group in question being a subgroup of the quantum error group considered. All the classes of codes that can be obtained in this framework are explored, including codes more general than Clifford codes. The error detection properties of one of these more general classes ("direct sums of translates of Clifford codes") are characterized. Examples codes are constructed, and computer code search results presented and analysed.

id: 1208.4911
title: The Fourier Transform Approach to Quantum Coding
authors: Hari Dilip Kumar, B. Sundar Rajan
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, 8 tables. Submitted to IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4911
abstract: Quantum codes are subspaces of the state space of a quantum system that are used to protect quantum information. Some common classes of quantum codes are stabilizer (or additive) codes, non-stabilizer (or non-additive) codes obtained from stabilizer codes, and Clifford codes. We analyze these in the framework of the Fourier inversion formula on a group algebra, the group in question being a subgroup of the error group considered. We study other possible code spaces that may be obtained via such an approach, obtaining codes that are the direct sums of translates of Clifford codes, and more general codes obtained from idempotents in the transform domain. We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for error detection by direct sums of translates of Clifford codes, and provide an example using an error group with non-Abelian index group.

id: 1208.4920
title: Security of continuous-variable quantum key distribution against general attacks
authors: Anthony Leverrier, Ra¨²l Garc¨ªa-Patr¨®n, Renato Renner, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 5 pages, plus 11 page appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 030502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4920
abstract: We prove the security of Gaussian continuous-variable quantum key distribution against arbitrary attacks in the finite-size regime. The novelty of our proof is to consider symmetries of quantum key distribution in phase space in order to show that, to good approximation, the Hilbert space of interest can be considered to be finite-dimensional, thereby allowing for the use of the postselection technique introduced by Christandl, Koenig and Renner (Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 020504 (2009)). Our result greatly improves on previous work based on the de Finetti theorem which could not provide security for realistic, finite-size, implementations.

id: 1208.4924
title: The Implications of Ignorance for Quantum Error Correction Thresholds
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. Title change enforced by journal
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032328 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4924
abstract: Quantum error correcting codes have a distance parameter, conveying the minimum number of single spin errors that could cause error correction to fail. However, the success thresholds of finite per-qubit error rate that have been proven for the likes of the Toric code require them to work well beyond this limit. We argue that without the assumption of being below the distance limit, the success of error correction is not only contingent on the noise model, but what the noise model is believed to be. Any discrepancy must adversely affect the threshold rate, and risks invalidating existing threshold theorems. We prove that for the 2D Toric code, suitable thresholds still exist by utilising a mapping to the 2D random bond Ising model.

id: 1208.4960
title: Approximate Dirac solutions of complex -symmetric P?schl-Teller potential in view of spin and pseudospin symmetries
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Majid Hamzavi
comments: 22 pages; 10 figures, to appear in Physica Scripta (2012)
journal: Physica Scripta 86 (4) (2012) 045002-11
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4960
abstract: By employing an exponential-type approximation scheme to replace the centrifugal term, we have approximately solved the Dirac equation for spin- particle subject to the complex -symmetric scalar and vector P\"oschl-Teller (PT) potentials with arbitrary spin-orbit -wave states in view of spin and pseudospin (p-spin) symmetries. The real bound-state energy eigenvalue equation and the corresponding two-spinor components wave function expressible in terms of the hypergeometric functions are obtained by means of the wave function analysis. The spin- Dirac equation and the spin- Klein-Gordon (KG) equation with the complex P\"oschl-Teller potentials share the same energy spectrum under the choice of (i.e., exact spin and p-spin symmetries).

id: 1208.4961
title: Correlations in Quantum Physics
authors: Ross Dorner, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure. Submitted to Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems" edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4961
abstract: We provide an historical perspective of how the notion of correlations has evolved within quantum physics. We begin by reviewing Shannon's information theory and its first application in quantum physics, due to Everett, in explaining the information conveyed during a quantum measurement. This naturally leads us to Lindblad's information theoretic analysis of quantum measurements and his emphasis of the difference between the classical and quantum mutual information. After briefly summarising the quantification of entanglement using these and related ideas, we arrive at the concept of quantum discord that naturally captures the boundary between entanglement and classical correlations. Finally we discuss possible links between discord and the generation of correlations in thermodynamic transformations of coupled harmonic oscillators.

id: 1208.4964
title: Quantum discord is Bohr's notion of non-mechanical disturbance introduced in his answer to EPR
authors: Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 17 pages. Accepted for publication in Annals of Physics on 4th May 2013
journal: Ann. Phys. 338, 361-374 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4964
abstract: By rigorously formalizing the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) argument, and Bohr's reply, one can appreciate that both arguments were technically correct. Their opposed conclusions about the completeness of quantum mechanics hinged upon an explicit difference in their criteria for when a measurement on Alice's system can be regarded as not disturbing Bob's system. The EPR criteria allow their conclusion (incompletness) to be reached by establishing the physical reality of just a single observable $q$ (not a conjugate pair $q$ and $p$), but I show that Bohr's definition of disturbance prevents the EPR chain of reasoning from establishing even this. Moreover, I show that Bohr's definition is intimately related to the asymmetric concept of quantum discord from quantum information theory: if and only if the joint state has no Alice-discord, she can measure any observable without disturbing (in Bohr's sense) Bob's system. Discord can be present even when systems are unentangled, and this has implications for our understanding of the historical development of notions of quantum nonlocality.

id: 1208.4988
title: Mixedness and entanglement for two-mode Gaussian states
authors: L. A. M. Souza, R. C. Drumond, M. C. Nemes, K. M. Fonseca Romero
comments: Accepted for publication in Optics Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4988
abstract: We analytically exploit the two-mode Gaussian states nonunitary dynamics. We show that in the zero temperature limit, entanglement sudden death (ESD) will always occur for symmetric states (where initial single mode compression is $z_0$) provided the two mode squeezing $r_0$ satisfies $0 < r_0 < 1/2 \log (\cosh (2 z_0)).$ We also give the analytical expressions for the time of ESD. Finally, we show the relation between the single modes initial impurities and the initial entanglement, where we exhibit that the later is suppressed by the former.

id: 1208.5015
title: Quantum state tomography by continuous measurement and compressed sensing
authors: A. Smith, C. A. Riofr¨ªo, B. E. Anderson, H. Sosa-Martinez, I. H. Deutsch, P. S. Jessen
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87, 030102(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5015
abstract: The need to perform quantum state tomography on ever larger systems has spurred a search for methods that yield good estimates from incomplete data. We study the performance of compressed sensing (CS) and least squares (LS) estimators in a fast protocol based on continuous measurement on an ensemble of cesium atomic spins. Both efficiently reconstruct nearly pure states in the 16-dimensional ground manifold, reaching average fidelities FCS = 0.92 and FLS = 0.88 using similar amounts of incomplete data. Surprisingly, the main advantage of CS in our protocol is an increased robustness to experimental imperfections.

id: 1208.5090
title: Discrimination with an error margin among three symmetric states of a qubit
authors: H. Sugimoto, Y. Taninaka, A. Hayashi
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, typos corrected, presentation improved
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042311 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5090
abstract: We consider a state discrimination problem which deals with settings of minimum-error and unambiguous discrimination systematically by introducing a margin for the probability of an incorrect guess. We analyze discrimination of three symmetric pure states of a qubit. The measurements are classified into three types, and one of the three types is optimal depending on the value of the error margin. The problem is formulated as one of semidefinite programming. Starting with the dual problem derived from the primal one, we analytically obtain the optimal success probability and the optimal measurement that attains it in each domain of the error margin. Moreover, we analyze the case of three symmetric mixed states of a qubit.

id: 1208.5091
title: Controllable optical phase shift over one radian from a single isolated atom
authors: A. Jechow, B. G. Norton, S. H?ndel, V. Bl¨±ms, E. W. Streed, D. Kielpinski
comments: submitted
journal: PRL 110, 113605 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5091
abstract: Fundamental optics such as lenses and prisms work by applying phase shifts to incoming light via the refractive index. In these macroscopic devices, many particles each contribute a miniscule phase shift, working together to impose a total phase shift of many radians. In principle, even a single isolated particle can apply a radian-level phase shift, but observing this phenomenon has proven challenging. We have used a single trapped atomic ion to induce and measure a large optical phase shift of $1.3 \pm 0.1$ radians in light scattered by the atom. Spatial interferometry between the scattered light and unscattered illumination light enables us to isolate the phase shift in the scattered component. The phase shift achieves the maximum value allowed by atomic theory over the accessible range of laser frequencies, validating the microscopic model that underpins the macroscopic phenomenon of the refractive index. Single-atom phase shifts of this magnitude open up new quantum information protocols, including long-range quantum phase-shift-keying cryptography [1,2] and quantum nondemolition measurement [3,4].

id: 1208.5101
title: Remark on the coherent information saturating its upper bound
authors: Lin Zhang
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX, a little remark is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5101
abstract: Coherent information is a useful concept in quantum information theory. It connects with other notions in data processing. In this short remark, we discuss the coherent information saturating its upper bound. A necessary and sufficient condition for this saturation is derived.

id: 1208.5121
title: Quantum channel detection
authors: C. Macchiavello, M. Rossi
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042335 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5121
abstract: We present a method to detect properties of quantum channels, assuming that some a priori information about the form of the channel is available. The method is based on a correspondence with entanglement detection methods for multipartite density matrices based on witness operators. We first illustrate the method in the case of entanglement breaking channels and non separable random unitary channels, and show how it can be implemented experimentally by means of local measurements. We then study the detection of non separable maps and show that for pairs of systems of dimension higher than two the detection operators are not the same as in the random unitary case, highlighting a richer separability structure of quantum channels with respect to quantum states. Finally we consider the set of PPT maps, developing a technique to reveal NPT maps.

id: 1208.5123
title: Nonclassical properties of states engineered by superpositions of quantum operations on classical states
authors: Arpita Chatterjee, Himadri Shekhar Dhar, Rupamanjari Ghosh
comments: 19 pages, IOPclass(iopart.cls)
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 205501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5123
abstract: We consider an experimentally realizable scheme for manipulating quantum states using a general superposition of products of field annihilation ($\hat{a}$) and creation ($\hat{a}^\dag$) operators of the type ($s \hat{a}\hat{a}^\dag+ t \hat{a}^\dag \hat{a}$), with $s^2 + t^2 = 1$. Such an operation, when applied on states with classical features, is shown to introduce strong nonclassicality. We quantify the generated degree of nonclassicality by the negative volume of Wigner distribution in the phase space and investigate two other observable nonclassical features, sub-Poissonian statistics and squeezing. We find that the operation introduces negativity in the Wigner distribution of an input coherent state and changes the Gaussianity of an input thermal state. This provides the possibility of engineering quantum states with specific nonclassical features.

id: 1208.5132
title: Maximally epistemic interpretations of the quantum state and contextuality
authors: M. S. Leifer, O. J. E. Maroney
comments: v1: 4 pages, revTeX4.1, some overlap with arXiv:1207.7192. v2: Changes in response to referees including revised proof of theorem 1, more rigorous discussion of measure theoretic assumptions and extra introductory material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110:120401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5132
abstract: We examine the relationship between quantum contextuality (in both the standard Kochen-Specker sense and in the generalised sense proposed by Spekkens) and models of quantum theory in which the quantum state is maximally epistemic. We find that preparation noncontextual models must be maximally epistemic, and these in turn must be Kochen-Specker noncontextual. This implies that the Kochen-Specker theorem is sufficient to establish both the impossibility of maximally epistemic models and the impossibility of preparation noncontextual models. The implication from preparation noncontextual to maximally epistemic then also yields a proof of Bell's theorem from an EPR-like argument.

id: 1208.5148
title: Loss Tolerance with a Concatenated Graph State
authors: David A. Herrera-Mart¨ª, Terry Rudolph
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, 5 tables
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 13, 0995 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5148
abstract: A new way of addressing loss errors is introduced which combines ideas from measurement-based quantum computation and concatenated quantum codes, allowing for universal quantum computation. It is shown that for the case where leakage is detected upon measurement, the scheme performs well under 23% loss rate. For loss rates below 10%, this approach performs better than the best scheme known up to date [Phys. Rev.Lett., 97(12):120501]. If lost qubits are tagged prior to measurement, it can tolerate up to 50% loss. The overhead per logical qubit is shown to be significantly lower than other schemes. The obtention of the threshold is entirely analytic.

id: 1208.5174
title: Quantum limits on phase-preserving linear amplifiers
authors: Carlton M. Caves, Joshua Combes, Zhang Jiang, Shashank Pandey
comments: 37 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063802 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5174
abstract: The purpose of a phase-preserving linear amplifier is to make a small signal larger, regardless of its phase, so that it can be perceived by instruments incapable of resolving the original signal, while sacrificing as little as possible in signal-to-noise. Quantum mechanics limits how well this can be done: a high-gain linear amplifier must degrade the signal-to-noise; the noise added by the amplifier, when referred to the input, must be at least half a quantum at the operating frequency. This well-known quantum limit only constrains the second moments of the added noise. Here we derive the quantum constraints on the entire distribution of added noise: we show that any phase-preserving linear amplifier is equivalent to a parametric amplifier with a physical state for the ancillary mode; the noise added to the amplified field mode is distributed according to the Wigner function of the ancilla state.

id: 1208.5181
title: Dissipation and detection of polaritons in ultrastrong coupling regime
authors: Motoaki Bamba, Tetsuo Ogawa
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063831 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5181
abstract: We have investigated theoretically a dissipative polariton system in the ultrastrong light-matter coupling regime without using the rotating-wave approximation on system-reservoir coupling. Photons in a cavity and excitations in matter respectively couple two large ensembles of harmonic oscillators (photonic and excitonic reservoirs). Inheriting the quantum statistics of polaritons in the ultrastrong coupling regime, in the ground state of the whole system, the two reservoirs are not in the vacuum states but they are squeezed and correlated. We suppose this non-vacuum reservoir state in the master equation and in the input-output formalism with Langevin equations. Both two approaches consistently guarantee the decay of polariton system to its ground state, and no photon detection is also obtained when the polariton system is in the ground state.

id: 1208.5218
title: Design method of dynamical decoupling sequences integrated with optimal control theory
authors: Yutaka Tabuchi, Masahiro Kitagawa
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5218
abstract: A method for synthesizing dynamical decoupling (DD) sequences is presented, which can tailor these sequences to a given set of qubits, environments, instruments, and available resources using partial information of the system. The key concept behind the generation of the DD sequences involves not only extricating the strong dependence on the coupling strengths according to the "optimal control," but also exploiting the "refocus" technique used conventionally to obtain DD sequences. The concept is a generalized one that integrates optimal control and designing of DD sequences.

id: 1208.5223
title: Third Party CNOT Attack on MDI QKD
authors: Arpita Maitra
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5223
abstract: In this letter, we concentrate on the very recently proposed Measurement Device Independent Quantum Key Distribution (MDI QKD) protocol by Lo, Curty and Qi (PRL, 2012). We study how one can suitably present an eavesdropping strategy on MDI QKD, that is in the direction of the fundamental CNOT attack on BB84 protocol, though our approach is quite different. In this strategy, Eve will be able to know expected half of the secret bits communicated between Alice and Bob with certainty (probability 1) without introducing any error. Further, for the remaining bits, where Eve will only be able to predict the bit values as in random guess (with probability 1/2), she will certainly find out whether her interaction induced an error in the secret bits between the communicating parties. Given the asymmetric nature of the CNOT attack, we also introduce Hadamard gates to present a symmetric version. Though our analysis does not refute the security claims in MDI QKD, adapting the CNOT attack in this scenario requires nontrivial approach using entanglement swapping.

id: 1208.5238
title: Low error measurement-free phase gates for qubus computation
authors: T. J. Proctor, T. P. Spiller
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5238
abstract: We discuss the desired criteria for a two-qubit phase gate and present a method for realising such a gate for quantum computation that is measurement-free and low error. The gate is implemented between qubits via an intermediate bus mode. We take a coherent state as the bus and use cross-Kerr type interactions between the bus and the qubits. This new method is robust against parameter variations and is thus low error. It fundamentally improves on previous methods due its deterministic nature and the lack of approximations used in the geometry of the phase rotations. This interaction is applicable both to solid state and photonic qubit systems.

id: 1208.5297
title: Mixed-state evolution in the presence of gain and loss
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Eva-Maria Graefe
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures (published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 230405 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5297
abstract: A model is proposed that describes the evolution of a mixed state of a quantum system for which gain and loss of energy or amplitude are present. Properties of the model are worked out in detail. In particular, invariant subspaces of the space of density matrices corresponding to the fixed points of the dynamics are identified, and the existence of a transition between the phase in which gain and loss are balanced and the phase in which this balance is lost is illustrated in terms of the time average of observables. The model is extended to include a noise term that results from a uniform random perturbation generated by white noise. Numerical studies of example systems show the emergence of equilibrium states that suppress the phase transition.

id: 1208.5334
title: The Power of Noisy Fermionic Quantum Computation
authors: Fernando de Melo, Piotr ?wikli¨½ski, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure
journal: New J. Phys. 15 013015 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5334
abstract: We consider the realization of universal quantum computation through braiding of Majorana fermions supplemented by unprotected preparation of noisy ancillae. It has been shown by Bravyi [Phys. Rev. A 73, 042313 (2006)] that under the assumption of perfect braiding operations, universal quantum computation is possible if the noise rate on a particular 4-fermion ancilla is below 40%. We show that beyond a noise rate of 89% on this ancilla the quantum computation can be efficiently simulated classically: we explicitly show that the noisy ancilla is a convex mixture of Gaussian fermionic states in this region, while for noise rates below 53% we prove that the state is not a mixture of Gaussian states. These results were obtained by generalizing concepts in entanglement theory to the setting of Gaussian states and their convex mixtures. In particular we develop a complete set of criteria, namely the existence of a Gaussian-symmetric extension, which determine whether a state is a convex mixture of Gaussian states.

id: 1208.5359
title: Non-adiabatically driven electron in quantum wire with spin-orbit interaction
authors: T. Cadez, J. H. Jefferson, A. Ramsak
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 013029 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5359
abstract: An exact solution is derived for the wave function of an electron in a semiconductor quantum wire with spin-orbit interaction and driven by external time dependent harmonic confining potential. The formalism allows analytical expressions for various quantities to be derived, such as spin and pseudo-spin rotations, energy and occupation probabilities for excited states. It is demonstrated how perfect spin and pseudo-spin flips can be achieved at high frequencies of order \omega, the confining potential level spacing. By an appropriately chosen driving term, spin manipulation can be exactly performed far into the non-adiabatic regime. Implications for spin-polarised emission and spin-dependent transport are also discussed.

id: 1208.5372
title: Emergent quantum Euler equation and Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Maxim V. Eingorn, Vitaliy D. Rusov
comments: 10 pages
journal: Foundations of Physics, Volume 44, Issue 2, pp 183-191 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5372
abstract: In this paper, proceeding from the recently developed way of deriving the quantum-mechanical equations from the classical ones, the complete system of hydrodynamical equations, including the quantum Euler equation, is derived for a perfect fluid and an imperfect fluid with pairwise interaction between the particles. For the Bose-Einstein condensate of the latter one the Bogolyubov spectrum of elementary excitations is easily reproduced in the acoustic approximation.

id: 1208.5378
title: Quantum State Discrimination with General Figures of Merit
authors: Won-Young Hwang, Yeong-Deok Han
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 032339 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5378
abstract: We solve the problem of quantum state discrimination with "general (symmetric) figures of merit" for an even number of symmetric quantum bits with use of the no-signaling principle. It turns out that conditional probability has the same form for any figure of merit. Optimal measurement and corresponding conditional probability are the same for any monotonous figure of merit.

id: 1208.5381
title: Enhancement of quantum correlations for the system of cavity QED by applying bang-bang pulses
authors: Hang-Shi Xu, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: EPL 95(2011)60003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5381
abstract: We propose a scheme of increasing quantum correlations for the cavity quantum electrodynamics system consisting of two noninteracting two-level atoms each locally interacting with its own quantized field mode by bang-bang pulses. We investigate the influence of the bang-bang pulses on the dynamics of quantum discord, entanglement, quantum mutual information and classical correlation between the two atoms. It is shown that the amount of quantum discord and entanglement of the two atoms can be improved by applying the bang-bang pulses.

id: 1208.5387
title: Protecting quantum correlations of two qubits in independent non-Markovian environments by bang-bang pulses
authors: Hang-Shi Xu, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: JOSA B 29(2012)2074
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5387
abstract: We investigate how to protect quantum correlations for two qubits each locally interacting with its own non-Markovian environment by making use of bang-bang pulses. It is shown that the quantum discord dynamics presents the phenomenon of sudden change for some certain initial states. We also find that the amount of quantum correlation between two qubits can be improved by applying a train of pulses and protected more effectively with shorter interval pulses or longer reservoir correlation time.

id: 1208.5425
title: Depth-Optimized Reversible Circuit Synthesis
authors: Mona Arabzadeh, Morteza Saheb Zamani, Mehdi Sedighi, Mehdi Saeedi
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, 5 tables; Quantum Information Processing (QINP) journal, 2012
journal: Quantum Information Processing: Volume 12, Issue 4 (2013), Page 1677-1699
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5425
abstract: In this paper, simultaneous reduction of circuit depth and synthesis cost of reversible circuits in quantum technologies with limited interaction is addressed. We developed a cycle-based synthesis algorithm which uses negative controls and limited distance between gate lines. To improve circuit depth, a new parallel structure is introduced in which before synthesis a set of disjoint cycles are extracted from the input specification and distributed into some subsets. The cycles of each subset are synthesized independently on different sets of ancillae. Accordingly, each disjoint set can be synthesized by ?different synthesis methods. Our analysis shows that the best worst-case synthesis cost of reversible circuits in the linear nearest neighbor architecture is improved by the proposed approach. Our experimental results reveal the effectiveness of the proposed approach to reduce cost and circuit depth for several benchmarks.

id: 1208.5459
title: Evidence for entanglement at high temperatures in an engineered molecular magnet
authors: M. S. Reis, S. Soriano, A. M. dos Santos, B. C. Sales, D. O. Soares-Pinto, P. Brandao
comments: 
journal: EPL 100, 50001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5459
abstract: The molecular compound [Fe$_{2}$($\mu_{2}$-oxo)(C$_{3}$H$_{4}$N$_{2}$)$_{6}$(C$_{2}$O$_{4}$)$_{2}$] was designed and synthesized for the first time and its structure was determined using single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The magnetic susceptibility of this compound was measured from 2 to 300 K. The analysis of the susceptibility data using protocols developed for other spin singlet ground-state systems indicates that the quantum entanglement would remain at temperatures up to 732 K, significantly above the highest entanglement temperature reported to date. The large gap between the ground state and the first-excited state (282 K) suggests that the spin system may be somewhat immune to decohering mechanisms. Our measurements strongly suggest that molecular magnets are promising candidate platforms for quantum information processing.

id: 1208.5478
title: Vacuum local and global electromagnetic self-energies for a point-like and an extended field source
authors: Roberto Passante, Lucia Rizzuto, Salvatore Spagnolo
comments: 8 pages. The final publication is available at link.springer.com
journal: Eur. Phys. J. C 73, 2419 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5478
abstract: We consider the electric and magnetic energy densities (or equivalently field fluctuations) in the space around a point-like field source in its ground state, after having subtracted the spatially uniform zero-point energy terms, and discuss the problem of their singular behavior at the source's position. We show that the assumption of a point-like source leads, for a simple Hamiltonian model of the interaction of the source with the electromagnetic radiation field, to a divergence of the renormalized electric and magnetic energy density at the position of the source. We analyze in detail the mathematical structure of such singularity in terms of a delta function and its derivatives. We also show that an appropriate consideration of these singular terms solves an apparent inconsistency between the total field energy and the space integral of its density. Thus the finite field energy stored in these singular terms gives an important contribution to the self-energy of the source. We then consider the case of an extended source, smeared out over a finite volume and described by an appropriate form factor. We show that in this case all divergences in local quantities such as the electric and the magnetic energy density, as well as any inconsistency between global and space-integrated local self-energies, disappear.

id: 1208.5503
title: Nonviolation of Bell's Inequality in Translation Invariant Systems
authors: Thiago R. de Oliveira, A. Saguia, M. S. Sarandy
comments: Published erratum added at the end
journal: Europhysics Letters 100 (6), 60004 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5503
abstract: The nature of quantum correlations in strongly correlated systems has been a subject of intense research. In particular, it has been realized that entanglement and quantum discord are present at quantum phase transitions and able to characterize it. Surprisingly, it has been shown for a number of different systems that qubit pairwise states, even when highly entangled, do not violate Bell's inequalities, being in this sense local. Here we show that such a local character of quantum correlations is in fact general for translation invariant systems and has its origins in the monogamy trade-off obeyed by tripartite Bell correlations. We illustrate this result in a quantum spin chain with a soft breaking of translation symmetry. In addition, we extend the monogamy inequality to the $N$-qubit scenario, showing that the bound increases with $N$ and providing examples of its saturation through uniformly generated random pure states.

id: 1208.5509
title: Analysis of the damped quantum search and its application to the one-dimensional Ising system
authors: Neris Ilano, Cristine Villagonzalo, Ronald Banzon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5509
abstract: An analysis on the damped quantum search by exploring the rate at which the target state is obtained. The results were compared with that of the classical search since the standard Grover's algorithm does not give a convergent result if the number of target state is unknown. For a large number of target states, the classical and the damped quantum search give a similar result. However, for intermediate values of the target size the damped quantum search gives a higher probability of success than the classical search. Furthermore, we also made an analysis on the average number of iterations needed to obtain at least one of the target states. As the number of target states is reduced, the damped quantum search gives a better result than the classical search. The results coincide if the size of target state is comparable to the size of the sample.

id: 1208.5524
title: Back to the Future: A roadmap for quantum simulation from vintage quantum chemistry
authors: Peter J. Love
comments: To Appear in Advances in Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5524
abstract: A discussion of the prospects for quantum computation for quantum chemistry from the point of view of the history of classical calculations of electronic structure.

id: 1208.5539
title: Implementing a topological quantum model using a cavity lattice
authors: Ze-Liang Xiang, Ting Yu, Wenxian Zhang, Xuedong Hu, J. Q. You
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables
journal: Science China Physics, Mechanics & Astronomy, 2012, Volume 55, Number 9, Pages 1549-1556
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5539
abstract: Kitaev model has both Abelian and non-Abelian anyonic excitations. It can act as a starting point for topological quantum computation. However, this model Hamiltonian is difficult to implement in natural condensed matter systems. Here we propose a quantum simulation scheme by constructing the Kitaev model Hamiltonian in a lattice of coupled cavities with embadded $\Lambda$-type three-level atoms. In this scheme, several parameters are tunable, for example, via external laser fields. Importantly, our scheme is based on currently existing technologies and it provides a feasible way of realizing the Kitaev model to explore topological excitations.

id: 1208.5544
title: Some Mutant Forms of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Tatsu Takeuchi, Lay Nam Chang, Zachary Lewis, Djordje Minic
comments: 5 pages aipproc, 1 pdf figure. Talk presented by Takeuchi at QTRF6, June 11, 2012, V\"axj\"o, Sweden
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5544
abstract: We construct a `mutant' form of quantum mechanics on a vector space over the finite Galois field GF(q). We find that the correlations in our model do not violate the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) version of Bell's inequality, despite the fact that the predictions of this discretized quantum mechanics cannot be reproduced with any hidden variable theory. An alternative `mutation' is also suggested.

id: 1208.5563
title: Enhancement of Geometric Phase by Frustration of Decoherence: A Parrondo like Effect
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, C. M. Chandrashekar, Arun K. Pati
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042119 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5563
abstract: Geometric phase plays an important role in evolution of pure or mixed quantum states. However, when a system undergoes decoherence the development of geometric phase may be inhibited. Here, we show that when a quantum system interacts with two competing environments there can be enhancement of geometric phase. This effect is akin to Parrondo like effect on the geometric phase which results from quantum frustration of decoherence. Our result suggests that the mechanism of two competing decoherence can be useful in fault-tolerant holonomic quantum computation.

id: 1208.5564
title: Optimal control theory of harmonic generation
authors: Ido Schaefer, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 31 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063417 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5564
abstract: Coherent control of harmonic generation was studied theoretically. A specific harmonic order was targeted. An optimal control theory was employed to find the driving field where restrictions were imposed on the frequency band. Additional restrictions were added to suppress undesired outcomes such as ionization and dissociation. The method was formulated in the frequency domain. An update procedure for the field based on relaxation was employed. The method was tested on several examples demonstrating generation of high frequencies from a driving field with a restricted frequency band.

id: 1208.5574
title: Optimal Asymmetric Quantum Cloning
authors: Alastair Kay, Ravishankar Ramanathan, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 12 pages
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput 13, 880 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5574
abstract: While the no-cloning theorem, which forbids the perfect copying of quantum states, is well-known as one of the defining features of quantum mechanics, the question of how well the theory allows a state to be cloned is yet to be completely solved. In this paper, rigorous solutions to the problem of M to N asymmetric cloning of qudits are obtained in a number of interesting cases. The central result is the solution to the 1 to N universal asymmetric qudit cloning problem for which the exact trade-off in the fidelities of the clones for every N and d is derived. Analogous results are proven for qubits when M=N-1. We also consider state-dependent 1 to N qubit cloning, providing a general parametrization in terms of a Heisenberg star Hamiltonian. In all instances, we determine the feasibility of implementing the cloning economically, i.e., without an ancilla, and determine the dimension of the ancilla when an economic implementation is not possible.

id: 1208.5605
title: Discording power of quantum evolutions
authors: F. Galve, F. Plastina, M. G. A. Paris, R. Zambrini
comments: accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 010501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5605
abstract: We introduce the discording power of a unitary transformation, which assesses its capability to produce quantum discord, and analyze in detail the generation of discord by relevant classes of two-qubit gates. Our measure is based on the Cartan decomposition of two-qubit unitaries and on evaluating the maximum discord achievable by a unitary upon acting on classical-classical states at fixed purity. We found that there exist gates which are perfect discorders for any value of purity, and that they belong to a class of operators that includes the $\sqrt{{SWAP}}. Other gates, even those universal for quantum computation, do not posses the same property: the CNOT, for example, is a perfect discorder only for states with low or unit purity, but not for intermediate values. The discording power of a two-qubit unitary also provides a generalization of the corresponding measure defined for entanglement to any value of the purity.

id: 1208.5632
title: Combining Bohm and Everett: Axiomatics for a Standalone Quantum Mechanics
authors: Kim Joris Bostr?m
comments: 36 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5632
abstract: A non-relativistic quantum mechanical theory is proposed that combines elements of Bohmian mechanics and of Everett's "many-worlds" interpretation. The resulting theory has the advantage of resolving known issues of both theories, as well as those of standard quantum mechanics. It has a clear ontology and a set of precisely defined postulates from where the predictions of standard quantum mechanics can be derived. Most importantly, the Born rule can be derived by straightforward application of the Laplacian rule, without reliance on a "quantum equilibrium hypothesis" that is crucial for Bohmian mechanics, and without reliance on a "branch weight" that is crucial for Everett-type theories. The theory describes a continuum of worlds rather than a single world or a discrete set of worlds, so it is similar in spirit to many-worlds interpretations based on Everett's approach, without being actually reducible to these. In particular, there is no "splitting of worlds", which is a typical feature of Everett-type theories. Altogether, the theory explains 1) the subjective occurrence of probabilities, 2) their quantitative value as given by the Born rule, 3) the identification of observables as self-adjoint operators on Hilbert space, and 4) the apparently random "collapse of the wavefunction" caused by the measurement, while still being an objectively deterministic theory.

id: 1208.5633
title: Directional emission of single photons from small atomic samples
authors: Yevhen Miroshnychenko, Uffe V. Poulsen, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5633
abstract: We provide a formalism to describe deterministic emission of single photons with tailored spatial and temporal profiles from a regular array of multi-level atoms. We assume that a single collective excitation is initially shared by all the atoms in a metastable atomic state, and that this state is coupled by a classical laser field to an optically excited state which rapidly decays to the ground atomic state. Our model accounts for the different field polarization components via re-absorption and emission of light by the Zeeman manifold of optically excited states.

id: 1208.5677
title: SU(3) Quantum Interferometry with single-photon input pulses
authors: Si-Hui Tan, Yvonne Y. Gao, Hubert de Guise, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 110(11), 113603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5677
abstract: We develop a framework for solving the action of a three-channel passive optical interferometer on single-photon pulse inputs to each channel using SU(3) group-theoretic methods, which can be readily generalized to higher-order photon-coincidence experiments. We show that features of the coincidence plots vs relative time delays of photons yield information about permanents, immanants, and determinants of the interferometer SU(3) matrix.

id: 1208.5681
title: Non-Markovian Dynamics of Spin Squeezing
authors: Peng Xue
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 377 (2013), pp. 1328-1332
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5681
abstract: We evaluate the spin squeezing dynamics of N independent spin-1/2 particles with exchange symmetry. Each spin interacts with its own reservoir, and the reservoirs are independently and identical. The spin squeezing parameter is analytically calculated with different kinds of decoherence. The spin squeezing property vanishes with evolution time under the Markovian decoherence. Whereas coupled to the non-Markovian decoherence channels, the spin squeezing property collapses and revives with time. As spin squeezing can be regarded as a witness of multipartite entanglement, thus our scheme shows the collapse and revival of multipartite entanglement under non-Markovian decoherence.

id: 1208.5695
title: Tomographic entropic inequalities in the probability representation of quantum mechanics
authors: Margarita A. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 9 pages; to be published in AIP Conference Proceedings as a contribution to the conference "Beauty in Physics: Theory and Experiment" (the Hacienda Cocoyoc, Morelos, Mexico, May 14--18, 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5695
abstract: A review of the tomographic-probability representation of classical and quantum states is presented. The tomographic entropies and entropic uncertainty relations are discussed in connection with ambiguities in the interpretation of the state tomograms which are considered either as a set of the probability distributions of random variables depending on extra parameters or as a single joint probability distribution of these random variables and random parameters with specific properties of the marginals. Examples of optical tomograms of photon states, symplectic tomograms, and unitary spin tomograms of qudits are given. A new universal integral inequality for generic wave function is obtained on the base of tomographic entropic uncertainty relations.

id: 1208.5705
title: Invariant Quantum Discord in Qubit-Qutrit Systems under Local Dephasing
authors: G. Karpat, Z. Gedik
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. Submitted to the proceedings of CEWQO-2012
journal: Phys. Scr. T 153 (2013) 014036
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5705
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of quantum discord and entanglement for a class of mixed qubit-qutrit states assuming that only the qutrit is under the action of a dephasing channel. We demonstrate that even though the entanglement in the qubit-qutrit state disappears in a finite time interval, partial coherence left in the system enables quantum discord to remain invariant throughout the whole time evolution.

id: 1208.5714
title: Measurement-based quantum computation cannot avoid byproducts
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 12, 1450026 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5714
abstract: Measurement-based quantum computation is a novel model of quantum computing where universal quantum computation can be done with only local measurements on each particle of a quantum many-body state, which is called a resource state. One large difference of the measurement-based model from the circuit model is the existence of byproducts. In the circuit model, a desired unitary U can be implemented deterministically, whereas the measurement-based model implements BU, where B is an additional operator, which is called a byproduct. In order to compensate byproducts, following measurement angles must be adjusted. Such a feed-forwarding requires some classical processing and tuning of the measurement device, which cause the delay of computation and the additional decoherence. Is there any byproduct-free resource state? Here we show that if we respect the no-signaling principle, which is one of the most fundamental principles of physics, no universal resource state can avoid byproducts.

id: 1208.5732
title: Optimal irreversible stimulated emission
authors: D Valente, Y Li, J P Poizat, J M Gerard, L C Kwek, M F Santos, A Auffeves
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 083029 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5732
abstract: We studied the dynamics of an initially inverted atom in a semi-infinite waveguide, in the presence of a single propagating photon. We show that atomic relaxation is enhanced by a factor of 2, leading to maximal bunching in the output field. This optimal irreversible stimulated emission is a novel phenomenon that can be observed with state-of-the-art solid-state atoms and waveguides. When the atom interacts with two one-dimensional electromagnetic environments, the preferential emission in the stimulated field can be exploited to efficiently amplify a classical or a quantum state.

id: 1208.5733
title: Objective uncertainty relation with classical background in a statistical model
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: 11 pages (accepted for publication in Physica A)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5733
abstract: We show within a statistical model of quantization reported in the previous work based on Hamilton-Jacobi theory with a random constraint that the statistics of fluctuations of the actual trajectories around the classical trajectories in velocity and position spaces satisfy a reciprocal uncertainty relation. The relation is objective (observation independent) and implies the standard quantum mechanical uncertainty relation.

id: 1208.5734
title: Classical and Quantum Discrete Dynamical Systems
authors: Vladimir V. Kornyak
comments: author's English translation added; 74 pages in English, 80 pages in Russian; English translation in Phys. Part. Nucl. ISSN 1063-7796 (2013) 44, No. 1, pp 47-91 was done without author's control; V3: Section 4 revised; V4: some corrections
journal: Phys. Part. Nucl. ISSN 0367-2026 (2013) 44, No. 1, pp 95-184 (Russian)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5734
abstract: We study deterministic and quantum dynamics from a constructive "finite" point of view, since the introduction of a continuum, or other actual infinities in physics poses serious conceptual and technical difficulties, without any need for these concepts to physics as an empirical science. For a consistent description of the symmetries of dynamical systems at different times and the symmetries of the various parts of such systems, we introduce discrete analogs of the gauge connections. Gauge structures are particularly important to describe the quantum behavior. We show that quantum behavior is the result of a fundamental inability to trace the identity of indistinguishable objects in the process of evolution. Information is available only on invariant statements and values, relating to such objects. Using mathematical arguments of a general nature we can show that any quantum dynamics can be reduced to a sequence of permutations. Quantum interferences occur in the invariant subspaces of permutation representations of symmetry groups of dynamical systems. The observable values can be expressed in terms of permutation invariants. We also show that for the description of quantum phenomena, instead of a nonconstructive number system --- the field of complex numbers, it is enough to use cyclotomic fields --- the minimal extentions of natural numbers suitable for quantum mechanics. Finite groups of symmetries play a central role in this article. The interest in such groups has an additional motivation in physics. Numerous experiments and observations in particle physics point to an important role of finite groups of relatively low orders in a number of fundamental processes.

id: 1208.5736
title: On unorthodox solutions of the Bloch equations
authors: Alexander Moroz
comments: 26 pages comprising 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5736
abstract: A systematic, rigorous, and complete investigation of the Bloch equations in time-harmonic driving classical field is performed. Our treatment is unique in that it takes full advantage of the partial fraction decomposition over real number field, which makes it possible to find and classify all analytic solutions. Torrey's analytic solution in the form of exponentially damped harmonic oscillations [Phys. Rev. {\bf 76}, 1059 (1949)] is found to dominate the parameter space, which justifies its use at numerous occasions in magnetic resonance and in quantum optics of atoms, molecules, and quantum dots. The unorthodox solutions of the Bloch equations, which do not have the form of exponentially damped harmonic oscillations, are confined to rather small detunings $\delta^2\lesssim (\gamma-\gamma_t)^2/27$ and small field strengths $\Omega^2\lesssim 8 (\gamma-\gamma_t)^2/27$, where $\gamma$ and $\gamma_t$ describe decay rates of the excited state (the total population relaxation rate) and of the coherence, respectively. The unorthodox solutions being readily accessible experimentally are characterized by rather featureless time dependence.

id: 1208.5741
title: GHZ paradoxes based on an even number of qubits
authors: Mordecai Waegell, P.K.Aravind
comments: Caption to Fig.1 has been expanded, as have explanatory footnotes in Refs.13 and 14, in response to reviewer comments
journal: Physics Letters A377, 546-9 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5741
abstract: GHZ paradoxes are presented for all even numbers of qubits from four up. They are obtained from proofs of the Kochen-Specker (KS) theorem by showing how the assumption of noncontextuality can be justified on the basis of locality. The nature of the entangled states involved in our paradoxes is discussed. Some multiqubit proofs of the KS theorem are also presented in the form of diagrams from which they are visually obvious. The implications of our results are discussed.

id: 1208.5758
title: Achieving minimum-error discrimination of an arbitrary set of laser-light pulses
authors: Marcus P. da Silva, Saikat Guha, Zachary Dutton
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures; v2 Minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052320 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5758
abstract: Laser light is widely used for communication and sensing applications, so the optimal discrimination of coherent states--the quantum states of light emitted by a laser--has immense practical importance. However, quantum mechanics imposes a fundamental limit on how well different coher- ent states can be distinguished, even with perfect detectors, and limits such discrimination to have a finite minimum probability of error. While conventional optical receivers lead to error rates well above this fundamental limit, Dolinar found an explicit receiver design involving optical feedback and photon counting that can achieve the minimum probability of error for discriminating any two given coherent states. The generalization of this construction to larger sets of coherent states has proven to be challenging, evidencing that there may be a limitation inherent to a linear-optics-based adaptive measurement strategy. In this Letter, we show how to achieve optimal discrimination of any set of coherent states using a resource-efficient quantum computer. Our construction leverages a recent result on discriminating multi-copy quantum hypotheses (arXiv:1201.6625) and properties of coherent states. Furthermore, our construction is reusable, composable, and applicable to designing quantum-limited processing of coherent-state signals to optimize any metric of choice. As illustrative examples, we analyze the performance of discriminating a ternary alphabet, and show how the quantum circuit of a receiver designed to discriminate a binary alphabet can be reused in discriminating multimode hypotheses. Finally, we show our result can be used to achieve the quantum limit on the rate of classical information transmission on a lossy optical channel, which is known to exceed the Shannon rate of all conventional optical receivers.

id: 1208.5764
title: Electronic Spin: Abstract Mathematical or Real Physical Phenomenon
authors: S. K. Pandey
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5764
abstract: In the description of electron spin obtained through the conventional Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics, the concrete picture of rotation was replaced by an abstract mathematical representation; visualization or visualisability was entirely lost. The work described here takes a step towards restoring this.

id: 1208.5791
title: Review of Decoherence Free Subspaces, Noiseless Subsystems, and Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 34 pages, 4 figures. Based on lecture notes from a course on quantum error correction given by the author at USC in Spring 2007 and Fall 2011, 2013. Prepared for a special issue of Adv. Chem. Phys. on Quantum Information and Computation for Chemistry. v3: some parts rewritten for clarity, various corrections
journal: Adv. Chem. Phys. 154, 295-354 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5791
abstract: Quantum information requires protection from the adverse affects of decoherence and noise. This review provides an introduction to the theory of decoherence-free subspaces, noiseless subsystems, and dynamical decoupling. It addresses quantum information preservation as well protected computation.

id: 1208.5808
title: Nature of light correlations in ghost imaging
authors: Sammy Ragy, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures. To appear in Scientific Reports (NPG)
journal: Scientific Reports 2, 651 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5808
abstract: We investigate the nature of correlations in Gaussian light sources used for ghost imaging. We adopt methods from quantum information theory to distinguish genuinely quantum from classical correlations. Combining a microscopic analysis of speckle-speckle correlations with an effective coarse-grained description of the beams, we show that quantum correlations exist even in `classical'-like thermal light sources, and appear relevant for the implementation of ghost imaging in the regime of low illumination. We further demonstrate that the total correlations in the thermal source beams effectively determine the quality of the imaging, as quantified by the signal-to-noise ratio.

id: 1208.5817
title: Universal optimal broadband photon cloning and entanglement creation in one dimensional atoms
authors: D. Valente, Y. Li, J. P. Poizat, J. M. Gerard, L. C. Kwek, M. F. Santos, A. Auffeves
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022333 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5817
abstract: We study an initially inverted three-level atom in the lambda configuration embedded in a waveguide, interacting with a propagating single-photon pulse. Depending on the temporal shape of the pulse, the system behaves either as an optimal universal cloning machine, or as a highly efficient deterministic source of maximally entangled photon pairs. This quantum transistor operates over a wide range of frequencies, and can be implemented with today's solid-state technologies.

id: 1208.5821
title: Optically mediated nonlinear quantum optomechanics
authors: H. Seok, L. F. Buchmann, S. Singh, P. Meystre
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 063829 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5821
abstract: We consider theoretically the optomechanical interaction of several mechanical modes with a single quantized cavity field mode for linear and quadratic coupling. We focus specifically on situations where the optical dissipation is the dominant source of damping, in which case the optical field can be adiabatically eliminated, resulting in effective multimode interactions between the mechanical modes. In the case of linear coupling, the coherent contribution to the interaction can be exploited e.g. in quantum state swapping protocols, while the incoherent part leads to significant modifications of cold damping or amplification from the single-mode situation. Quadratic coupling can result in a wealth of possible effective interactions including the analogs of second-harmonic generation and four-wave mixing in nonlinear optics, with specific forms depending sensitively on the sign of the coupling. The cavity-mediated mechanical interaction of two modes is investigated in two limiting cases, the resolved sideband and the Doppler regime. As an illustrative application of the formal analysis we discuss in some detail a two-mode system where a Bose-Einstein condensate is optomechanically linearly coupled to the moving end mirror of a Fabry-P\'erot cavity.

id: 1208.5827
title: Fundamental Security Issues in Continuous Variable Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5827
abstract: Several fundamental issues in establishing security in continuous variable quantum key distribution are discussed, in particular on reverse reconciliation and security under heterodyne attack. It appears di?cult to derive quantum advantage in a concrete realistic protocol due to source and loss uncertainties, apart from the problem of bounding Eve's information after reconciliation. The necessity of proving robust security for QKD protocols is indicated.

id: 1208.5833
title: Electronic Energy Transfer: Localized Operator Partitioning of Electronic Energy in Composite Quantum Systems
authors: Yaser R. Khan, Paul Brumer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5833
abstract: A Hamiltonian based approach using spatially localized projection operators is introduced to give precise meaning to the chemically intuitive idea of the electronic energy on a quantum subsystem. This definition facilitates the study of electronic energy transfer in arbitrarily coupled quantum systems. In particular, the decomposition scheme can be applied to molecular components that are strongly interacting (with significant orbital overlap) as well as to isolated fragments. The result leads to the proper electronic energy at all internuclear distances, including the case of separated fragments, and reduces to the well-known Forster and Dexter results in their respective limits. Numerical calculations of coherent energy and charge transfer dynamics in simple model systems are presented and the effect of collisionally induced decoherence is examined.

id: 1208.5881
title: Heralded Noiseless Amplification of a Photon Polarization Qubit
authors: S. Kocsis, G. Y. Xiang, T. C. Ralph, G. J. Pryde
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Physics 9, 23 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5881
abstract: Non-deterministic noiseless amplification of a single mode can circumvent the unique challenges to amplifying a quantum signal, such as the no-cloning theorem, and the minimum noise cost for deterministic quantum state amplification. However, existing devices are not suitable for amplifying the fundamental optical quantum information carrier, a qubit coherently encoded across two optical modes. Here, we construct a coherent two-mode amplifier, to demonstrate the first heralded noiseless linear amplification of a qubit encoded in the polarization state of a single photon. In doing so, we increase the transmission fidelity of a realistic qubit channel by up to a factor of five. Qubit amplifiers promise to extend the range of secure quantum communication and other quantum information science and technology protocols.

id: 1208.5918
title: Uncertainty relations for multiple measurements with applications
authors: Omar Fawzi
comments: PhD Thesis, McGill University, School of Computer Science, 158 pages. Contains arXiv:1010.3007 and arXiv:1111.2026 with some small additions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5918
abstract: Uncertainty relations express the fundamental incompatibility of certain observables in quantum mechanics. Far from just being puzzling constraints on our ability to know the state of a quantum system, uncertainty relations are at the heart of why some classically impossible cryptographic primitives become possible when quantum communication is allowed. This thesis is concerned with strong notions of uncertainty relations and their applications in quantum information theory. One operational manifestation of such uncertainty relations is a purely quantum effect referred to as information locking. A locking scheme can be viewed as a cryptographic protocol in which a uniformly random n-bit message is encoded in a quantum system using a classical key of size much smaller than n. Without the key, no measurement of this quantum state can extract more than a negligible amount of information about the message, in which case the message is said to be "locked". Furthermore, knowing the key, it is possible to recover, that is "unlock", the message. We give new efficient constructions of bases satisfying strong uncertainty relations leading to the first explicit construction of an information locking scheme. We also give several other applications of our uncertainty relations both to cryptographic and communication tasks. In addition, we define objects called QC-extractors, that can be seen as strong uncertainty relations that hold against quantum adversaries. We provide several constructions of QC-extractors, and use them to prove the security of cryptographic protocols for two-party computations based on the sole assumption that the parties' storage device is limited in transmitting quantum information. In doing so, we resolve a central question in the so-called noisy-storage model by relating security to the quantum capacity of storage devices.

id: 1208.5942
title: Cooling the motion of a trapped atom with a cavity field
authors: Marc Bienert, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5942
abstract: We theoretically analyze the cooling dynamics of an atom which is tightly trapped inside a high-finesse optical resonator. Cooling is achieved by suitably tailored scattering processes, in which the atomic dipole transition either scatters a cavity photon into the electromagnetic field external to the resonator, or performs a stimulated emission into the cavity mode, which then dissipates via the cavity mirrors. We identify the parameter regimes in which the atom center-of-mass motion can be cooled into the ground state of the external trap. We predict, in particular, that for high cooperativities interference effects mediated by the atomic transition may lead to higher efficiencies. The dynamics is compared with the cooling dynamics of a trapped atom inside a resonator studied in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 143001, (2005)] where the atom, instead of the cavity, is driven by a laser field.

id: 1208.5964
title: Theoretical insights on measuring quantum correlations
authors: Davide Girolami, Ruggero Vasile, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures; to appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, special issue "Classical vs quantum correlations in composite systems" edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin, and V. Vedral
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1345020 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5964
abstract: We review a recently developed theoretical approach to the experimental detection and quantification of bipartite quantum correlations between a qubit and a d dimensional system. Specifically, introducing a properly designed measure Q, the presented scheme allows us to quantify general quantum correlations for arbitrary states of 2 x d systems without the need to fully reconstruct them by tomographic techniques. We take in exam the specifics of the required experimental architecture in nuclear magnetic resonance and optical settings. Finally we extend this approach to models of open system dynamics and discuss possible advantages and limitations in such a context.

id: 1208.5985
title: Bosonic behavior of entangled fermions
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Peter Alexander Bouvrie, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042317 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5985
abstract: Two bound, entangled fermions form a composite boson, which can be treated as an elementary boson as long as the Pauli principle does not affect the behavior of many such composite bosons. The departure of ideal bosonic behavior is quantified by the normalization ratio of multi-composite-boson states. We derive the two-fermion-states that extremize the normalization ratio for a fixed single-fermion purity P, and establish general tight bounds for this indicator. For very small purities, P<1/N^2, the upper and lower bounds converge, which allows to quantify accurately the departure from perfectly bosonic behavior, for any state of many composite bosons.

id: 1208.5986
title: The Bravyi-Kitaev transformation for quantum computation of electronic structure
authors: Jacob T. Seeley, Martin J. Richard, Peter J. Love
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5986
abstract: Quantum simulation is an important application of future quantum computers with applications in quantum chemistry, condensed matter, and beyond. Quantum simulation of fermionic systems presents a specific challenge. The Jordan-Wigner transformation allows for representation of a fermionic operator by O(n) qubit operations. Here we develop an alternative method of simulating fermions with qubits, first proposed by Bravyi and Kitaev [S. B. Bravyi, A.Yu. Kitaev, Annals of Physics 298, 210-226 (2002)], that reduces the simulation cost to O(log n) qubit operations for one fermionic operation. We apply this new Bravyi-Kitaev transformation to the task of simulating quantum chemical Hamiltonians, and give a detailed example for the simplest possible case of molecular hydrogen in a minimal basis. We show that the quantum circuit for simulating a single Trotter time-step of the Bravyi-Kitaev derived Hamiltonian for H2 requires fewer gate applications than the equivalent circuit derived from the Jordan-Wigner transformation. Since the scaling of the Bravyi-Kitaev method is asymptotically better than the Jordan-Wigner method, this result for molecular hydrogen in a minimal basis demonstrates the superior efficiency of the Bravyi-Kitaev method for all quantum computations of electronic structure.

id: 1208.6039
title: Codeword stabilized quantum codes on subsystems
authors: Jeonghwan Shin, Jun Heo, Todd A. Brun
comments: 6 pages, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042318 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6039
abstract: Codeword stabilized quantum codes provide a unified approach to constructing quantum error-correcting codes, including both additive and non-additive quantum codes. Standard codeword stabilized quantum codes encode quantum information into subspaces. The more general notion of encoding quantum information into a subsystem is known as an operator (or subsystem) quantum error correcting code. Most operator codes studied to date are based in the usual stabilizer formalism. We introduce operator quantum codes based on the codeword stabilized quantum code framework. Based on the necessary and sufficient conditions for operator quantum error correction, we derive a error correction condition for operator codeword stabilized quantum codes. Based on this condition, the word operators of a operator codeword stabilized quantum code are constructed from a set of classical binary errors induced by generators of the gauge group. We use this scheme to construct examples of both additive and non-additive codes that encode quantum information into a subsystem.

id: 1208.6043
title: A quasi-analytical modal approach for computing Casimir interactions in periodic nanostructures
authors: F. Intravaia, P.S. Davids, R.S. Decca, V.A. Aksyuk, D. Lopez, D.A.R. Dalvit
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6043
abstract: We present an almost fully analytical technique for computing Casimir interactions between periodic lamellar gratings based on a modal approach. Our method improves on previous work on Casimir modal approaches for nanostructures by using the exact form of the eigenvectors of such structures, and computing eigenvalues by solving numerically a simple transcendental equation. In some cases eigenvalues can be solved for exactly, such as the zero frequency limit of gratings modeled by a Drude permittivity. Our technique also allows us to predict analytically the behavior of the Casimir interaction in limiting cases, such as the large separation asymptotics. The method can be generalized to more complex grating structures, and may provide a deeper understanding of the geometry-composition-temperature interplay in Casimir forces between nanostructures.

id: 1208.6049
title: Mixed state Pauli channel parameter estimation
authors: David Collins
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6049
abstract: The accuracy of any physical scheme used to estimate the parameter describing the strength of a single qubit Pauli channel can be quantified using standard techniques from quantum estimation theory. It is known that the optimal estimation scheme, with m channel invocations, uses initial states for the systems which are pure and unentangled and provides an uncertainty of O[1/m^(1/2)]. This protocol is analogous to a classical repetition and averaging scheme. We consider estimation schemes where the initial states available are not pure and compare a protocol involving quantum correlated states to independent state protocols analogous to classical repetition schemes. We show, that unlike the pure state case, the quantum correlated state protocol can yield greater estimation accuracy than any independent state protocol. We show that these gains persist even when the system states are separable and, in some cases, when quantum discord is absent after channel invocation. We describe the relevance of these protocols to nuclear magnetic resonance measurements.

id: 1208.6053
title: Few-photon single-atom cavity QED with input-output formalism in Fock Space
authors: Eden Rephaeli, Shanhui Fan
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6053
abstract: The Jaynes-Cummings (JC) system, which describes the interaction between a cavity and a two-level atom, is one of the most important systems in quantum optics. We obtain analytic solutions for the one- and two-photon transport in a waveguide side-coupled to the JC system using input-output formalism in Fock space. With these results, we discuss the conditions under which the JC system functions as a photon switch for waveguide photons in both the strong and weak coupling regimes

id: 1208.6061
title: Robust Stability of Quantum Systems with a Nonlinear Coupling Operator
authors: Ian R. Petersen, Valery Ugrinovskii, Matthew R. James
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1203.2676
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6061
abstract: This paper considers the problem of robust stability for a class of uncertain quantum systems subject to unknown perturbations in the system coupling operator. A general stability result is given for a class of perturbations to the system coupling operator. Then, the special case of a nominal linear quantum system is considered with non-linear perturbations to the system coupling operator. In this case, a robust stability condition is given in terms of a scaled strict bounded real condition.

id: 1208.6092
title: One-Way Reversible and Quantum Finite Automata with Advice
authors: Tomoyuki Yamakami
comments: A4, 10pt, 1 figure, 31 pages. This is a complete version of an extended abstract appeared in the Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Language and Automata Theory and Applications (LATA 2012), March 5-9, 2012, A Coruna, Spain, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Springer-Verlag, Vol.7183, pp.526-537, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6092
abstract: We examine the characteristic features of reversible and quantum computations in the presence of supplementary external information, known as advice. In particular, we present a simple, algebraic characterization of languages recognized by one-way reversible finite automata augmented with deterministic advice. With a further elaborate argument, we prove a similar but slightly weaker result for bounded-error one-way quantum finite automata with advice. Immediate applications of those properties lead to containments and separations among various language families when they are assisted by appropriately chosen advice. We further demonstrate the power and limitation of randomized advice and quantum advice when they are given to one-way quantum finite automata.

id: 1208.6101
title: Non-divisiblity and non-Markovianity in a Gaussian dissipative dynamics
authors: Fabio Benatti, Roberto Floreanini, Stefano Olivares
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376, 2951-2954 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6101
abstract: We study a stochastic Schroedinger equation that generates a family of Gaussian dynamical maps in one dimension permitting a detailed exam of two different definitions of non-Markovianity: one related to the explicit dependence of the generator on the starting time, the other to the non-divisibility of the time-evolution maps. The model shows instances where one has non-Markovianity in both senses and cases when one has Markovianity in the second sense but not in the first one.

id: 1208.6155
title: Singular Perturbation Approximations for General Linear Quantum Systems
authors: Shanon L. Vuglar, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 7 pages,1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6155
abstract: This paper considers the use of singular perturbation approximations for general linear quantum systems where the system dynamics are described in terms of both annihilation and creation operators. Results that are related to the physical realizability property of the approximate system are presented.

id: 1208.6185
title: Engineering entanglement mechanically
authors: Muhammad Asjad, Farhan Saif
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 376, 2608 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6185
abstract: We propose entanglement for hybrid optomechanical system consisting of Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) inside a single-mode high-Q Fabry-Perot cavity with a vibrating end mirror (mechanical mirror). The intracavity field couples the vibrating end mirror with collective atomic density of the BEC. We show that the radiation pressure generates the stationary entanglement of three bipartite subsystems, i.e, field-mechanical mirror, field-BEC and mechanical mirror-atoms. The resulting entanglement is fragile with respect to temperature.

id: 1208.6186
title: The Limits of Entanglement
authors: Chad Orzel
comments: Submitted to Am. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6186
abstract: Quantum entanglement is one of the most intriguing phenomena in physics, but many presentations of the subject leave a false impression that it provides a sort of "remote control" for changing the state of a distant particle by local manipulation of its entangled partner. We discuss a simple example, suitable for undergraduate quantum mechanics classes, showing that this is false, and demonstrating the limits of entanglement.

id: 1208.6222
title: Experimental Observation of Quantum Correlations in Modular Variables
authors: M. A. D. Carvalho, J. Ferraz, G. F. Borges, P. L. de Assis, S. P¨¢dua, S. P. Walborn
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6222
abstract: We experimentally detect entanglement in modular position and momentum variables of photon pairs which have passed through $D$-slit apertures. We first employ an entanglement criteria recently proposed in [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 106}, 210501 (2011)], using variances of the modular variables. We then propose an entanglement witness for modular variables based on the Shannon entropy, and test it experimentally. Finally, we derive criteria for Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Steering correlations using variances and entropy functions. In both cases, the entropic criteria are more successful at identifying quantum correlations in our data.

id: 1208.6249
title: An improved two-way continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocol with added noise in homodyne detection
authors: Maozhu Sun, Xiang Peng, Hong Guo
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 085501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6249
abstract: We propose an improved two-way continuous-variable quantum key distribution (CV QKD) protocol by adding proper random noise on the receiver's homodyne detection, the security of which is analysed against general collective attacks. The simulation result under the collective entangling cloner attack indicates that despite the correlation between two-way channels decreasing the secret key rate relative to the uncorrelated channels slightly, the performance of the two-way protocol is still far beyond that of the one-way protocols. Importantly, the added noise in detection is beneficial for the secret key rate and the tolerable excess noise of this two-way protocol. With the reasonable reconciliation efficiency of 90%, the two-way CV QKD with added noise allows the distribution of secret keys over 60 km fibre distance.

id: 1208.6260
title: Trajectory-based Theory of Relativistic Quantum Particles
authors: Bill Poirier
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6260
abstract: Recently, a self-contained trajectory-based formulation of non-relativistic quantum mechanics was developed [Ann. Phys. 315, 505 (2005); Chem. Phys. 370, 4 (2010); J. Chem. Phys. 136, 031102 (2012)], that makes no use of wavefunctions or complex amplitudes of any kind. Quantum states are represented as ensembles of real-valued quantum trajectories that extremize a suitable action. Here, the trajectory-based approach is developed into a viable, generally covariant, relativistic quantum theory for single (spin-zero, massive) particles. Central to this development is the introduction of a new notion of global simultaneity for accelerated particles--together with basic postulates concerning probability conservation and causality. The latter postulate is found to be violated by the Klein-Gordon equation, leading to its well-known problems as a single-particle theory. Various examples are considered, including the time evolution of a relativistic Gaussian wavepacket.

id: 1208.6283
title: Quantum realism and quantum surrealism
authors: Mateus Ara¨²jo
comments: 68 pages, 8 figures. Master's thesis presented at UFMG in June, 2012. v2: corrected mistakes, updated references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6283
abstract: In this thesis we explore the questions of what should be considered a "classical" theory, and which aspects of quantum theory cannot be captured by any theory that respects our intuition of classicality. This exploration is divided in two parts: in the first we review classical results of the literature, such as the Kochen-Specker theorem, von Neumann's theorem, Gleason's theorem, as well as more recent ideas, such as the distinction between $\psi$-ontic and $\psi$-epistemic ontological models, Spekkens' definition of contextuality, Hardy's ontological excess baggage theorem and the PBR theorem. The second part is concerned with pinning down what should be the "correct" definition of contextuality. We settle down on the definition advocated by Abramsky and Branderburger, motivated by the Fine theorem, and show the connection of this definition with the work of George Boole. This definition allows us to unify the notions of locality and noncontextuality, and use largely the same tools to characterize how quantum mechanics violates these notions of classicality. Exploring this formalism, we find a new family of noncontextuality inequalities. We conclude by reviewing the notion of state-independent contextuality.

id: 1208.6371
title: Unification and limitations of error suppression techniques for adiabatic quantum computing
authors: Kevin C. Young, Mohan Sarovar
comments: 9 pages. Update replaces "Equivalence" with "Unification." This manuscript has been superseded by the two-article series: arXiv:1307.5892 and arXiv:1307.5893
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 041013 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6371
abstract: While adiabatic quantum computation (AQC) possesses some intrinsic robustness to noise, it is expected that a form of error control will be necessary for large scale computations. Error control ideas developed for circuit-model quantum computation do not transfer easily to the AQC model and to date there have been two main proposals to suppress errors during an AQC implementation: energy gap protection and dynamical decoupling. Here we show that these two methods are fundamentally related and may be analyzed within the same formalism. We analyze the effectiveness of such error suppression techniques and identify critical constraints on the performance of error suppression in AQC, suggesting that error suppression by itself is insufficient for fault-tolerant, large-scale AQC and that a form of error correction is needed. This manuscript has been superseded by the articles, "Error suppression and error correction in adiabatic quantum computation I: techniques and challenges," arXiv:1307.5893, and "Error suppression and error correction in adiabatic quantum computation II: non-equilibrium dynamics," arXiv:1307.5892.

id: 1208.6434
title: WKB analysis of relativistic Stern-Gerlach measurements
authors: Matthew C. Palmer, Maki Takahashi, Hans F. Westman
comments: 13 pages, no figures. Comments welcome
journal: Annals of Physics 336 (2013) pp. 505-516
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6434
abstract: Spin is an important quantum degree of freedom in relativistic quantum information theory. This paper provides a first-principles derivation of the observable corresponding to a Stern-Gerlach measurement with relativistic particle velocity. The specific mathematical form of the Stern-Gerlach operator is established using the transformation properties of the electromagnetic field. To confirm that this is indeed the correct operator we provide a detailed analysis of the Stern-Gerlach measurement process. We do this by applying a WKB approximation to the minimally coupled Dirac equation describing an interaction between a massive fermion and an electromagnetic field. Making use of the superposition principle we show that the +1 and -1 spin eigenstates of the proposed spin operator are split into separate packets due to the inhomogeneity of the Stern-Gerlach magnetic field. The operator we obtain is dependent on the momentum between particle and Stern-Gerlach apparatus, and is mathematically distinct from two other commonly used operators. The consequences for quantum tomography are considered.

id: 1208.6490
title: Probing quantum coherence in qubit arrays
authors: J. Almeida, P. C. de Groot, S. F. Huelga, A. M. Liguori, M. B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 104002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6490
abstract: We discuss how the observation of population localization effects in periodically driven systems can be used to quantify the presence of quantum coherence in interacting qubit arrays. Essential for our proposal is the fact that these localization effects persist beyond tight-binding Hamiltonian models. This result is of special practical relevance in those situations where direct system probing using tomographic schemes becomes infeasible beyond a very small number of qubits. As a proof of principle, we study analytically a Hamiltonian system consisting of a chain of superconducting flux qubits under the effect of a periodic driving. We provide extensive numerical support of our results in the simple case of a two-qubits chain. For this system we also study the robustness of the scheme against different types of noise and disorder. We show that localization effects underpinned by quantum coherent interactions should be observable within realistic parameter regimes in chains with a larger number of

id: 1208.6529
title: 1/2+1/2>1 for quantum error correction
authors: Zhuo Wang, Sixia Yu, Heng Fan, C.H. Oh
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6529
abstract: Quantum error correction assisted by entanglement helps to transmit the encoded qudits through quantum channels with some of them being noiseless. Here we consider a more realistic scheme for experiments what we called as partial-noisy quantum channels in which, instead of completely free of noise, only part of the qudit suffers no noise. In this scenario we show by an explicit example that two half-noisy channels work better than one noiseless channel, a queer phenomenon showing 1/2+1/2>1. Our example also saturates a unified quantum Singleton bound, valid for the standard and entanglement-assisted codes as well. Furthermore, as illustrated by a mixed-alphabet code with half-noisy channels, a higher dimensional physical qudit can so improve the performance of a partial-noisy channel that it even outperforms a noiseless channel.

id: 1208.6532
title: Operational approach to the entanglement
authors: Marian Kupczynski
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6532
abstract: In early days of quantum theory it was believed that the results of measurements performed on two distant physical systems should be uncorrelated thus their quantum state should be separable it means described by a simple tensor product of the individual local state vectors or a tensor product of individual local density operators. It was shown many years ago by EPR that two systems which interacted in the past and separated afterwards had to be described in most cases by particular non-separable states which are called entangled. It was noticed by Zanardi et al. that a Hilbert space of possible state vectors of compound physical system could be partitioned in different way by introducing various tensor product structures induced by the experimentally accessible observables (interactions and measurements). Therefore a separable state in one partition could become entangled in different partition. In this sense the entanglement was relative to a particular set of experimental capabilities. Continuing this line of thought Torre et al. claimed to prove that for any separable state there existed strongly correlated physical observables therefore all quantum states were entangled. The same claims one may find in several recent papers. In this paper we will discuss in operational way the differences existing between separable, non-separable and entangled states and we will show that the conclusions of Torre et al. were unjustified. A sufficient condition for entanglement is the violation of BI-CHSH and/or steering inequalities. Since there exist experiments outside the quantum physics violating these inequalities therefore in the operational approach one cannot say that the entanglement is an exclusive quantum phenomenon.

id: 1208.6535
title: Genuine Multiparty Quantum Entanglement Suppresses Multiport Classical Information Transmission
authors: R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 5 (+ epsilon) pages, 2 figures, Revtex4-1; v2: Theorem 3 extended to all states, other results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042329 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6535
abstract: We establish a universal complementarity relation between the capacity of classical information transmission by employing a multiparty quantum state as a multiport quantum channel, and the genuine multipartite entanglement of the quantum state. The classical information transfer is from a sender to several receivers by using the quantum dense coding protocol with the multiparty quantum state shared between the sender and the receivers. The relation holds for arbitrary pure or mixed quantum states of an arbitrary number of parties in arbitrary dimensions.

id: 1208.6560
title: Cavity optomechanics with Si3N4 membranes at cryogenic temperatures
authors: T. P. Purdy, R. W. Peterson, P.-L. Yu, C. A. Regal
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 115021 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6560
abstract: We describe a cryogenic cavity-optomechanical system that combines Si3N4 membranes with a mechanically-rigid Fabry-Perot cavity. The extremely high quality-factor frequency products of the membranes allow us to cool a MHz mechanical mode to a phonon occupation of less than 10, starting at a bath temperature of 5 kelvin. We show that even at cold temperatures thermally-occupied mechanical modes of the cavity elements can be a limitation, and we discuss methods to reduce these effects sufficiently to achieve ground state cooling. This promising new platform should have versatile uses for hybrid devices and searches for radiation pressure shot noise.

id: 1208.6586
title: Entanglement Measures for Single- and Multi-Reference Correlation Effects
authors: Katharina Boguslawski, Pawe? Tecmer, ?rs Legeza, Markus Reiher
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. Chem. Lett., 2012, 3 (21), 3129-3135
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6586
abstract: Electron correlation effects are essential for an accurate ab initio description of molecules. A quantitative a priori knowledge of the single- or multi-reference nature of electronic structures as well as of the dominant contributions to the correlation energy can facilitate the decision regarding the optimum quantum chemical method of choice. We propose concepts from quantum information theory as orbital entanglement measures that allow us to evaluate the single- and multi-reference character of any molecular structure in a given orbital basis set. By studying these measures we can detect possible artifacts of small active spaces.

id: 1208.0046
title: Sisyphus Cooling of Electrically Trapped Polyatomic Molecules
authors: M. Zeppenfeld, B.G.U. Englert, R. Gl?ckner, A. Prehn, M. Mielenz, C. Sommer, L.D. van Buuren, M. Motsch, G. Rempe
comments: 
journal: Nature 491, 570 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0046
abstract: The rich internal structure and long-range dipole-dipole interactions establish polar molecules as unique instruments for quantum-controlled applications and fundamental investigations. Their potential fully unfolds at ultracold temperatures, where a plethora of effects is predicted in many-body physics, quantum information science, ultracold chemistry, and physics beyond the standard model. These objectives have inspired the development of a wide range of methods to produce cold molecular ensembles. However, cooling polyatomic molecules to ultracold temperatures has until now seemed intractable. Here we report on the experimental realization of opto-electrical cooling, a paradigm-changing cooling and accumulation method for polar molecules. Its key attribute is the removal of a large fraction of a molecule's kinetic energy in each step of the cooling cycle via a Sisyphus effect, allowing cooling with only few dissipative decay processes. We demonstrate its potential by reducing the temperature of about 10^6 trapped CH_3F molecules by a factor of 13.5, with the phase-space density increased by a factor of 29 or a factor of 70 discounting trap losses. In contrast to other cooling mechanisms, our scheme proceeds in a trap, cools in all three dimensions, and works for a large variety of polar molecules. With no fundamental temperature limit anticipated down to the photon-recoil temperature in the nanokelvin range, our method eliminates the primary hurdle in producing ultracold polyatomic molecules. The low temperatures, large molecule numbers and long trapping times up to 27 s will allow an interaction-dominated regime to be attained, enabling collision studies and investigation of evaporative cooling toward a BEC of polyatomic molecules.

id: 1208.0056
title: BRST cohomology of systems with secondary constraints
authors: Alicia Lopez, Alice Rogers
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0056
abstract: Extending phase space to include time and it canonical conjugate energy as well as the usual momentum and position variables, and then introducing the constraint which sets energy equal to the Hamiltonian, gives a symplectic action of the additive group R which corresponds to time translation along the solutions to the equations of motion. This allows the BRST operator of a system with secondary constraints to be constructed from first principles.

id: 1208.0118
title: Electromagnetic induced transparency and slow light in interacting quantum degenerate atomic gases
authors: H. H. Jen, Bo Xiong, Ite A. Yu, Daw-Wei Wang
comments: 7 figures
journal: JOSA B Vol. 30, Iss. 11, pp. 2855 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0118
abstract: We systematically develop the full quantum theory for the electromagnetic induced transparency (EIT) and slow light properties in ultracold Bose and Fermi gases. It shows a very different property from the classical theory which assumes frozen atomic motion. For example, the speed of light inside the atomic gases can be changed dramatically near the Bose-Einstein condensation temperature, while the presence of the Fermi sea can destroy the EIT effect even at zero temperature. From experimental point of view, such quantum EIT property is mostly manifested in the counter-propagating excitation schemes in either the low-lying Rydberg transition with a narrow line width or in the D2 transitions with a very weak coupling field. We further investigate the interaction effects on the EIT for a weakly interacting Bose-Einstein condensate, showing an inhomogeneous broadening of the EIT profile and nontrivial change of the light speed due to the quantum many-body effects beyond mean field energy shifts.

id: 1208.0173
title: Unitary quantum phase operators for bosons and fermions: A model study on quantum phases of interacting particles in a symmetric double-well potential
authors: Biswajit Das, Bitan Ghosal, Subhasish Dutta Gupta, Bimalendu Deb
comments: 22 pages 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. vol.46, pp.035501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0173
abstract: We introduce unitary quantum phase operators for material particles. We carry out a model study on quantum phases of interacting bosons in a symmetric double-well potential in terms of unitary and commonly-used non-unitary phase operators and compare the results for different number of bosons. We find that the results for unitary quantum phase operators are significantly different from those for non-unitary ones especially in the case of low number of bosons. We introduce unitary operators corresponding to the quantum phase-difference between two single-particle states of fermions. As an application of fermionic phase operators, we study a simple model of a pair of interacting two-component fermions in a symmetric double-well potential. We also investigate quantum phase and number fluctuations to ascertain number-phase uncertainty in terms of unitary phase operators.

id: 1208.0217
title: Switching the Anomalous DC Response of an AC-driven Quantum Many-body system
authors: Arnab Das, R. Moessner
comments: 4+ pages, 3 Figs
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0217
abstract: For a class of integrable quantum many-body systems, symmetric AC driving can generically produce a steady DC response. We show how such dynamical freezing can be switched off, not by forcing the system to follow the (arbitrarily fast) driving field, but rather through a much slower but complete oscillation of each individual mode of the system at a frequency of its own, with the slowest mode exhibiting a divergent period. This switching can be controlled in detail, its sharpness depending on a particular parameter of the Hamiltonian. The phenomenon has a robust manifestation even in the few-body limit, perhaps the most promising setting for realisation within existing frameworks.

id: 1208.0363
title: Rotational excitations of polar molecules on an optical lattice: from novel exciton physics to quantum simulation of new lattice models
authors: Marina Litinskaya, Roman V. Krems
comments: 28 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0363
abstract: Ultracold polar molecules trapped on an optical lattice is a many-body system that, under appropriate conditions, may support collective excitations reminiscent of excitons in solid state crystals. Here, we discuss the rotational excitations of molecules on an optical lattice leading to rotational Frenkel excitons. Apart from solid hydrogen, there is no other natural system that exhibits rotational excitons. The rotational excitons have unique properties that can be exploited for tuning non-linear exciton interactions and exciton-impurity scattering by applying an external electric field. We show that this can be used to explore the competing role of the dynamical and kinematic exciton-exciton interactions in excitonic energy transfer and to study quantum localization in a dynamically tunable disordered potential. The rotational excitons can also be used as a basis for quantum simulation of condensed matter models that cannot be realized with ultracold atoms. As an example, we discuss the possibility of engineering the Holstein model with polar molecules on an optical lattice.

id: 1208.0430
title: Far-field emission profiles from L3 photonic crystal cavity modes
authors: Cristian Bonato, Jenna Hagemeier, Dario Gerace, Susanna M. Thon, Hyochul Kim, Lucio C. Andreani, Pierre M. Petroff, Martin P. van Exter, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0430
abstract: We experimentally characterize the spatial far-field emission profiles for the two lowest confined modes of a photonic crystal cavity of the L3 type, finding a good agreement with FDTD simulations. We then link the far-field profiles to relevant features of the cavity mode near-fields, using a simple Fabry-Perot resonator model. The effect of disorder on far-field cavity profiles is clarified through comparison between experiments and simulations. These results can be useful for emission engineering from active centers embedded in the cavity.

id: 1208.0461
title: Quantum optical effective-medium theory for loss-compensated metamaterials
authors: Ehsan Amooghorban, N. Asger Mortensen, Martijn Wubs
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Accepted for Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 153602 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0461
abstract: A central aim in metamaterial research is to engineer sub-wavelength unit cells that give rise to desired effective-medium properties and parameters, such as a negative refractive index. Ideally one can disregard the details of the unit cell and employ the effective description instead. A popular strategy to compensate for the inevitable losses in metallic components of metamaterials is to add optical gain material. Here we study the quantum optics of such loss-compensated metamaterials at frequencies for which effective parameters can be unambiguously determined. We demonstrate that the usual effective parameters are insufficient to describe the propagation of quantum states of light. Furthermore, we propose a quantum-optical effective-medium theory instead and show that it correctly predicts the properties of the light emerging from loss-compensated metamaterials.

id: 1208.0462
title: Conditional Symmetries and the Canonical Quantization of Constrained Minisuperspace Actions: the Schwarzschild case
authors: T. Christodoulakis, N. Dimakis, Petros A. Terzis, G. Doulis, Th. Grammenos, E. Melas, A. Spanou
comments: 20 pages, LaTeX2e source file, no figures
journal: Journal of Geometry and Physics, 71 (2013) 127-138
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0462
abstract: A conditional symmetry is defined, in the phase-space of a quadratic in velocities constrained action, as a simultaneous conformal symmetry of the supermetric and the superpotential. It is proven that such a symmetry corresponds to a variational (Noether) symmetry.The use of these symmetries as quantum conditions on the wave-function entails a kind of selection rule. As an example, the minisuperspace model ensuing from a reduction of the Einstein - Hilbert action by considering static, spherically symmetric configurations and r as the independent dynamical variable, is canonically quantized. The conditional symmetries of this reduced action are used as supplementary conditions on the wave function. Their integrability conditions dictate, at a first stage, that only one of the three existing symmetries can be consistently imposed. At a second stage one is led to the unique Casimir invariant, which is the product of the remaining two, as the only possible second condition on $\Psi$. The uniqueness of the dynamical evolution implies the need to identify this quadratic integral of motion to the reparametrisation generator. This can be achieved by fixing a suitable parametrization of the r-lapse function, exploiting the freedom to arbitrarily rescale it. In this particular parametrization the measure is chosen to be the determinant of the supermetric. The solutions to the combined Wheeler - DeWitt and linear conditional symmetry equations are found and seen to depend on the product of the two "scale factors"

id: 1208.0519
title: Coherent Quantum Oscillations in a Silicon Charge Qubit
authors: Zhan Shi, C. B. Simmons, Daniel. R. Ward, J. R. Prance, R. T. Mohr, Teck Seng Koh, John King Gamble, Xian. Wu, D. E. Savage, M. G. Lagally, Mark Friesen, S. N. Coppersmith, M. A. Eriksson
comments: 5 pages plus 3 page supplemental (8 pages total)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 075416 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0519
abstract: Fast quantum oscillations of a charge qubit in a double quantum dot fabricated in a Si/SiGe heterostructure are demonstrated and characterized experimentally. The measured inhomogeneous dephasing time T2* ranges from 127ps to ~2.1ns; it depends substantially on how the energy difference of the two qubit states varies with external voltages, consistent with a decoherence process that is dominated by detuning noise(charge noise that changes the asymmetry of the qubit's double-well potential). In the regime with the shortest T2*, applying a charge-echo pulse sequence increases the measured inhomogeneous decoherence time from 127ps to 760ps, demonstrating that low-frequency noise processes are an important dephasing mechanism.

id: 1208.0550
title: Stimulated emission of radiation using spin-population inversion in metals: a spin-laser
authors: V. Korenivski, A. Iovan, A. Kadigrobov, R. I. Shekhter
comments: 5 pages
journal: Spin laser based on magnetic nano-contact array - EPL, 104 (2013) 27011
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0550
abstract: Arrays of 10 nm-diameter point contacts of exchange-coupled spin-majority/spin-minority ferromagnetic metals, integrated into infrared-terahertz range photon resonators, are fabricated and measured electrically and optically. Giant, threshold-type electronic excitations under high-current pumping of the devices are observed as abrupt but reversible steps in device resistance, in many cases in access of 100%, which correlate with optical emission from the devices. The results are interpreted as due to stimulated spin-flip electron-photon relaxation in the system.

id: 1208.0556
title: Convexity of momentum map, Morse index, and quantum entanglement
authors: Adam Sawicki, Micha? Oszmaniec, Marek Ku?
comments: 37 pages, 2 figures, changes in the manuscript structure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0556
abstract: We analyze form the topological perspective the space of all SLOCC (Stochastic Local Operations with Classical Communication) classes of pure states for composite quantum systems. We do it for both distinguishable and indistinguishable particles. In general, the topology of this space is rather complicated as it is a non-Hausdorff space. Using geometric invariant theory (GIT) and momentum map geometry we propose a way to divide the space of all SLOCC classes into mathematically and physically meaningful families. Each family consists of possibly many `asymptotically' equivalent SLOCC classes. Moreover, each contains exactly one distinguished SLOCC class on which the total variance (a well defined measure of entanglement) of the state Var[v] attains maximum. We provide an algorithm for finding critical sets of Var[v], which makes use of the convexity of the momentum map and allows classification of such defined families of SLOCC classes. The number of families is in general infinite. We introduce an additional refinement into finitely many groups of families using the recent developments in the momentum map geometry known as Ness stratification. We also discuss how to define it equivalently using the convexity of the momentum map applied to SLOCC classes. Moreover, we note that the Morse index at the critical set of the total variance of state has an interpretation of number of non-SLOCC directions in which entanglement increases and calculate it for several exemplary systems. Finally, we introduce the SLOCC-invariant measure of entanglement as a square root of the total variance of state at the critical point and explain its geometric meaning.

id: 1208.0557
title: Critical sets of the total variance of state detect all SLOCC entanglement classes
authors: Adam Sawicki, Micha? Oszmaniec, Marek Ku?
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0557
abstract: We present a general algorithm for finding all classes of pure multiparticle states equivalent under Stochastic Local Operations and Classsical Communication (SLOCC). We parametrize all SLOCC classes by the critical sets of the total variance function. Our method works for arbitrary systems of distinguishable and indistinguishable particles. We also discuss the Morse indices of critical points which have the interpretation of the number of independent non-local perturbations increasing the variance and hence entanglement of a state. We illustrate our method by two examples.

id: 1208.0697
title: A discriminating string order parameter for topological phases of gapped SU(N) spin chains
authors: Kasper Duivenvoorden, Thomas Quella
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 235142 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0697
abstract: One-dimensional gapped spin chains with symmetry PSU(N) = SU(N)/Z_N are known to possess N different topological phases. In this paper, we introduce a non-local string order parameter which characterizes each of these N phases unambiguously. Numerics confirm that our order parameter allows to extract a quantized topological invariant from a given non-degenerate gapped ground state wave function. Discontinuous jumps in the discrete topological order that arise when varying physical couplings in the Hamiltonian may be used to detect quantum phase transitions between different topological phases.

id: 1208.0707
title: High efficiency preparation of single trapped atoms using blue detuned light assisted collisions
authors: A. V. Carpentier, Y. H. Fung, P. Sompet, A. J. Hilliard, T. G. Walker, M. F. Andersen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0707
abstract: We report on a procedure by which we obtain a 91% loading efficiency of single 85Rb atoms in an optical microtrap. This can be achieved within a total preparation time of 542 ms. We employ blue detuned light assisted collisions to realize a process in which only one of the collision partners is lost. We explain the mechanism for efficiently loading a single atom and discuss the factors that limit the final efficiency.

id: 1208.0720
title: Quantum trajectories
authors: Maciej Blaszak, Ziemowit Domanski
comments: 10 pages, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0720
abstract: This paper presents a new approach to phase space trajectories in quantum mechanics. A Moyal description of quantum theory is used, where observables and states are treated as classical functions on a classical phase space. A quantum trajectory being an appropriate solution to quantum Hamiltonian equations is also a function defined on a classical phase space. The difference, when compare with classical theory, is in a deformation of a classical action of a flow on observables and states to an appropriate quantum action. This leads also to deformation of a multiplication rule for any quantum trajectory treated as a one-parameter group of diffeomorphisms. Moreover, several examples are given, presenting the developed formalism for particular quantum systems.

id: 1208.0735
title: Scaling of the R¨¦nyi entropies in gapped quantum spin systems: Entanglement-driven order beyond symmetry breaking
authors: S. M. Giampaolo, S. Montangero, F. Dell'Anno, S. De Siena, F. Illuminati
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0735
abstract: We investigate the scaling of the R\'enyi $\alpha$-entropies in one-dimensional gapped quantum spin models. We show that the block entropies with $\alpha > 2$ violate the area law monotonicity and exhibit damped oscillations. Depending on the existence of a factorized ground state, the oscillatory behavior occurs either below factorization or it extends indefinitely. The anomalous scaling corresponds to an entanglement-driven order that is independent of ground-state degeneracy and is revealed by a nonlocal order parameter defined as the sum of the single-copy entanglement over all blocks.

id: 1208.0764
title: Asymptotic properties of quantum Markov chains
authors: Jaroslav Novotny, Gernot Alber, Igor Jex
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0764
abstract: The asymptotic dynamics of quantum Markov chains generated by the most general physically relevant quantum operations is investigated. It is shown that it is confined to an attractor space on which the resulting quantum Markov chain is diagonalizable. A construction procedure of a basis of this attractor space and its associated dual basis is presented. It applies whenever a strictly positive quantum state exists which is contracted or left invariant by the generating quantum operation. Moreover, algebraic relations between the attractor space and Kraus operators involved in the definition of a quantum Markov chain are derived. This construction is not only expected to offer significant computational advantages in cases in which the dimension of the Hilbert space is large and the dimension of the attractor space is small but it also sheds new light onto the relation between the asymptotic dynamics of quantum Markov chains and fixed points of their generating quantum operations.

id: 1208.0818
title: Ultimate charge sensitivity and efficiency of a quantum point contact with a superposed input state
authors: Kang-Ho Lee, Kicheon Kang
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review B, vol. 87, 045407 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0818
abstract: We address the ultimate charge detection scheme with a quantum point contact. It is shown that a superposed input state is necessary to exploit the full sensitivity of a quantum point contact detector. The coherence of the input state provides an improvement in charge sensitivity, and this improvement is a result of the fundamental property of the scattering matrix. Further, a quantum-limited (maximally efficient) detection is possible by controlling the interference between the two output waves. Our scheme provides the ultimate sensitivity and efficiency of charge detection with a generic quantum point contact.

id: 1208.0850
title: Optical nonlinearity for few-photon pulses on a quantum dot-pillar cavity device
authors: Vivien Loo, Christophe Arnold, Olivier Gazzano, Aristide Lemaitre, Isabelle Sagnes, Olivier Krebs, Paul Voisin, Pascale Senellart, Lo?c Lanco
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Supplemental Materials available in the directory anc/ included in the source of this manuscript
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.0850
abstract: Giant optical nonlinearity is observed under both continuous-wave and pulsed excitation in a deterministically-coupled quantum dot-micropillar system, in a pronounced strong-coupling regime. Using absolute reflectivity measurements we determine the critical intracavity photon number as well as the input and output coupling efficiencies of the device. Thanks to a near-unity input-coupling efficiency, we demonstrate a record nonlinearity threshold of only 8 incident photons per pulse. The output-coupling efficiency is found to strongly influence this nonlinearity threshold. We show how the fundamental limit of single-photon nonlinearity can be attained in realistic devices, which would provide an effective interaction between two coincident single photons.

id: 1208.1000
title: Dispersion properties of transverse waves propagating in the electrically polarized BECs
authors: P. A. Andreev, L. S. Kuzmenkov
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47, 225301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1000
abstract: Further development of the method of quantum hydrodynamics in application for Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) is presented. To consider evolution of polarization direction along with particles movement we have developed corresponding set of quantum hydrodynamic equations. It includes equations of the polarization evolution and the polarization current evolution along with the continuity equation and the Euler equation (the momentum balance equation). Dispersion properties of the transverse waves including the electromagnetic waves propagating through the BECs are considered. To this end we consider full set of the Maxwell equations for description of electromagnetic field dynamics. This approximation gives us possibility to consider the electromagnetic waves along with the matter waves. We find a splitting of the electromagnetic wave dispersion on two branches. As a result we have four solutions, two for the electromagnetic waves and two for the matter waves, the last two are the concentration-polarization waves appearing as a generalization of the Bogoliubov mode. We also obtain that if the matter wave propagate perpendicular to external electric field when dipolar contribution does not disappear (as it follows from our generalization of the Bogoliubov spectrum). In this case exist a small dipolar frequency shift due to transverse electric field of perturbation.

id: 1208.1057
title: Isolated Hadamard Matrices from Mutually Unbiased Product Bases
authors: Daniel McNulty, Stefan Weigert
comments: 21 pages, identical to published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 122202 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1057
abstract: A new construction of complex Hadamard matrices of composite order d=pq, with primes p,q, is presented which is based on pairs of mutually unbiased bases containing only product states. For product dimensions d < 100, we illustrate the method by deriving many previously unknown complex Hadamard matrices. We obtain at least 12 new isolated matrices of Butson type, with orders ranging from 9 to 91.

id: 1208.1088
title: Excited states in Richardson pairing model: `probabilistic' approach
authors: W. V. Pogosov
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 128, 1 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1088
abstract: Richardson equations can be mapped on the classical electrostatic problem in two dimensions. We have recently suggested a new analytical approach to these equations in the thermodynamical limit, which is based on the `probability' of the system of charges to be in a given configuration at the effective temperature equal to the interaction constant. In the present paper, we apply this approach to excited states of the Richardson pairing model. We focus on the equally-spaced situation and address arbitrary fillings of the energy layer, where interaction acts. The `partition function' for the classical problem on the plane, which is given by Selberg-type integral, is evaluated exactly. Three regimes for the energy gap are identified, which can be treated as the dilute regime of pairs, BCS regime, and dilute regime of holes.

id: 1208.1099
title: Sub-femtotesla scalar atomic magnetometer using multipass cells
authors: D. Sheng, S. Li, N. Dural, M. V. Romalis
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1099
abstract: Scalar atomic magnetometers have many attractive features but their sensitivity has been relatively poor. We describe a Rb scalar gradiometer using two multi-pass optical cells. We use a pump-probe measurement scheme to suppress spin-exchange relaxation and two probe pulses to find the spin precession zero crossing times with a resolution of 1 psec. We realize magnetic field sensitivity of 0.54 fT/Hz$^{1/2}$, which improves by an order of magnitude the best scalar magnetometer sensitivity and surpasses the quantum limit set by spin-exchange collisions for a scalar magnetometer with the same measurement volume operating in a continuous regime.

id: 1208.1113
title: Spontaneous emission enhancement of a single molecule by a double-sphere nanoantenna across an interface
authors: K.-G. Lee, H. Eghlidi, X-W. Chen, A. Renn, S. G?tzinger, V. Sandoghdar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1113
abstract: We report on two orders of magnitude reduction in the fluorescence lifetime when a single molecule placed in a thin film is surrounded by two gold nanospheres across the film interface. By attaching one of the gold particles to the end of a glass fiber tip, we could control the modification of the molecular fluorescence at will. We find a good agreement between our experimental data and the outcome of numerical calculations.

id: 1208.1121
title: Gaussian Equilibration
authors: Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Added section on integrable-non-integrable transitions
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 012106 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1121
abstract: A finite quantum system evolving unitarily equilibrates in a probabilistic fashion. In the general many-body setting the time-fluctuations of an observable \mathcal{A} are typically exponentially small in the system size. We consider here quasi-free Fermi systems where the Hamiltonian and observables are quadratic in the Fermi operators. We first prove a novel bound on the temporal fluctuations \Delta\mathcal{A}^{2} and then map the equilibration dynamics to a generalized classical XY model in the infinite temperature limit. Using this insight we conjecture that, in most cases, a central limit theorem can be formulated leading to what we call Gaussian equilibration: observables display a Gaussian distribution with relative error \Delta\mathcal{A}/\bar{\mathcal{A}}=O(L^{-1/2}) where L is the dimension of the single particle space. The conjecture, corroborated by numerical evidence, is proven analytically under mild assumptions for the magnetization in the quantum XY model and for a class of observables in a tight-binding model. We also show that the variance is discontinuous at the transition between a quasi-free model and a non-integrable one.

id: 1208.1142
title: Comments on "On the Consistency of the Solutions of the Space Fractional Schr?dinger Equation" [J. Math. Phys. 53, 042105 (2012)]
authors: Sel?uk ?. Bayin
comments: 
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 53, 084101 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1142
abstract: Recently we have reanalyzed the consistency of the solutions of the space fractional Schr\"odinger equation found in a piecewise manner, and showed that an exact and a proper treatment of the relevant integrals prove that they are consistent. In this comment, for clarity, we present additional information about the critical integrals and describe how their analytic continuation is accomplished. [doi: 10.1063/1.4705268]

id: 1208.1164
title: Radiation pressure, moving media, and multilayer systems
authors: S. A. R. Horsley, M. Artoni, G. C. La Rocca
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1164
abstract: A general theory of optical forces on moving bodies is here developed in terms of generalized/4x4 transfer and scattering matrices. Results are presented for a planar dielectric multilayer of arbitrary refractive index placed in an otherwise empty space and moving parallel and perpendicular to the slab-vacuum interface. In both regimes of motion the resulting force comprises lateral and normal velocity-dependent components which may depend in a subtle way on the Doppler effect and TE-TM polarization mixing. For lateral displacements in particular, polarization mixing, which is here interpreted as an effective magneto-electric effect due to the reduced symmetry induced by the motion of the slab, gives rise to a velocity dependent force contribution that is sensitive to the phase difference between the two polarization amplitudes. This term gives rise to a rather peculiar optical response on the moving body and specific caseses are illustrated for incident radiation of arbitrarily directed linear polarization. The additional force due to polarization mixing may cancel to first order in V/c with the first order Doppler contribution yielding an overall vanishing of the velocity-dependent component of the force on the body. The above findings bare some relevance to modern developments of nano-optomechanics as well as to the problem of a frictional component to the Casimir force.

id: 1208.1236
title: A Remotely Interrogated All-Optical $^{87}$Rb Magnetometer
authors: Brian Patton, Oscar Versolato, D. Chris Hovde, Eric Corsini, James Higbie, Dmitry Budker
comments: Accepted to Appl. Phys. Lett.; 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1236
abstract: Atomic magnetometry was performed at Earth's magnetic field over a free-space distance of ten meters. Two laser beams aimed at a distant alkali-vapor cell excited and detected the $^{87}$Rb magnetic resonance, allowing the magnetic field within the cell to be interrogated remotely. Operated as a driven oscillator, the magnetometer measured the geomagnetic field with \lessgtrsim{\lesssim}3.5\,pT precision in a $\sim$2\,s data acquisition; this precision was likely limited by ambient field fluctuations. The sensor was also operated in self-oscillating mode with a 5.3\,pT/$\sqrt{\textrm{Hz}}$ noise floor. Further optimization will yield a high-bandwidth, fully remote magnetometer with sub-pT sensitivity.

id: 1208.1243
title: A novel isospectral deformation chain in supersymmetric quantum mechanics
authors: Bj?rn Jensen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1243
abstract: We present a novel isospectral deformation chain in supersymmetric quantum mechanics. The chain is applied to the Coulomb potential.

id: 1208.1284
title: Spin Qubit Relaxation in a Moving Quantum Dot
authors: Peihao Huang, Xuedong Hu
comments: 7 pages and 3 figures
journal: Physical Review B 88, 075301 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1284
abstract: Long-range quantum communication for spin qubits is an important open problem. Here we study decoherence of an electron spin qubit that is being transported in a moving quantum dot. We focus on spin decoherence due to spin-orbit interaction and a random electric potential. We find that at the lowest order, the motion induces longitudinal spin relaxation, with a rate linear in the dot velocity. Our calculated spin relaxation time ranges from sub $\mu$s in GaAs to above ms in Si, making this relaxation a significant decoherence channel. Our results also give clear indications on how to reduce the decoherence effect of electron motion.

id: 1208.1309
title: The vacuum state and minimum energy in Dirac's hole theory
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1309
abstract: In Dirac's hole theory the vacuum state is assumed to be the state where all negative energy states are occupied and all positive energy states are unoccupied. This is often referred to as the Dirac sea. It is generally assumed that the Dirac sea is the minimum possible energy state. However it will be shown in this paper that this is not the case.

id: 1208.1332
title: Half-filled Kondo lattice on the honeycomb lattice
authors: Yin Zhong, Ke Liu, Yu-Feng Wang, Yong-Qiang Wang, Hong-Gang Luo
comments: pages, 7 figure,manuscript is heavily expanded
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B(2013) 86: 195
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1332
abstract: The unique linear density of state around the Dirac points for the honeycomb lattice brings much novel features in strongly correlated models. Here we study the ground-state phase diagram of the Kondo lattice model on the honeycomb lattice at half-filling by using an extended mean-field theory. By treating magnetic interaction and Kondo screening on an equal footing, it is found that besides a trivial discontinuous first-order quantum phase transition between well-defined Kondo insulator and antiferromagnetic insulating state, there can exist a wide coexistence region with both Kondo screening and antiferromagnetic orders in the intermediate coupling regime. In addition, the stability of Kondo insulator requires a minimum strength of the Kondo coupling. These features are attributed to the linear density of state, which are absent in the square lattice. Furthermore, fluctuation effect beyond the mean-field decoupling is analyzed and the corresponding antiferromagnetic spin-density-wave transition falls into the O(3) universal class. Comparatively, we also discuss the Kondo necklace and the Kane-Mele-Kondo (KMK) lattice models on the same lattice. Interestingly, it is found that the topological insulating state is unstable to the usual antiferromagnetic ordered states at half-filling for the KMK model. The present work may be helpful for further studies on the interplay between conduction electrons and the densely localized spins on the honeycomb lattice.

id: 1208.1354
title: Observing the Nonequilibrium Dynamics of the Quantum Transverse-Field Ising Chain in Circuit QED
authors: Oliver Viehmann, Jan von Delft, Florian Marquardt
comments: v2: 5+11 pages, 4+10 figures, as to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett. (2013)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 030601 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1354
abstract: We show how a quantum Ising spin chain in a time-dependent transverse magnetic field can be simulated and experimentally probed in the framework of circuit QED with current technology. The proposed setup provides a new platform for observing the nonequilibrium dynamics of interacting many-body systems. We calculate its spectrum to offer a guideline for its initial experimental characterization. We demonstrate that quench dynamics and the propagation of localized excitations can be observed with the proposed setup and discuss further possible applications and modifications of this circuit QED quantum simulator.

id: 1208.1378
title: Entangling two defects via a surrounding crystal
authors: Thom¨¢s Fogarty, Endre Kajari, Bruno G. Taketani, Alexander Wolf, Thomas Busch, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 050304(R) (2013)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1378
abstract: We theoretically show how two impurity defects in a crystalline structure can be entangled through coupling with the crystal. We demonstrate this with a harmonic chain of trapped ions in which two ions of a different species are embedded. Entanglement is found for sufficiently cold chains and for a certain class of initial, separable states of the defects. It results from the interplay between localized modes which involve the defects and the interposed ions, it is independent of the chain size, and decays slowly with the distance between the impurities. These dynamics can be observed in systems exhibiting spatial order, viable realizations are optical lattices, optomechanical systems, or cavity arrays in circuit QED.

id: 1208.1449
title: Low entropy output states for products of random unitary channels
authors: Benoit Collins, Motohisa Fukuda, Ion Nechita
comments: 
journal: Random Matrices: Theory Appl. 02, 1250018 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1449
abstract: In this paper, we study the behaviour of the output of pure entangled states after being transformed by a product of conjugate random unitary channels. This study is motivated by the counterexamples by Hastings and Hayden-Winter to the additivity problems. In particular, we study in depth the difference of behaviour between random unitary channels and generic random channels. In the case where the number of unitary operators is fixed, we compute the limiting eigenvalues of the output states. In the case where the number of unitary operators grows linearly with the dimension of the input space, we show that the eigenvalue distribution converges to a limiting shape that we characterize with free probability tools. In order to perform the required computations, we need a systematic way of dealing with moment problems for random matrices whose blocks are i.i.d. Haar distributed unitary operators. This is achieved by extending the graphical Weingarten calculus introduced in Collins and Nechita (2010).

id: 1208.1456
title: Ytterbium in quantum gases and atomic clocks: van der Waals interactions and blackbody shifts
authors: M. S. Safronova, S. G. Porsev, Charles W. Clark
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1456
abstract: We evaluated the C_6 coefficients of Yb-Yb and Yb -alkali/group II van der Waals interactions with 2% uncertainty. The only existing results for such quantities are for the Yb-Yb dimer. Our value, C_6=1929(39) a.u., is in excellent agreement with the recent experimental determination of 1932(35) a.u. We have also developed a new approach for the calculation of the dynamic correction to the blackbody radiation shift. We have calculated this quantity for the Yb 6s^2 ^1S_0 - 6s6p ^3P_0 clock transition with 3.5% uncertainty. This reduces the fractional uncertainty due to the blackbody radiation shift in the Yb optical clock at 300 K to 10^{-18} level.

id: 1208.1535
title: Lindeman's criterion: diamond graphitization temperature and its dependence on external pressure
authors: V.N. Strekalov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1535
abstract: A simple model for the "diamond graphitization" type of phase transition is proposed, leading to a good agreement with the experimental data. The phase transition temperature dependence on the external pressure is found. A new phenomenon in diamond is predicted, which is a decrease of the temperature of graphitization with increase of external pressure.

id: 1208.1556
title: Quantum renormalization of entanglement in an antisymmetric anisotropic and bond-alternating spin system
authors: Xiang Hao
comments: 13 pages, 4 figues
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1556
abstract: The quantum renormalization group method is applied to study the quantum criticality and entanglement entropy of the ground state of the Ising chain in the presence of antisymmetric anisotropic couplings and alternating exchange interactions. The quantum phase transitions can be characterized by the discontinuity in the second derivative of the energy of renormalized ground state. The phase diagram is obtained by the critical boundary line. The first derivative of entanglement entropy also diverges at the same critical points after enough iterations of the renormalization of coupling constants. The antisymmetric anisotropy and alternating interaction can enhance the renormalized entanglement via the creation of quantum fluctuations. The scaling behavior of the derivative of the entropy around the critical points manifest the logarithm dependence on the size of the spin system.

id: 1208.1598
title: Time Evolution of States for Open Quantum Systems. The quadratic case
authors: Didier Robert
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1598
abstract: Our main goal in this paper is to extend to any system of coupled quadratic Hamiltonians some properties known for systems of quantum harmonic oscillators related with the Brownian Quantum Motion model. In a first part we get a rather general formula for the purity (or the linear entropy) in a short time approximation. In a second part we establish a master equation (or a Fokker-Planck type equation) for the time evolution of the reduced matrix density for bilinearly coupled quadratic Hamiltonians. The Hamiltonians and the bilinear coupling can be time dependent. Moreover we give an explicit formula for the solution of this master equation so that the time evolution of the reduced density at time $t$ is connected with the reduced density at initial time $t_0$ for $t_0 \leq t <t_0 +t_c$ where $t_c\in ]0, \infty]$ is a critical time but reversibility is lost for $t \geq t_0 +t_c$.

id: 1208.1645
title: Wilson's numerical renormalization group and AdS_3 geometry
authors: Kouichi Okunishi
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1645
abstract: We discuss the relation between the Wilson's numerical renormalization group(NRG) for the Kondo impurity problem and a field theory in the background AdS_3 space time, where the radial coordinate plays a role of the controlling parameter of the effective mass scale. We find that the Wilson NRG can be described by the boundary Rindler field and then the cutoff parameter \lambda of the Wilson NRG is related to the AdS radius L through \lambda = 2k_F/\omega L, where k_F is the effective Fermi wave number. It is also found that the Rindler space is discretized with the lattice space of a=\pi/k_F.

id: 1208.1652
title: Retinal and post-retinal contributions to the quantum efficiency of the human eye
authors: Gibran Manasseh, Chloe de Balthasar, Bruno Sanguinetti, Enrico Pomarico, Nicolas Gisin, Rolando Grave de Peralta, Sara L. Gonzalez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1652
abstract: The retina is one of the best known quantum detectors with rods able to respond to a single photon. However, estimates on the number of photons eliciting conscious perception, based on signal detection theory, are systematically above these values. One possibility is that post-retinal processing significantly contributes to the decrease in the quantum efficiency determined by signal detection. We carried out experiments in humans using controlled sources of light while recording EEG and reaction times. Half of the participants behaved as noisy detectors reporting perception in trials where no light was sent. DN subjects were significantly faster to take decisions. Reaction times significantly increased with the decrease in the number of photons. This trend was reflected in the latency and onset of the EEG responses over frontal and parietal contacts where the first significant differences in latency comparable to differences in reaction time appeared. Delays in latency of neural responses across intensities were observed later over visual areas suggesting that they are due to the time required to reach the decision threshold in decision areas rather than to longer integration times at sensory areas. Our results suggest that post-retinal processing significantly contribute to increase detection noise and thresholds, decreasing the efficiency of the retina brain detector system.

id: 1208.1659
title: Superfluid drag of two-species Bose-Einstein condensates in optical lattices
authors: Patrick P. Hofer, C. Bruder, Vladimir M. Stojanovic
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Accepted in its original form but minor changes have been done
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033627 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1659
abstract: We study two-species Bose-Einstein condensates in quasi two-dimensional optical lattices of varying geometry and potential depth. Based on the numerically exact Bloch and Wannier functions obtained using the plane-wave expansion method, we quantify the drag (entrainment coupling) between the condensate components. This drag originates from the (short range) inter-species interaction and increases with the kinetic energy. As a result of the interplay between interaction and kinetic energy effects, the superfluid-drag coefficient shows a non-monotonic dependence on the lattice depth. To make contact with future experiments, we quantitatively investigate the drag for mass ratios corresponding to relevant atomic species.

id: 1208.1681
title: Observation of Quantum Effects in sub Kelvin Cold Reactions
authors: Alon B. Henson, Sasha Gersten, Yuval Shagam, Julia Narevicius, Edvardas Narevicius
comments: 
journal: Science 2012: Vol. 338 no. 6104 pp. 234-238
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1681
abstract: There has been a long-standing quest to observe chemical reactions at low temperatures where reaction rates and pathways are governed by quantum mechanical effects. So far this field of Quantum Chemistry has been dominated by theory. The difficulty has been to realize in the laboratory low enough collisional velocities between neutral reactants, so that the quantum wave nature could be observed. We report here the first realization of merged neutral supersonic beams, and the observation of clear quantum effects in the resulting reactions. We observe orbiting resonances in the Penning ionization reaction of argon and molecular hydrogen with metastable helium leading to a sharp increase in the absolute reaction rate in the energy range corresponding to a few degrees kelvin down to 10 mK. Our method is widely applicable to many canonical chemical reactions, and will enable a breakthrough in the experimental study of Quantum Chemistry.

id: 1208.1701
title: A quantum effect in the classical limit: nonequilibrium tunneling in the Duffing oscillator
authors: Shu-Hao Yeh, Dong-Bang Tsai, Che-Wei Huang, Md. Manirul Ali, Alec Maassen van den Brink
comments: 12 pages incl. figures; N.B. "Alec" is my first name, and "Maassen van den Brink" my family name
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1701
abstract: For suitable parameters, the classical Duffing oscillator has a known bistability in its stationary states, with low- and high-amplitude branches. As expected from the analogy with a particle in a double-well potential, transitions between these states become possible either at finite temperature, or in the quantum regime due to tunneling. In this analogy, besides local stability, one can also discuss global stability by comparing the two potential minima. For the Duffing oscillator, the stationary states emerge dynamically so that a priori, a potential-minimum criterion for them does not exist. However, global stability is still relevant, and definable as the state containing the majority population for long times, low temperature, and close to the classical limit. Further, the crossover point is the parameter value at which global stability abruptly changes from one state to the other. For the double-well model, the crossover point is defined by potential-minimum degeneracy. Given that this analogy is so effective in other respects, it is thus striking that for the Duffing oscillator, the crossover point turns out to be non-unique. Rather, none of the three aforementioned limits commute with each other, and the limiting behaviour depends on the order in which they are taken. More generally, as both $\hbar\To0$ and $T\To0$, the ratio $\hbar\omega_0/k_\mathrm{B}T$ continues to be a key parameter and can have any nonnegative value. This points to an apparent conceptual difference between equilibrium and nonequilibrium tunneling. We present numerical evidence by studying the pertinent quantum master equation in the photon-number basis. Independent verification and some further understanding are obtained using a semi-analytical approach in the coherent-state representation.

id: 1208.1710
title: Dynamically controlled superradiant laser for hybrid sensing of collective atomic coherence
authors: Justin G. Bohnet, Zilong Chen, Joshua M. Weiner, Kevin C. Cox, James K. Thompson
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1710
abstract: We implement dynamic control of a superradiant, cold atom $^{87}$Rb Raman laser to realize the equivalent of conditional Ramsey spectroscopy for sensing atomic phase shifts. Our method uses the non-demolition mapping of the collective quantum phase of an ensemble of two-level atoms onto the phase of a detected cavity light field. We show that the fundamental precision of the non-demolition measurement can theoretically approach the standard quantum limit on phase estimation for a coherent spin state, the traditional benchmark for Ramsey spectroscopy. Finally, we propose a hybrid optical lattice clock based on this method that combines continuous and discrete measurements to realize both high precision and accuracy.

id: 1208.1722
title: Optical mesh lattices with PT-symmetry
authors: Mohammad-Ali Miri, Alois Regensburger, Ulf Peschel, Demetrios N. Christodoulides
comments: 14 pages, 17 figures, published in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023807 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1722
abstract: We investigate a new class of optical mesh periodic structures that are discretized in both the transverse and longitudinal directions. These networks are composed of waveguide arrays that are discretely coupled while phase elements are also inserted to discretely control their effective potentials and can be realized both in the temporal and the spatial domain. Their band structure and impulse response is studied in both the passive and parity-time (PT) symmetric regime. The possibility of band merging and the emergence of exceptional points along with the associated optical dynamics are considered in detail both above and below the PT-symmetry breaking point. Finally unidirectional invisibility in PT-synthetic mesh lattices is also examined along with possible superluminal light transport dynamics.

id: 1208.1776
title: On-chip cavity quantum phonodynamics with an acceptor qubit in silicon
authors: Rusko Ruskov, Charles Tahan
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, PDFLaTeX. New version improves clarity
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 064308 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1776
abstract: We describe a chip-based, solid-state analogue of cavity-QED utilizing acoustic phonons instead of photons. We show how long-lived and tunable acceptor impurity states in silicon nanomechanical cavities can play the role of a matter non-linearity for coherent phonons just as, e.g., the Josephson qubit plays in circuit-QED. Both strong coupling (number of Rabi oscillations ~ 100) and strong dispersive coupling (0.1-2 MHz) regimes can be reached in cavities in the 1-20 GHz range, enabling the control of single phonons, phonon-phonon interactions, dispersive phonon readout of the acceptor qubit, and compatibility with other optomechanical components such as phonon-photon translators. We predict explicit experimental signatures of the acceptor-cavity system.

id: 1208.1782
title: Complex SUSY Transformations and the Painlev¨¦ IV Equation
authors: David Berm¨²dez
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 069, 10 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1782
abstract: In this paper we will explicitly work out the complex first-order SUSY transformation for the harmonic oscillator in order to obtain both real and complex new exactly-solvable potentials. Furthermore, we will show that this systems lead us to exact complex solutions of the Painlev\'e IV equation with complex parameters. We present some concrete examples of such solutions.

id: 1208.1866
title: On the metric operator for the imaginary cubic oscillator
authors: Petr Siegl, David Krejcirik
comments: 7 pages; completely rewritten, new results
journal: Phys. Rev. D 86 (2012), 121702(R)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1866
abstract: We show that the eigenvectors of the PT-symmetric imaginary cubic oscillator are complete, but do not form a Riesz basis. This results in the existence of a bounded metric operator having intrinsic singularity reflected in the inevitable unboundedness of the inverse. Moreover, the existence of non-trivial pseudospectrum is observed. In other words, there is no quantum-mechanical Hamiltonian associated with it via bounded and boundedly invertible similarity transformations. These results open new directions in physical interpretation of PT-symmetric models with intrinsically singular metric, since their properties are essentially different with respect to self-adjoint Hamiltonians, for instance, due to spectral instabilities.

id: 1208.1879
title: Absolute absorption and dispersion of a rubidium vapour in the hyperfine Paschen-Back regime
authors: Lee Weller, Kathrin S. Kleinbach, Mark A. Zentile, Svenja Knappe, Charles S. Adams, Ifan G. Hughes
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 215005 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1879
abstract: Here we report on measurements of the absolute absorption and dispersion properties of an isotopically pure 87Rb vapour for magnetic fields up to and including 0.6 T. We discuss the various regimes that arise when the hyperfine and Zeeman interactions have different magnitudes, and show that we enter the hyperfine Paschen- Back regime for fields greater than 0.33 T on the Rb D2 line. The experiment uses a compact 1 mm3 microfabricated vapour cell that makes it easy to maintain a uniform and large magnetic field with a small and inexpensive magnet. We find excellent agreement between the experimental results and numerical calculations of the weak probe susceptibility where the line positions and strengths are calculated by matrix diagonalization.

id: 1208.1882
title: Controlled redistribution of vibrational population by few-cycle strong-field laser pulses
authors: W. A. Bryan, C. R. Calvert, R. B. King, J. B. Greenwood, W. R. Newell, I. D. Williams
comments: 16 Pages, 9 figures, invited contribution to Faraday Discussion 153, Coherence and Control in Chemistry
journal: Faraday Discussions v153 p343-360 (2011)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1882
abstract: The use of strong-field (i.e. intensities in excess of 10^13 Wcm-2) few-cycle ultrafast (durations of 10 femtoseconds or less) laser pulses to create, manipulate and image vibrational wavepackets is investigated. Quasi-classical modelling of the initial superposition through tunnel ionization, wavepacket modification by nonadiabatically altering the nuclear environment via the transition dipole and the Stark effect, and measuring the control outcome by fragmenting the molecule is detailed. The influence of the laser intensity on strong-field ultrafast wavepacket control is discussed in detail: by modifying the distribution of laser intensities imaged, we show that focal conditions can be created that give preference to this three-pulse technique above processes induced by the pulses alone. An experimental demonstration is presented, and the nuclear dynamics inferred by the quasi-classical model discussed. Finally, we present the results of a systematic investigation of a dual-control pulse scheme, indicating that single vibrational states should be observable with high fidelity, and the populated state defined by varying the arrival time of the two control pulses. The relevance of such strong-field coherent control methods to the manipulation of electron localization and attosecond science is discussed.

id: 1208.1961
title: Dynamical Correlations after a Quantum Quench
authors: Fabian H. L. Essler, Stefano Evangelisti, Maurizio Fagotti
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 247206 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1961
abstract: In many integrable models static (equal time) correlation functions of local observables after a quantum quench relax to stationary values, which are described by a generalized Gibbs ensemble (GGE). Here we establish that the same holds true for dynamic (non equal time) correlation functions. More generally we show that in the absence of long-range interactions in the final Hamiltonian, the dynamics is determined by the same ensemble that describes static correlations. When the latter is a GGE the basic form of the fluctuation dissipation theorem holds, although the absorption and emission spectra are not simply related as in the thermal case. For quenches in the transverse field Ising chain (TFIC) we derive explicit expressions for the time evolution of dynamic order parameter correlators after a quench.

id: 1208.1980
title: Quantum gas mixtures in different correlation regimes
authors: Miguel Angel Garcia-March, Thomas Busch
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063633 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1980
abstract: We present a many-body description for two-component ultracold bosonic gases when one of the species is in the weakly interacting regime and the other is either weakly or strongly interacting. In the one-dimensional limit the latter case system is a hybrid in which a Tonks-Girardeau gas is immersed in a Bose-Einstein condensate, which is an example of a new class of quantum system involving a tunable, superfluid environment. We describe the process of phase separation microscopically and semiclassically in both situations and show that the quantum correlations are maintained in the separated phase.

id: 1208.2023
title: Electrometry Using Coherent Exchange Oscillations in a Singlet-Triplet-Qubit
authors: O. E. Dial, M. D. Shulman, S. P. Harvey, H. Bluhm, V. Umansky, A. Yacoby
comments: 
journal: PRL 110, 146804 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2023
abstract: Two level systems that can be reliably controlled and measured hold promise in both metrology and as qubits for quantum information science (QIS). When prepared in a superposition of two states and allowed to evolve freely, the state of the system precesses with a frequency proportional to the splitting between the states. In QIS,this precession forms the basis for universal control of the qubit,and in metrology the frequency of the precession provides a sensitive measurement of the splitting. However, on a timescale of the coherence time, $T_2$, the qubit loses its quantum information due to interactions with its noisy environment, causing qubit oscillations to decay and setting a limit on the fidelity of quantum control and the precision of qubit-based measurements. Understanding how the qubit couples to its environment and the dynamics of the noise in the environment are therefore key to effective QIS experiments and metrology. Here we show measurements of the level splitting and dephasing due to voltage noise of a GaAs singlet-triplet qubit during exchange oscillations. Using free evolution and Hahn echo experiments we probe the low frequency and high frequency environmental fluctuations, respectively. The measured fluctuations at high frequencies are small, allowing the qubit to be used as a charge sensor with a sensitivity of $2 \times 10^{-8} e/\sqrt{\mathrm{Hz}}$, two orders of magnitude better than the quantum limit for an RF single electron transistor (RF-SET). We find that the dephasing is due to non-Markovian voltage fluctuations in both regimes and exhibits an unexpected temperature dependence. Based on these measurements we provide recommendations for improving $T_2$ in future experiments, allowing for higher fidelity operations and improved charge sensitivity.

id: 1208.2029
title: Route to Observable Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov Phases in 3D Spin-Orbit Coupled Degenerate Fermi Gases
authors: Zhen Zheng, Ming Gong, Xubo Zou, Chuanwei Zhang, Guangcan Guo
comments: 5 pages,4 figures. We show that the FFLO superfluid in spin-orbit coupled degenerate Fermi gas is driven by a totally different mechanism
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 031602(R) (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2029
abstract: The Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov (FFLO) phase was first predicted in 2D superconductors about 50 years ago, but so far unambiguous experimental evidences are still lacked. The recently experimentally realized spin-imbalanced Fermi gases may potentially unveil this elusive state, but require very stringent experimental conditions. In this Letter, we show that FFLO phases may be observed even in a 3D degenerate Fermi gas with spin-orbit coupling and in-plane Zeeman field. The FFLO phase is driven by the interplay between asymmetry of Fermi surface and superfluid order, instead of the interplay between magnetic and superconducting order in solid materials. The predicted FFLO phase exists in a giant parameter region, possesses a stable long-range superfluid order due to the 3D geometry, and can be observed with experimentally already achieved temperature ($T\sim 0.05E_{F}$), thus opens a new fascinating avenue for exploring FFLO physics.

id: 1208.2053
title: Derivation of some translation-invariant Lindblad equations for a quantum Brownian particle
authors: Wojciech De Roeck, Dominique Spehner
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures, minor revision
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 150, 320-352 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2053
abstract: We study the dynamics of a Brownian quantum particle hopping on an infinite lattice with a spin degree of freedom. This particle is coupled to free boson gases via a translation-invariant Hamiltonian which is linear in the creation and annihilation operators of the bosons. We derive the time evolution of the reduced density matrix of the particle in the van Hove limit in which we also rescale the hopping rate. This corresponds to a situation in which both the system-bath interactions and the hopping between neighboring sites are small and they are effective on the same time scale. The reduced evolution is given by a translation-invariant Lindblad master equation which is derived explicitly.

id: 1208.2067
title: Measurement of the Homogeneous Contact of a Unitary Fermi gas
authors: Yoav Sagi, Tara E. Drake, Rabin Paudel, Deborah S. Jin
comments: 5 pages, including a supplementary material section (10 pages). Rewriting of the introduction and discussion sections
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 220402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2067
abstract: By selectively probing the center of a trapped gas, we measure the local, or homogeneous, contact of a unitary Fermi gas as a function of temperature. Tan's contact, C, is proportional to the derivative of the energy with respect to the interaction strength, and is thus an essential thermodynamic quantity for a gas with short-range correlations. Theoretical predictions for the temperature dependence of C differ substantially, especially near the superfluid transition, Tc, where C is predicted to either sharply decrease, sharply increase, or change very little. For T/T_F>0.4, our measurements of the homogeneous gas contact show a gradual decrease of C with increasing temperature, as predicted by theory. We observe a sharp decrease in C at T/T_F=0.16, which may be due to the superfluid phase transition. While a sharp decrease in C below Tc is predicted by some many-body theories, we find that none of the predictions fully accounts for the data.

id: 1208.2077
title: Electron-positron pair production in an arbitrary polarized ultrastrong laser field
authors: Liang-Yong He, Bai-Song Xie, Xin-Heng Guo, Hong-Yu Wang
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2077
abstract: Electron-positron pair production in an arbitrary polarized ultrastrong laser field is investigated in the first order perturbation approximation in which the Volkov states are used for convenient calculation of scattering amplitude and cross section. It is found surprisingly that the optimal pair production depends strongly on the polarization. For some cases of field parameters, the optimal field is elliptically polarized or evenly circularly polarized one, rather than the usual linear polarization as indicated by previous works. Some insights into pair generation are given and some interesting unexpected features are also discussed briefly.

id: 1208.2086
title: Geometry-Controlled Nonlinear Optical Response of Quantum Graphs
authors: Shoresh Shafei, Rick Lytel, Mark G. Kuzyk
comments: To appear in J. Opt. Society of America B
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 29, 12, 3419-3428 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2086
abstract: We study for the first time the effect of the geometry of quantum wire networks on their nonlinear optical properties and show that for some geometries, the first hyperpolarizability is largely enhanced and the second hyperpolarizability is always negative or zero. We use a one-electron model with tight transverse confinement. In the limit of infinite transverse confinement, the transverse wavefunctions drop out of the hyperpolarizabilities, but their residual effects are essential to include in the sum rules. The effects of geometry are manifested in the projections of the transition moments of each wire segment onto the 2-D lab frame. Numerical optimization of the geometry of a loop leads to hyperpolarizabilities that rival the best chromophores. We suggest that a combination of geometry and quantum-confinement effects can lead to systems with ultralarge nonlinear response.

id: 1208.2143
title: Symmetries, Topological Phases and Bound States in the One-Dimensional Quantum Walk
authors: J. K. Asboth
comments: 10 pages, simplified some notation
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 195414 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2143
abstract: Discrete-time quantum walks have been shown to simulate all known topological phases in one and two dimensions. Being periodically driven quantum systems, their topological description, however, is more complex than that of closed Hamiltonian systems. We map out the topological phases of the particle-hole symmetric one-dimensional discrete-time quantum walk. We find that there is no chiral symmetry in this system: its topology arises from the particle-hole symmetry alone. We calculate the Z2 \times Z2 topological invariant in a simple way that is consistent with a general definition for 1-dimensional periodically driven quantum systems. These results allow for a transparent interpretation of the edge states on a finite lattice via the the bulk-boundary correspondance. We find that the bulk Floquet operator does not contain all the information needed for the topological invariant. As an illustration to this statement, we show that in the split-step quantum walk, the edges between two bulks with the same Floquet operator can host topologically protected edge states.

id: 1208.2147
title: Symmetry-breaking thermally induced collapse of dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Andrej Junginger, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner, Thomas Bartsch
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023632 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2147
abstract: We investigate a Bose-Einstein condensate with additional long-range dipolar interaction in a cylindrically symmetric trap within a variational framework. Compared to the ground state of this system, little attention has as yet been payed to its unstable excited states. For thermal excitations, however, the latter is of great interest, because it forms the "activated complex" that mediates the collapse of the condensate. For a certain value of the s-wave scatting length our investigations reveal a bifurcation in the transition state, leading to the emergence of two additional and symmetry-breaking excited states. Because these are of lower energy than their symmetric counterpart, we predict the occurrence of a symmetry-breaking thermally induced collapse of dipolar condensates. We show that its occurrence crucially depends on the trap geometry and calculate the thermal decay rates of the system within leading order transition state theory with the help of a uniform rate formula near the rank-2 saddle which allows to smoothly pass the bifurcation.

id: 1208.2173
title: Estimating the plasmonic field enhancement using high-order harmonic generation: The role of inhomogeneity of the fields
authors: T. Shaaran, M. F. Ciappina, M. Lewenstein
comments: 7 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2173
abstract: In strong field laser physics it is a common practice to use the high-order harmonic cutoff to estimate the laser intensity of the pulse that generates the harmonic radiation. Based on the semiclassical arguments it is possible to find a direct relationship between the maximum value of the photon energy and the laser intensity. This approach is only valid if the electric field driving HHG is spatially homogenous. In laser-matter processes driven by plasmonics fields, the enhanced fields present a spatial dependence that strongly modifies the electron motion and consequently the laser driven phenomena. As a result, this method should be revised in order to more realistically estimate the field. In this work, we demonstrate how the inhomogeneity of the fields will effect this estimation. Furthermore, by employing both quantum mechanical and classical calculations, we show how one can obtain a better estimation for the intensity of the enhanced field in plasmonic nanostructure.

id: 1208.2181
title: Functional RG flow of the effective Hamiltonian action
authors: G. P. Vacca, L. Zambelli
comments: 31 pages, latex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2181
abstract: After a brief review of the definition and properties of the quantum effective Hamiltonian action we describe its renormalization flow by a functional RG equation. This equation can be used for a non-perturbative quantization and study also of theories with bare Hamiltonians which are not quadratic in the momenta. As an example the vacuum energy and gap of quantum mechanical models are computed. Extensions of this framework to quantum field theories are discussed. In particular one possible Lorentz covariant approach for simple scalar field theories is developed. Fermionic degrees of freedom, being naturally described by a first order formulation, can be easily accommodated in this approach.

id: 1208.2222
title: Efficiency of the general quantum-mechanical Carnot engine
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: (Open Access Journal) Entropy 15, 1408-1415 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2222
abstract: A quantum-mechanical analog of the Carnot engine reversibly working at vanishing temperature, shortly termed the quantum-mechanical Carnot engine, is discussed. A general formula for the efficiency of such an engine with an arbitrary confining potential is presented. Its expression is purely given in terms of the structure of the energy spectrum. Dependency of the efficiency on the form of a potential as an analog of the working material in thermodynamics implies nonuniversality of the engine. This may be due to the absence of the second-law-like principle in pure-state quantum mechanics.

id: 1208.2255
title: Quantum simulation of expanding space-time with tunnel-coupled condensates
authors: Clemens Neuenhahn, Florian Marquardt
comments: 5+1 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2255
abstract: We consider two weakly interacting quasi-1D condensates of cold bosonic atoms. It turns out that a time-dependent variation of the tunnel-coupling between those condensates is equivalent with the spatial expansion of a one-dimensional toy-Universe with regard to the dynamics of the relative phase field. The dynamics of this field is governed by the quantum sine-Gordon equation. Thus, this analogy could be used to 'quantum simulate' the dynamics of a scalar, interacting quantum field on an expanding background. We discuss, how to observe the freezing out of quantum fluctuations during an accelerating expansion in a possible experiment. We also discuss an experimental protocol to study the formation of sine-Gordon breathers in the relative phase field out of quantum fluctuations.

id: 1208.2266
title: Fractional Canonical Quantization: a Parallel with Noncommutativity
authors: Cresus F. L. Godinho, Jose Weberszpil, J. A. Helay?l Neto
comments: 24 pages,0 figures. corrected version
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2266
abstract: Adopting a particular approach to fractional calculus, this paper sets out to build up a consistent extension of the Faddeev-Jackiw (or Symplectic) algorithm to carry out the quantization procedure of coarse-grained models in the standard canonical way. In our treatment, we shall work with the Modified Riemman Liouville (MRL) approach for fractional derivatives, where the chain rule is as efficient as it is in the standard differential calculus. We still present a case where we consider the situation of charged particles moving on a plane with velocity $\dot{r}$, subject to an external and intense magnetic field in a coarse-grained scenario. We propose an interesting parallelism with the noncommutative case.

id: 1208.2300
title: Dynamical Equations, Invariants and Spectrum Generating Algebras of Mechanical Systems with Position-Dependent Mass
authors: Sara Cruz y Cruz, Oscar Rosas-Ortiz
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 9 (2013), 004, 21 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2300
abstract: We analyze the dynamical equations obeyed by a classical system with position-dependent mass. It is shown that there is a non-conservative force quadratic in the velocity associated to the variable mass. We construct the Lagrangian and the Hamiltonian for this system and find the modifications required in the Euler-Lagrange and Hamilton's equations to reproduce the appropriate Newton's dynamical law. Since the Hamiltonian is not time invariant, we get a constant of motion suited to write the dynamical equations in the form of the Hamilton's ones. The time-dependent first integrals of motion are then obtained from the factorization of such a constant. A canonical transformation is found to map the variable mass equations to those of a constant mass. As particular cases, we recover some recent results for which the dependence of the mass on the position was already unnoticed, and find new solvable potentials of the P\"oschl-Teller form which seem to be new. The latter are associated to either the su(1,1) or the su(2) Lie algebras depending on the sign of the Hamiltonian.

id: 1208.2349
title: Finite temperature effects in two-mode bosonic Josephson junctions
authors: G. Mazzarella, L. Salasnich, F. Toigo
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures; accepted for publication in J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 185301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2349
abstract: We analyze the effects of the temperature on a bosonic Josephson junction realized with ultracold and dilute atoms in a double-well potential. Starting from the eigenstates of the two-site Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian, we calculate the coherence visibility and the fluctuation of the on-site occupation number and study them as functions of the temperature. We show that, contrary to naive expectations, when the boson-boson interaction is suitably chosen thermal effects can increase the coherence visibility and reduce the on-site number fluctuation.

id: 1208.2354
title: A Quantum Model for the Ellsberg and Machina Paradoxes
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo, Jocelyn Tapia
comments: 10 pages
journal: Quantum Interaction. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 7620, pp 48-59, 2012
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2354
abstract: The Ellsberg and Machina paradoxes reveal that expected utility theory is problematical when real subjects take decisions under uncertainty. Suitable generalizations of expected utility exist which attempt to solve the Ellsberg paradox, but none of them provides a satisfactory solution of the Machina paradox. In this paper we elaborate a quantum model in Hilbert space describing the Ellsberg situation and also the Machina situation, and show that we can model the specific aspect of the Machina situation that is unable to be modeled within the existing generalizations of expected utility.

id: 1208.2362
title: The Guppy Effect as Interference
authors: Diederik Aerts, Jan Broekaert, Liane Gabora, Tomas Veloz
comments: 10 pages
journal: Quantum Interaction. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 7620, pp 36-47, 2012
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2362
abstract: People use conjunctions and disjunctions of concepts in ways that violate the rules of classical logic, such as the law of compositionality. Specifically, they overextend conjunctions of concepts, a phenomenon referred to as the Guppy Effect. We build on previous efforts to develop a quantum model that explains the Guppy Effect in terms of interference. Using a well-studied data set with 16 exemplars that exhibit the Guppy Effect, we developed a 17-dimensional complex Hilbert space H that models the data and demonstrates the relationship between overextension and interference. We view the interference effect as, not a logical fallacy on the conjunction, but a signal that out of the two constituent concepts, a new concept has emerged.

id: 1208.2407
title: A Second-Order Distributed Trotter-Suzuki Solver with a Hybrid Kernel
authors: Peter Wittek, Fernando M. Cucchietti
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Computer Physics Communications 184, 1165-1171 (2013)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2407
abstract: The Trotter-Suzuki approximation leads to an efficient algorithm for solving the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation. Using existing highly optimized CPU and GPU kernels, we developed a distributed version of the algorithm that runs efficiently on a cluster. Our implementation also improves single node performance, and is able to use multiple GPUs within a node. The scaling is close to linear using the CPU kernels, whereas the efficiency of GPU kernels improve with larger matrices. We also introduce a hybrid kernel that simultaneously uses multicore CPUs and GPUs in a distributed system. This kernel is shown to be efficient when the matrix size would not fit in the GPU memory. Larger quantum systems scale especially well with a high number nodes. The code is available under an open source license.

id: 1208.2526
title: High momentum splitting of matter-waves by an atom chip field gradient beam-splitter
authors: Shimon Machluf, Yonathan Japha, Ron Folman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2526
abstract: The splitting of matter-waves into a superposition of spatially separated states is a fundamental tool for studying the basic tenets of quantum mechanics and other theories, as well as a building block for numerous technological applications. We report the realization of a matter-wave beam splitter based on magnetic field gradients on an atom chip, which can be used for freely propagating or trapped atoms in a Bose-Einstein condensate or a thermal state. It has a wide dynamic range of momentum transfer and operation time. Differential velocities exceeding 0.5 m/s can be achieved in a few micro-seconds. The beam splitter may enable a wide range of applications, such as, fundamental studies of many-body entanglement and dephasing processes, probing classical and quantum properties of nearby solids, and metrology of rotation, acceleration and gravity on a chip scale.

id: 1208.2536
title: Discrete series representations for sl(2|1), Meixner polynomials and oscillator models
authors: E. I. Jafarov, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: (some minor misprints were corrected in this version)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 485201
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2536
abstract: We explore a model for the one-dimensional quantum oscillator based upon the Lie superalgebra sl(2|1). For this purpose, a class of discrete series representations of sl(2|1) is constructed, each representation characterized by a real number beta>0. In this model, the position and momentum operators of the oscillator are odd elements of sl(2|1) and their expressions involve an arbitrary parameter gamma. In each representation, the spectrum of the Hamiltonian is the same as that of the canonical oscillator. The spectrum of the momentum operator can be continuous or infinite discrete, depending on the value of gamma. We determine the position wavefunctions both in the continuous and discrete case, and discuss their properties. In the discrete case, these wavefunctions are given in terms of Meixner polynomials. From the embedding osp(1|2)\subset sl(2|1), it can be seen why the case gamma=1 corresponds to the paraboson oscillator. Consequently, taking the values (beta,gamma)=(1/2,1) in the sl(2|1) model yields the canonical oscillator.

id: 1208.2546
title: On the correspondence between the solutions of Dirac equation and electromagnetic 4-potentials
authors: Aristides I. Kechriniotis, Christos A. Tsonos, Konstantinos K. Delibasis, Georgios N. Tsigaridas
comments: In this version we have drastically corrected some important results of the paper
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2546
abstract: In this paper the inverse problem of the correspondence between the solutions of the Dirac equation and the electromagnetic 4-potentials, is fully solved. The Dirac solutions are classified into two classes. The first one consists of degenerate Dirac solutions corresponding to an infinite number of 4-potentials while the second one consists of non-degenerate Dirac solutions corresponding to one and only one electromagnetic 4-potential. Explicit expressions for the electromagnetic 4-potentials are provided in both cases. Further, in the case of the degenerate Dirac solutions, it is proven that at least two 4-potentials are gauge inequivalent, and consequently correspond to different electromagnetic fields. An example is provided to illustrate this case.

id: 1208.2558
title: Quantum dynamics of the avian compass
authors: Zachary B. Walters
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 042710 (2014)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2558
abstract: The ability of migratory birds to orient relative to the Earth's magnetic field is believed to involve a coherent superposition of two spin states of a radical electron pair. However, the mechanism by which this coherence can be maintained in the face of strong interactions with the cellular environment has remained unclear. This Letter addresses the problem of decoherence between two electron spins due to hyperfine interaction with a bath of spin 1/2 nuclei. Dynamics of the radical pair density matrix are derived and shown to yield a simple mechanism for sensing magnetic field orientation. Rates of dephasing and decoherence are calculated ab initio and found to yield millisecond coherence times, consistent with behavioral experiments.

id: 1208.2603
title: Fluctuation Electromagnetic Interaction Between Small Rotating Particle and a Surface
authors: G. V. Dedkov, A. A. Kyasov
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Europhys. Lett. 99 (2012) 64002
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2603
abstract: We study fluctuation electromagnetic interaction between small neutral rotating particle and polarizable surface. The attraction force, friction torque and heating are produced by the particle polarization and fluctuating near-field of the surface. Closed analytical expressions are found for these quantities assuming that the particle and surface are characterized by the frequency dependent polarizability and dielectric permittivity and different temperatures. It is shown that the stopping time of the rolling particle in the near-field of the surface is much less than the stopping time under uniform motion and rolling in vacuum space.

id: 1208.2610
title: Quantum Chaos and Quantum Computing Structures
authors: Carlos Pedro Gon?alves
comments: 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2610
abstract: A system of quantum computing structures is introduced and proven capable of making emerge, on average, the orbits of classical bounded nonlinear maps on \mathbb{C} through the iterative action of path-dependent quantum gates. The effects of emerging nonlinear dynamics and chaos upon the quantum averages of relevant observables and quantum probabilities are exemplified for a version of Chirikov's standard map on \mathbb{C} . Both the individual orbits and ensemble properties are addressed so that the Poincar\'e map for Chirikov's standard map, in the current quantum setting, is reinterpreted in terms of a quantum ensemble which is then formally introduced within the formalized system of quantum computing structures, in terms of quantum register machines, revealing three phases of quantum ensemble dynamics: the regular, the chaotic and an intermediate phase called complex quantum stochastic phase which shares similarities to the edge of chaos notion from classical cellular automata and classical random boolean networks' evolutionary computation.

id: 1208.2623
title: Characterizing topological order by studying the ground states of an infinite cylinder
authors: Lukasz Cincio, Guifre Vidal
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 067208 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2623
abstract: Given a microscopic lattice Hamiltonian for a topologically ordered phase, we describe a tensor network approach to characterize its emergent anyon model and, in a chiral phase, also its gapless edge theory. First, a tensor network representation of a complete, orthonormal set of ground states on a cylinder of infinite length and finite width is obtained through numerical optimization. Each of these ground states is argued to have a different anyonic flux threading through the cylinder. In a chiral phase, the entanglement spectrum of each ground state is seen to reveal a different sector of the corresponding gapless edge theory. A quasi-orthogonal basis on the torus is then produced by chopping off and reconnecting the tensor network representation on the cylinder. Elaborating on the recent proposal of [Y. Zhang et al. Phys. Rev. B 85, 235151 (2012)], a rotation on the torus yields an alternative basis of ground states and, through the computation of overlaps between bases, the modular matrices S and U (containing the mutual and self statistics of the different anyon species) are extracted. As an application, we study the hard-core boson Haldane model by using the two-dimensional density matrix renormalization group. A thorough characterization of the universal properties of this lattice model, both in the bulk and at the edge, unambiguously shows that its ground space realizes the \nu=1/2 bosonic Laughlin state.

id: 1208.2664
title: Impact of photo-assisted collisions on superradiant light scattering with Bose condensates
authors: Xinyu Luo, Kuiyi Gao, L. Deng, E. W. Hagley, Ruquan Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2664
abstract: We present experimental evidence supporting the postulation that the secondary effects of light-assisted collisions are the main reason that the superradiant light scattering efficiency in condensates is asymmetric with respect to the sign of the pump-laser detuning. Contrary to the recent experimental study, however, we observe severe and comparable heating with all three pump-laser polarizations. We also perform two-color, double-pulse measurements to directly study the degradation of condensate coherence and the resulting impact on the superradiant scattering efficiency.

id: 1208.2705
title: Quantum harmonic oscillator systems with disorder
authors: Bruno Nachtergaele, Robert Sims, G¨¹nter Stolz
comments: 
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 149, 969--1012 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2705
abstract: We study many-body properties of quantum harmonic oscillator lattices with disorder. A sufficient condition for dynamical localization, expressed as a zero-velocity Lieb-Robinson bound, is formulated in terms of the decay of the eigenfunction correlators for an effective one-particle Hamiltonian. We show how state-of-the-art techniques for proving Anderson localization can be used to prove that these properties hold in a number of standard models. We also derive bounds on the static and dynamic correlation functions at both zero and positive temperature in terms of one-particle eigenfunction correlators. In particular, we show that static correlations decay exponentially fast if the corresponding effective one-particle Hamiltonian exhibits localization at low energies, regardless of whether there is a gap in the spectrum above the ground state or not. Our results apply to finite as well as to infinite oscillator systems. The eigenfunction correlators that appear are more general than those previously studied in the literature. In particular, we must allow for functions of the Hamiltonian that have a singularity at the bottom of the spectrum. We prove exponential bounds for such correlators for some of the standard models.

id: 1208.2723
title: Polariton Bose-Einstein condensate at room temperature in a Al(Ga)N nanowire-dielectric microcavity with a spatial potential trap
authors: Ayan Das, Pallab Bhattacharya, Junseok Heo, Animesh Banerjee, Wei Guo
comments: 28 pages, 6 figures, Submitted to the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2723
abstract: A spatial potential trap is formed in a 6.0 {\mu}m Al(Ga)N nanowire by varying the Al composition along its length during epitaxial growth. The polariton emission characteristics of a dielectric microcavity with the single nanowire embedded in-plane has been studied at room temperature. Excitation is provided at the Al(Ga)N end of the nanowire and polariton emission is observed from the lowest bandgap GaN region of the nanowire. Comparison of the results with those measured in an identical microcavity with an uniform GaN nanowire and having an identical exciton-photon detuning suggests evaporative cooling of the polaritons as they are transported across the trap in the Al(Ga)N nanowire. Measurement of the spectral characteristics of the polariton emission, their momentum distribution, first-order spatial coherence and time-resolved measurements of polariton cooling provide strong evidence of the formation of an equilibrium Bose-Einstein condensate, a unique state of matter in solid state systems, in the GaN region of the nanowire, at room temperature. An equilibrium condensate is not formed in the GaN nanowire dielectric microcavity without the spatial potential trap.

id: 1208.2737
title: Shannon Information Theory Without Shedding Tears Over Delta \& Epsilon Proofs or Typical Sequences
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 37 pages (files: 1 .tex, 1 .sty)
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2737
abstract: This paper begins with a discussion of integration over probability types (p-types). After doing that, the paper re-visits 3 mainstay problems of classical (non-quantum) Shannon Information Theory (SIT): source coding without distortion, channel coding, and source coding with distortion. The paper proves well-known, conventional results for each of these 3 problems. However, the proofs given for these results are not conventional. They are based on complex integration techniques (approximations obtained by applying the method of steepest descent to p-type integrals) instead of the usual delta & epsilon and typical sequences arguments. Another unconventional feature of this paper is that we make ample use of classical Bayesian networks (CB nets). This paper showcases some of the benefits of using CB nets to do classical SIT.

id: 1208.2742
title: Unpaired Floquet Majorana fermions without magnetic fields
authors: Andres A. Reynoso, Diego Frustaglia
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 115420 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2742
abstract: Quantum wires subject to the combined action of spin-orbit and Zeeman coupling in the presence of \emph{s}-wave pairing potentials (superconducting proximity effect in semiconductors or superfluidity in cold atoms) are one of the most promising systems for the developing of topological phases hosting Majorana fermions. The breaking of time-reversal symmetry is essential for the appearance of unpaired Majorana fermions. By implementing a \emph{time-dependent} spin rotation, we show that the standard magnetostatic model maps into a \emph{non-magnetic} one where the breaking of time-reversal symmetry is guaranteed by a periodical change of the spin-orbit coupling axis as a function of time. This suggests the possibility of developing the topological superconducting state of matter driven by external forces in the absence of magnetic fields and magnetic elements. From a practical viewpoint, the scheme avoids the disadvantages of conjugating magnetism and superconductivity, even though the need of a high-frequency driving of spin-orbit coupling may represent a technological challenge. We describe the basic properties of this Floquet system by showing that finite samples host unpaired Majorana fermions at their edges despite the fact that the bulk Floquet quasienergies are gapless and that the Hamiltonian at each instant of time preserves time-reversal symmetry. Remarkably, we identify the mean energy of the Floquet states as a topological indicator. We additionally show that the localized Floquet Majorana fermions are robust under local perturbations. Our results are supported by complementary numerical Floquet simulations.

id: 1208.2778
title: Complex quantum network model of energy transfer in photosynthetic complexes
authors: Bao-quan Ai, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 061917 (2012)
subjects: Molecular Networks (q-bio.MN); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2778
abstract: The quantum network model with real variables is usually used to describe the excitation energy transfer (EET) in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson(FMO) complexes. In this paper we add the quantum phase factors to the hopping terms and find that the quantum phase factors play an important role in the EET. The quantum phase factors allow us to consider the space structure of the pigments. It is found that phase coherence within the complexes would allow quantum interference to affect the dynamics of the EET. There exist some optimal phase regions where the transfer efficiency takes its maxima, which indicates that when the pigments are optimally spaced, the exciton can pass through the FMO with perfect efficiency. Moreover, the optimal phase regions almost do not change with the environments. In addition, we find that the phase factors are useful in the EET just in the case of multiple-pathway. Therefore, we demonstrate that, the quantum phases may bring the other two factors, the optimal space of the pigments and multiple-pathway, together to contribute the EET in photosynthetic complexes with perfect efficiency.

id: 1208.2779
title: Comment on "Excitons in Molecular Aggregates with Levy Disorder: Anomalous Localization and Exchange Broadening of Optical Spectra"
authors: Agnieszka Werpachowska, Alexandra Olaya-Castro
comments: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 259701 (2012) (subm on 29 Nov 2011)
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2779
abstract: In their Letter [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 137402 (2010)], Eisfeld et al. predicted the exchange broadening and blue-shift of the absorption band as well as a nonuniversal disorder scaling of the localization length of excitons in J-aggregates with Levy disorder, which they contrasted with the previously analyzed Gaussian and Lorentzian case [Phys. Rev. B, 79, 1 (2009)]. The observations were explained by chain segmentation due to outliers, and its interplay with localization of states in effective potential wells created by typical random site energies. We argue that the previously known theory does not break down and thus anticipates the properties of absorption band investigated in the commented work.

id: 1208.2800
title: Dynamical Singularities of Glassy Systems in a Quantum Quench
authors: Tomoyuki Obuchi, Kazutaka Takahashi
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 051125 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2800
abstract: We present a prototype of behavior of glassy systems driven by quantum dynamics in a quenching protocol by analyzing the random energy model in a transverse field. We calculate several types of dynamical quantum amplitude and find a freezing transition at some critical time. The behavior is understood by the partition-function zeros in the complex temperature plane. We discuss the properties of the freezing phase as a dynamical chaotic phase, which are contrasted to those of the spin-glass phase in the static system.

id: 1208.2835
title: Canonical transformations in quantum mechanics
authors: Maciej Blaszak, Ziemowit Domanski
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2835
abstract: This paper presents the general theory of canonical transformations of coordinates in quantum mechanics. First, the theory is developed in the formalism of phase space quantum mechanics. It is shown that by transforming a star-product, when passing to a new coordinate system, observables and states transform as in classical mechanics, i.e., by composing them with a transformation of coordinates. Then the developed formalism of coordinate transformations is transferred to a standard formulation of quantum mechanics. In addition, the developed theory is illustrated on examples of particular classes of quantum canonical transformations.

id: 1208.2848
title: High accuracy correction of blackbody radiation shift in an optical lattice clock
authors: Thomas Middelmann, Stephan Falke, Christian Lisdat, Uwe Sterr
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, including appendix with supplementary text. Version 2 with adjusted value of differential static polarizability due to field plate separation measurement
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 263004 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2848
abstract: We have determined the frequency shift that blackbody radiation is inducing on the $5s^2$ $^1$S$_0$ -- $5s5p$ $^3$P$_0$ clock transition in strontium. Previously its uncertainty limited the uncertainty of strontium lattice clocks to $1\times10^{-16}$. Now the uncertainty associated to the black body radiation shift correction translates to $5\times 10^{-18}$ relative frequency uncertainty at room temperature. Our evaluation is based on a measurement of the differential dc-polarizability of the two clock states and on a modeling of the dynamic contribution using this value and experimental data for other atomic properties.

id: 1208.2941
title: Scattering bright solitons: quantum versus mean-field behavior
authors: Bettina Gertjerenken, Thomas P. Billam, Lev Khaykovich, Christoph Weiss
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033608 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.2941
abstract: We investigate scattering bright solitons off a potential using both analytical and numerical methods. Our paper focuses on low kinetic energies for which differences between the mean-field description via the Gross-Pitaevskii equation (GPE) and the quantum behavior are particularly large. On the N-particle quantum level, adding an additional harmonic confinement leads to a simple signature to distinguish quantum superpositions from statistical mixtures. While the non-linear character of the GPE does not allow quantum superpositions, the splitting of GPE-solitons takes place only partially. When the potential strength is increased, the fraction of the soliton which is transmitted or reflected jumps non-continuously. We explain these jumps via energy-conservation and interpret them as indications for quantum superpositions on the N-particle level. On the GPE-level, we also investigate the transition from this stepwise behavior to the continuous case.

id: 1208.3082
title: Relativistic polarization analysis of Rayleigh scattering by atomic hydrogen
authors: Laleh Safari, Pedro Amaro, Stephan Fritzsche, Jos¨¦ Paulo Santos, Stanislav Tashenov, Filippo Fratini
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043405 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3082
abstract: A relativistic analysis of the polarization properties of light elastically scattered by atomic hydrogen is performed, based on the Dirac equation and second order perturbation theory. The relativistic atomic states used for the calculations are obtained by making use of the finite basis set method and expressed in terms of $B$ splines and $B$ polynomials. We introduce two experimental scenarios in which the light is circularly and linearly polarized, respectively. For each of these scenarios, the polarization-dependent angular distribution and the degrees of circular and linear polarization of the scattered light are investigated as a function of scattering angle and photon energy. Analytical expressions are derived for the polarization-dependent angular distribution which can be used for scattering by both hydrogenic as well as many-electron systems. Detailed computations are performed for Rayleigh scattering by atomic hydrogen within the incident photon energy range 0.5 to 10 keV. Particular attention is paid to the effects that arise from higher (nondipole) terms in the expansion of the electron-photon interaction.

id: 1208.3109
title: A Matterwave Transistor Oscillator
authors: Seth C. Caliga, Cameron J. E. Straatsma, Alex A. Zozulya, Dana Z. Anderson
comments: Major revision incorporates new experimental data and a thermodynamic model. 5 pages, 6 figures, 19 references
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3109
abstract: An atomtronic transistor circuit is used to realize a driven matterwave oscillator. The transistor consists of Source and Drain regions separated by a narrow Gate well. Quasi-steady-state behavior is determined from a thermodynamic model, which reveals two oscillation threshold regimes. One is due to the onset of Bose-Einstein condensation in the Gate well, the other is due to the appearance of a negative transresistance regime of the transistor. The thresholds of oscillation are shown to be primarily dependent on the potential energy height difference between Gate-Drain and Gate-Source barriers. The transistor potential is established with a combination of magnetic and optical fields using a compound glass and silicon substrate atom chip. The onset of oscillation and the output matterwave are observed through in-trap imaging. Time-of-flight absorption imaging is used to determine the time dependence of the Source well thermal and chemical energies as well as to estimate the value of the closed-loop ohmic Gate resistance, which is negative and is observed to cause cooling of Source atoms.

id: 1208.3142
title: Non-degenerate, three-wave mixing with the Josephson ring modulator
authors: Baleegh Abdo, Archana Kamal, Michel H. Devoret
comments: 21 pages, 16 figures, 4 tables
journal: Physical Review B 87, 014508 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3142
abstract: The Josephson ring modulator (JRM) is a device, based on Josephson tunnel junctions, capable of performing non-degenerate mixing in the microwave regime without losses. The generic scattering matrix of the device is calculated by solving coupled quantum Langevin equations. Its form shows that the device can achieve quantum-limited noise performance both as an amplifier and a mixer. Fundamental limitations on simultaneous optimization of performance metrics like gain, bandwidth and dynamic range (including the effect of pump depletion) are discussed. We also present three possible integrations of the JRM as the active medium in a different electromagnetic environment. The resulting circuits, named Josephson parametric converters (JPC), are discussed in detail, and experimental data on their dynamic range are found to be in good agreement with theoretical predictions. We also discuss future prospects and requisite optimization of JPC as a preamplifier for qubit readout applications.

id: 1208.3256
title: Preservation of Commutation Relations and Physical Realizability of Open Two-Level Quantum Systems
authors: Luis A. Duffaut Espinosa, Zibo Miao, I. R. Petersen, V. Ugrinovskii, M. R. James
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3256
abstract: Coherent feedback control considers purely quantum controllers in order to overcome disadvantages such as the acquisition of suitable quantum information, quantum error correction, etc. These approaches lack a systematic characterization of quantum realizability. Recently, a condition characterizing when a system described as a linear stochastic differential equation is quantum was developed. Such condition was named physical realizability, and it was developed for linear quantum systems satisfying the quantum harmonic oscillator canonical commutation relations. In this context, open two-level quantum systems escape the realm of the current known condition. When compared to linear quantum system, the challenges in obtaining such condition for such systems radicate in that the evolution equation is now a bilinear quantum stochastic differential equation and that the commutation relations for such systems are dependent on the system variables. The goal of this paper is to provide a necessary and sufficient condition for the preservation of the Pauli commutation relations, as well as to make explicit the relationship between this condition and physical realizability.

id: 1208.3329
title: Single ions trapped in a one-dimensional optical lattice
authors: Martin Enderlein, Thomas Huber, Christian Schneider, Tobias Schaetz
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3329
abstract: We report on three-dimensional optical trapping of single ions in an optical lattice formed by two counter-propagating laser beams. We characterize the trapping parameters of the standing wave using the ion as a sensor stored in a hybrid trap consisting of a radio-frequency (rf), a dc, and the optical potential. When loading ions directly from the rf into the standing-wave trap, we observe a dominant heating rate. Monte Carlo simulations confirm rf-induced parametric excitations within the deep optical lattice as the main source. We demonstrate a way around this effect by an alternative transfer protocol which involves an intermediate step of optical confinement in a single-beam trap avoiding the temporal overlap of the standing wave and the rf field. Implications arise for hybrid (rf/optical) and pure optical traps as platforms for ultra-cold chemistry experiments exploring atom--ion collisions or quantum simulation experiments with ions, or combinations of ions and atoms.

id: 1208.3334
title: Computational Complexity in Electronic Structure
authors: James D. Whitfield, Peter J. Love, Alan Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3334
abstract: In quantum chemistry, the price paid by all known efficient model chemistries is either the truncation of the Hilbert space or uncontrolled approximations. Theoretical computer science suggests that these restrictions are not mere shortcomings of the algorithm designers and programmers but could stem from the inherent difficulty of simulating quantum systems. Extensions of computer science and information processing exploiting quantum mechanics has led to new ways of understanding the ultimate limitations of computational power. Interestingly, this perspective helps us understand widely used model chemistries in a new light. In this article, the fundamentals of computational complexity will be reviewed and motivated from the vantage point of chemistry. Then recent results from the computational complexity literature regarding common model chemistries including Hartree-Fock and density functional theory are discussed.

id: 1208.3359
title: Renormalization Group Limit Cycle for Three-Stranded DNA
authors: Tanmoy Pal, Poulomi Sadhukhan, Somendra M. Bhattacharjee
comments: To Appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 028105 (2013)
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3359
abstract: We show that there exists an Efimov-like three strand DNA bound state at the duplex melting point and it is described by a renormalization group limit cycle. A nonperturbative RG is used to obtain this result in a model involving short range pairing only. Our results suggest that Efimov physics can be tested in polymeric systems.

id: 1208.3382
title: Higgs algebraic symmetry of screened system in a spherical geometry
authors: Yan Li, Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 8 pages, 1 fig
journal: Communications in Theoretical Physics 60, 278 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3382
abstract: The orbits and the dynamical symmetries for the screened Coulomb potentials and isotropic harmonic oscillators have been studied by Wu and Zeng [Z. B. Wu and J. Y. Zeng, Phys. Rev. A 62,032509 (2000)]. We find the similar properties in the responding systems in a spherical space, whose dynamical symmetries are described by Higgs Algebra. There exists a conserved aphelion and perihelion vector, which, together with angular momentum, constitute the generators of the geometrical symmetry group at the aphelia and perihelia points $(\dot{r}=0)$.

id: 1208.3469
title: Holographic Geometry of Entanglement Renormalization in Quantum Field Theories
authors: Masahiro Nozaki, Shinsei Ryu, Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: 42pages, 9figures, reference added, minor change
journal: JHEP10(2012)193
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3469
abstract: We study a conjectured connection between the AdS/CFT and a real-space quantum renormalization group scheme, the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA). By making a close contact with the holographic formula of the entanglement entropy, we propose a general definition of the metric in the MERA in the extra holographic direction, which is formulated purely in terms of quantum field theoretical data. Using the continuum version of the MERA (cMERA), we calculate this emergent holographic metric explicitly for free scalar boson and free fermions theories, and check that the metric so computed has the properties expected from AdS/CFT. We also discuss the cMERA in a time-dependent background induced by quantum quench and estimate its corresponding metric.

id: 1208.3503
title: Bulk-Edge correspondence of entanglement spectrum in 2D spin ground states
authors: Raul A. Santos
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, one section and references added
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3503
abstract: General local spin $S$ ground states, described by a Valence Bond Solid (VBS) on a two dimensional lattice are studied. The norm of these ground states is mapped to a classical O(3) model on the same lattice. Using this quantum-to-classical mapping we obtain the partial density matrix $\rho_{A}$ associated with a subsystem ${A}$ of the original ground state. We show that the entanglement spectrum of $\rho_{\rm A}$ in a translation invariant lattice is given by the spectrum of a quantum spin chain at the boundary of region $A$, with local Heisenberg type interactions between spin 1/2 particles.

id: 1208.3515
title: Decoherence induced deformation of the ground state in adiabatic quantum computation
authors: Qiang Deng, Dmitri V. Averin, Mohammad H. Amin, Peter Smith
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, Article number:1479, Published: 26 March 2013
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3515
abstract: Despite more than a decade of research on adiabatic quantum computation (AQC), its decoherence properties are still poorly understood. Many theoretical works have suggested that AQC is more robust against decoherence, but a quantitative relation between its performance and the qubits' coherence properties, such as decoherence time, is still lacking. While the thermal excitations are known to be important sources of errors, they are predominantly dependent on temperature but rather insensitive to the qubits' coherence. Less understood is the role of virtual excitations, which can also reduce the ground state probability even at zero temperature. Here, we introduce normalized ground state fidelity as a measure of the decoherence-induced deformation of the ground state due to virtual transitions. We calculate the normalized fidelity perturbatively at finite temperatures and discuss its relation to the qubits' relaxation and dephasing times, as well as its projected scaling properties.

id: 1208.3528
title: Highly-charged ions as a basis of optical atomic clockwork of exceptional accuracy
authors: Andrei Derevianko, V. A. Dzuba, V. V. Flambaum
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3528
abstract: We propose a novel class of atomic clocks based on highly charged ions. We consider highly-forbidden laser-accessible transitions within the $4f^{12}$ ground-state configurations of highly charged ions. Our evaluation of systematic effects demonstrates that these transitions may be used for building exceptionally accurate atomic clocks which may compete in accuracy with recently proposed nuclear clock.

id: 1208.3572
title: Consistent Probabilistic Description of the Neutral Kaon System
authors: J. Bernabeu, N. E. Mavromatos, P. Villanueva-Perez
comments: 10 pages latex, non-trivial observations and clarifications made compared to previous version, concerning interpretation of results (relevant parametrization) which leads to agreement of time-dependent rates with those of WWA. References added. Matches version to appear in Phys. Lett. B
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3572
abstract: The neutral Kaon system has both CP violation in the mass matrix and a non-vanishing lifetime difference in the width matrix. This leads to an effective Hamiltonian which is not a normal operator, with incompatible (non-commuting) masses and widths. In the Weisskopf-Wigner Approach (WWA), by diagonalizing the entire Hamiltonian, the unphysical non-orthogonal "stationary" states $K_{L,S}$ are obtained. These states have complex eigenvalues whose real (imaginary) part does not coincide with the eigenvalues of the mass (width) matrix. In this work we describe the system as an open Lindblad-type quantum mechanical system due to Kaon decays. This approach, in terms of density matrices for initial and final states, provides a consistent probabilistic description, avoiding the standard problems because the width matrix becomes a composite operator not included in the Hamiltonian. We consider the dominant-decay channel to two pions, so that one of the Kaon states with definite lifetime becomes stable. This new approach provides results for the time dependent decay rates in agreement with those of the WWA.

id: 1208.3632
title: Proof of an entropy conjecture for Bloch coherent spin states and its generalizations
authors: Elliott H. Lieb, Jan Philip Solovej
comments: Version 2 only minor changes
journal: Acta Math, 212, 379-398 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3632
abstract: Wehrl used Glauber coherent states to define a map from quantum density matrices to classical phase space densities and conjectured that for Glauber coherent states the mininimum classical entropy would occur for density matrices equal to projectors onto coherent states. This was proved by Lieb in 1978 who also extended the conjecture to Bloch SU(2) spin-coherent states for every angular momentum $J$. This conjecture is proved here. We also recall our 1991 extension of the Wehrl map to a quantum channel from $J$ to $K=J+1/2, J+1, ...$, with $K=\infty$ corresponding to the Wehrl map to classical densities. For each $J$ and $J<K\leq \infty$ we show that the minimal output entropy for these channels occurs for a $J$ coherent state. We also show that coherent states both Glauber and Bloch minimize any concave functional, not just entropy.

id: 1208.3717
title: Real-time Quantum Chemistry
authors: Moritz P. Haag, Markus Reiher
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Quantum Chem. Vol. 113, Issue 1, pages 8-20, 5 January 2013
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3717
abstract: Significant progress in the development of efficient and fast algorithms for quantum chemical calculations has been made in the past two decades. The main focus has always been the desire to be able to treat ever larger molecules or molecular assemblies---especially linear and sub-linear scaling techniques are devoted to the accomplishment of this goal. However, as many chemical reactions are rather local, they usually involve only a limited number of atoms so that models of about two hundred (or even less) atoms embedded in a suitable environment are sufficient to study their mechanisms. Thus, the system size does not need to be enlarged, but remains constant for reactions of this type that can be described by less than two hundred atoms. The question then arises how fast one can obtain the quantum chemical results. This question is not directly answered by linear-scaling techniques. In fact, ideas such as haptic quantum chemistry or interactive quantum chemistry require an immediate provision of quantum chemical information which demands the calculation of data in "real time". In this perspective, we aim at a definition of real-time quantum chemistry, explore its realm and eventually discuss applications in the field of haptic quantum chemistry. For the latter we elaborate whether a direct approach is possible by virtue of real-time quantum chemistry.

id: 1208.3738
title: Demonstrating nonlocality induced teleportation through Majorana bound states in a semiconductor nanowire
authors: Peiyue Wang, Yunshan Cao, Ming Gong, Shu-Shen Li, Xin-Qi Li
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3738
abstract: It was predicted by Tewari [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 100}, 027001 (2008)] that a teleportationlike electron transfer phenomenon is one of the novel consequences of the existence of Majorana fermion, because of the inherently nonlocal nature. In this work we consider a concrete realization and measurement scheme for this interesting behavior, based on a setup consisting of a pair of quantum dots which are tunnel-coupled to a semiconductor nanowire and are jointly measured by two point-contact detectors. We analyze the teleportation dynamics in the presence of measurement backaction and discuss how the teleportation events can be identified from the current trajectories of strong response detectors.

id: 1208.3762
title: Optical analogues of quantum chirality
authors: Daniela Dragoman, Adrian Radu, Sorina Iftimie
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3762
abstract: We show that the quantum chirality of charge carriers in graphene can be mimicked in optical structures. More precisely, we demonstrate that the particular form of the transmission coefficient at an interface in graphene between regions with different parameters can be retrieved in optics in either isotropic, gyrotropic and electro-optic materials or in complex conjugate materials. Quantitative analogies are found, at least in some parameter range, between optical and quantum parameters for which the transmission coefficient is similar in the optical and quantum cases, and hence the optical fields and quantum wavefunctions propagate in a similar manner.

id: 1208.3768
title: Atomic swelling upon compression
authors: V. K. Dolmatov, J. L. King
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3768
abstract: The hydrogen atom under the pressure of a spherical penetrable confinement potential of a decreasing radius $r_{0}$ is explored, as a case study. A novel counter-intuitive effect of atomic swelling rather than shrinking with decreasing $r_{0}$ is unraveled, when $r_{0}$ reaches, and remains smaller than, a certain critical value. Upon swelling, the size of the atom is shown to increase by an order of magnitude, or more, compared to the size of the free atom. Examples of changes of photoabsorption properties of confined hydrogen atom upon its swelling are uncovered and demonstrated.

id: 1208.3786
title: Quantized Casimir Force
authors: Wang-Kong Tse, A. H. MacDonald
comments: 4.2 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 236806 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3786
abstract: We investigate the Casimir effect between two-dimensional electron systems driven to the quantum Hall regime by a strong perpendicular magnetic field. In the large separation (d) limit where retardation effects are essential we find i) that the Casimir force is quantized in units of 3\hbar c \alpha^2/(8\pi^2 d^4), and ii) that the force is repulsive for mirrors with same type of carrier, and attractive for mirrors with opposite types of carrier. The sign of the Casimir force is therefore electrically tunable in ambipolar materials like graphene. The Casimir force is suppressed when one mirror is a charge-neutral graphene system in a filling factor \nu=0 quantum Hall state.

id: 1208.3796
title: The Causal Poset is Directed but not Lattice Ordered
authors: Stanley P Gudder
comments: The counterexample is incorrect. Thanks to Rafael Sorkin and David Rideout for pointing this out
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3796
abstract: In the causal set approach to discrete quantum gravity the universe grows one element at a time in discrete steps. At each step the process has the form of a causal set (causet) and the "completed" universe is given by a path through a discretely growing chain of causets. The collection of causets forms a partially ordered set (poset) in a natural way. We first show that this poset is directed. We then give a counterexample which shows it is not lattice ordered.

id: 1208.3820
title: Improved approach to Fowler-Nordheim plot analysis
authors: Richard G. Forbes, Andreas Fischer, Marwan S. Mousa
comments: Paper is extended version of poster presented at the 25th International Vacuum Nanoelectronics Conference, Jeju island, South Korea, July 2012. Third version includes small changes made at proof correction stage
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3820
abstract: This article introduces an improved approach to Fowler-Nordheim (FN) plot analysis, based on a new type of intercept correction factor. This factor is more cleanly defined than the factor previously used. General enabling theory is given that applies to any type of FN plot of data that can be fitted using a FN-type equation. Practical use is limited to emission situations where slope correction factors can be reliably predicted. By making a series of well-defined assumptions and approximations, it is shown how the general formulas reduce to provide an improved theory of orthodox FN-plot data analysis. This applies to situations where the circuit current is fully controlled by the emitter characteristics, and tunneling can be treated as taking place through a Schottky-Nordheim (SN) barrier. For orthodox emission, good working formulas make numerical evaluation of the slope correction factor and the new intercept correction factor quick and straightforward. A numerical illustration, using simulated emission data, shows how to use this improved approach to derive values for parameters in the full FN-type equation for the SN barrier. Good self-consistency is demonstrated. The general enabling formulas also pave the way for research aimed at developing analogous data-analysis procedures for non-orthodox emission situations.

id: 1208.3838
title: Energy and condensate dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate excited by a moving red laser potential inside a power law trap cutoff by box potential hard walls
authors: Roger R. Sakhel, Asaad R. Sakhel
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3838
abstract: We explore the energy dynamics of a two dimensional (2D) trapped Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) excited by a moving red-detuned laser potential (RDLP). The trap is a combination of a power-law (PL) potential cutoff by a hard-wall box potential (HWBP). It is found that by a restricted measurment of the energy within the boundaries of the HWBP, the energy demonstrates oscillations indicative of solitons. It is then demonstrated, that the geometry of the PL potential influences the lifetime of these oscillations, i.e., the lifetime of the ensuing solitons inside the HWBP. We argue that the energy dynamics in this setup are a good tool for measuring their lifetime. It is also found, that the condensate density dynamics display oscillatory patterns of a magnitude and order controlled by the velocity of the RDLP. A connection to oscillations in the chemical potential dynamics is also discussed. Essentially, we suggest future experiments for this kind of setup, which would measure the phonon energy dynamics to trace the lifetime of solitons.

id: 1208.3861
title: The Symmetry Groups of Noncommutative Quantum Mechanics and Coherent State Quantization
authors: S. Hasibul Hassan Chowdhury, S. Twareque Ali
comments: 27 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 032101 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3861
abstract: We explore the group theoretical underpinning of noncommutative quantum mechanics for a system moving on the two-dimensional plane. We show that the pertinent groups for the system are the two-fold central extension of the Galilei group in $(2+1)$-space-time dimensions and the two-fold extension of the group of translations of $\mathbb R^4$. This latter group is just the standard Weyl-Heisenberg group of standard quantum mechanics with an additional central extension. We also look at a further extension of this group and discuss its significance to noncommutative quantum mechanics. We build unitary irreducible representations of these various groups and construct the associated families of coherent states. A coherent state quantization of the underlying phase space is then carried out, which is shown to lead to exactly the same commutation relations as usually postulated for this model of noncommutative quantum mechanics.

id: 1208.3889
title: Kramers degeneracy without eigenvectors
authors: Bryan W. Roberts
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 034103 (2012) [3 pages]
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3889
abstract: Wigner gave a well-known proof of Kramers degeneracy, for time reversal invariant systems containing an odd number of half-integer spin particles. But Wigner's proof relies on the assumption that the Hamiltonian has an eigenvector, and thus does not apply to many quantum systems of physical interest. This note illustrates an algebraic way to talk about Kramers degeneracy that does not appeal to eigenvectors, and provides a derivation of Kramers degeneracy in this more general context.

id: 1208.3902
title: Spectral moment sum rules for the retarded Green's function and self-energy of the inhomogeneous Bose-Hubbard model in equilibrium and nonequilibrium
authors: J. K. Freericks, V. Turkowski, H. R. Krishnamurthy, M. Knap
comments: (24 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013628 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3902
abstract: We derive expressions for the zeroth and the first three spectral moment sum rules for the retarded Green's function and for the zeroth and the first spectral moment sum rules for the retarded self-energy of the inhomogeneous Bose-Hubbard model in nonequilibrium, when the local on-site repulsion and the chemical potential are time-dependent, and in the presence of an external time-dependent electromagnetic field. We also evaluate these moments for equilibrium, where all time dependence and external fields vanish. Unlike similar sum rules for the Fermi-Hubbard model, in the Bose-Hubbard model case, the sum rules often depend on expectation values that cannot be determined simply from parameters in the Hamiltonian like the interaction strength and chemical potential, but require knowledge of equal time many-body expectation values from some other source. We show how one can approximately evaluate these expectation values for the Mott-insulating phase in a systematic strong-coupling expansion in powers of the hopping divided by the interaction. We compare the exact moments to moments of spectral functions calculated from a variety of different approximations and use them to benchmark their accuracy.

id: 1208.3912
title: Physical Origin of the Universal Three-body Parameter in Atomic Efimov Physics
authors: Pascal Naidon, Shimpei Endo, Masahito Ueda
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures ; (extension of the original letter into a regular article)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3912
abstract: We address the microscopic origin of the universal three-body parameter that fixes the spectrum of few-atom systems in the Efimov regime. We identify it with a nonadiabatic deformation of the three-atom system which occurs when three atoms come within the distance of the van der Waals length. This deformation explains the universal ratio of the scattering length at the triatomic resonance to the van der Waals length observed in several experiments and confirmed by numerical calculations.

id: 1208.3919
title: Tensor network states and algorithms in the presence of a global SU(2) symmetry
authors: Sukhwinder Singh, Guifre Vidal
comments: 32 pages, 37 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 195114 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3919
abstract: The benefits of exploiting the presence of symmetries in tensor network algorithms have been extensively demonstrated in the context of matrix product states (MPSs). These include the ability to select a specific symmetry sector (e.g. with a given particle number or spin), to ensure the exact preservation of total charge, and to significantly reduce computational costs. Compared to the case of a generic tensor network, the practical implementation of symmetries in the MPS is simplified by the fact that tensors only have three indices (they are trivalent, just as the Clebsch-Gordan coefficients of the symmetry group) and are organized as a one-dimensional array of tensors, without closed loops. Instead, a more complex tensor network, one where tensors have a larger number of indices and/or a more elaborate network structure, requires a more general treatment. In two recent papers, namely (i) [Phys. Rev. A 82, 050301 (2010)] and (ii) [Phys. Rev. B 83, 115125 (2011)], we described how to incorporate a global internal symmetry into a generic tensor network algorithm based on decomposing and manipulating tensors that are invariant under the symmetry. In (i) we considered a generic symmetry group G that is compact, completely reducible and multiplicity free, acting as a global internal symmetry. Then in (ii) we described the practical implementation of Abelian group symmetries. In this paper we describe the implementation of non-Abelian group symmetries in great detail and for concreteness consider an SU(2) symmetry. Our formalism can be readily extended to more exotic symmetries associated with conservation of total fermionic or anyonic charge. As a practical demonstration, we describe the SU(2)-invariant version of the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz and apply it to study the low energy spectrum of a quantum spin chain with a global SU(2) symmetry.

id: 1208.3970
title: Employing online quantum random number generators for generating truly random quantum states in Mathematica
authors: J.A. Miszczak
comments: New version of the package described in arXiv:1102.4598. Software available at this http URL
journal: Comput. Phys. Commun., Vol. 184 (2013), pp. 257-258
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Mathematical Software (cs.MS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3970
abstract: We present a new version of TRQS package for Mathematica computing system. The package allows harnessing quantum random number generators (QRNG) for investigating the statistical properties of quantum states. It implements a number of functions for generating random states. The new version of the package adds the ability to use the on-line quantum random number generator service and implements new functions for retrieving lists of random numbers. Thanks to the introduced improvements, the new version provides faster access to high-quality sources of random numbers and can be used in simulations requiring large amount of random data.

id: 1208.3997
title: Towards the chemical tuning of entanglement in molecular nanomagnets
authors: I. Siloi, F. Troiani
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.3997
abstract: Antiferromagnetic spin rings represent prototypical realizations of highly correlated, low-dimensional systems. Here we theoretically show how the introduction of magnetic defects by controlled chemical substitutions results in a strong spatial modulation of spin-pair entanglement within each ring. Entanglement between local degrees of freedom (individual spins) and collective ones (total ring spins) are shown to coexist in exchange-coupled ring dimers, as can be deduced from general symmetry arguments. We verify the persistence of these features at finite temperatures, and discuss them in terms of experimentally accessible observables.

id: 1208.4005
title: Pinning an Ion with an Intracavity Optical Lattice
authors: Rasmus B. Linnet, Ian D. Leroux, Mathieu Marciante, Aur¨¦lien Dantan, Michael Drewsen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; Text edited for clarity, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 233005 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4005
abstract: We report one-dimensional pinning of a single ion by an optical lattice. The lattice potential is produced by a standing-wave cavity along the rf-field-free axis of a linear Paul trap. The ion's localization is detected by measuring its fluorescence when excited by standing-wave fields with the same period, but different spatial phases. The experiments agree with an analytical model of the localization process, which we test against numerical simulations. For the best localization achieved, the ion's average coupling to the cavity field is enhanced from 50% to 81(3)% of its maximum possible value, and we infer that the ion is bound in a lattice well with over 97% probability.

id: 1208.4028
title: Quantum Gravity effect on the Quark-Gluon Plasma
authors: I. Elmashad, A. Farag Ali, L. I. Abou-Salem, Jameel-Un Nabi, A. Tawfik
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures with 3 eps graphs
journal: SOP Transactions on Theoretical Physics, 1, 1-6 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4028
abstract: The Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP), which has been predicted by various theories of quantum gravity near the Planck scale is implemented on deriving the thermodynamics of ideal Quark-Gluon Plasma (QGP) consisting of two massless quark flavors at the hadron-QGP phase equilibrium and at a vanishing chemical potential. The effective degrees of freedom and MIT bag pressure are utilized to distinguish between the hadronic and partonic phases. We find that GUP makes a non-negligible contribution to all thermodynamic quantities, especially at high temperatures. The asymptotic behavior of corresponding QGP thermodynamic quantities characterized by the Stephan-Boltzmann limit would be approached, when the GUP approach is taken into consideration.

id: 1208.4033
title: Understanding the entanglement entropy and spectra of 2D quantum systems through arrays of coupled 1D chains
authors: A. J. A. James, R. M. Konik
comments: 8 pages (4 + supplementary material). 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 241103(R) (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4033
abstract: We describe an algorithm for studying the entanglement entropy and spectrum of 2D systems, as a coupled array of $N$ one dimensional chains in their continuum limit. Using the algorithm to study the quantum Ising model in 2D, (both in its disordered phase and near criticality) we confirm the existence of an area law for the entanglement entropy and show that near criticality there is an additive piece scaling as $c_{eff}\log (N)/6$ with $c_{eff} \approx 1$. \textcolor{black}{Studying the entanglement spectrum, we show that entanglement gap scaling can be used to detect the critical point of the 2D model. When short range (area law) entanglement dominates we find (numerically and perturbatively) that this spectrum reflects the energy spectrum of a single quantum Ising chain.

id: 1208.4056
title: Capturing the re-entrant behaviour of one-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model
authors: M. Pino, J. Prior, S.R. Clark
comments: To appear in Physica Status Solidi (b). 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physica Status Solidi (b) 250, 51 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4056
abstract: The Bose Hubbard model (BHM) is an archetypal quantum lattice system exhibiting a quantum phase transition between its superfluid (SF) and Mott-insulator (MI) phase. Unlike in higher dimensions the phase diagram of the BHM in one dimension possesses regions in which increasing the hopping amplitude can result in a transition from MI to SF and then back to a MI. This type of re-entrance is well known in classical systems like liquid crystals yet its origin in quantum systems is still not well understood. Moreover, this unusual re-entrant character of the BHM is not easily captured in approximate analytical or numerical calculations. Here we study in detail the predictions of three different and widely used approximations; a multi-site mean-field decoupling, a finite-sized cluster calculation, and a real-space renormalization group (RG) approach. It is found that mean-field calculations do not reproduce re-entrance while finite-sized clusters display a precursor to re-entrance. Here we show for the first time that RG does capture the re-entrant feature and constitutes one of the simplest approximation able to do so. The differing abilities of these approaches reveals the importance of describing short-ranged correlations relevant to the kinetic energy of a MI in a particle-number symmetric way.

id: 1208.4109
title: Synthetic Topological Degeneracy by Anyon Condensation
authors: Yi-Zhuang You, Chao-Ming Jian, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 4 pages + references + 3 pages of supplementary material, 2 figures. reference updated
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 045106 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4109
abstract: Topological degeneracy is the degeneracy of the ground states in a many-body system in the large-system-size limit. Topological degeneracy cannot be lifted by any local perturbation of the Hamiltonian. The topological degeneracies on closed manifolds have been used to discover/define topological order in many-body systems, which contain excitations with fractional statistics. In this paper, we study a new type of topological degeneracy induced by condensing anyons along a line in 2D topological ordered states. Such topological degeneracy can be viewed as carried by each end of the line-defect, which is a generalization of Majorana zero-modes. The topological degeneracy can be used as a quantum memory. The ends of line-defects carry projective non-Abelian statistics, and braiding them allow us to perform fault tolerant quantum computations.

id: 1208.4121
title: Hyperfine structure splitting of the positron-helium ions $e^{+}[^3$He$(2^3S)]$ and $e^{+}[^4$He$(2^3S)]$
authors: Alexei M. Frolov
comments: 
journal: Piz'ma v ZhETF, v. 96, p. 541 (2012) [ JETP Letters, vol. 96, 491 (2012)]
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4121
abstract: The hyperfine structure splittings are determined for the lowest bound state in the positron-helium ion $e^{+}[^3$He$(2^3S)]$ and $e^{+}[^4$He$(2^3S)]$. In particular, we have fond that for the $e^{+}[{}^3$He$(2^3S)]$ ion one can observe the three following hyperfine structure splittinings: 5824.3986 $MHz$, 76466.5308 $MHz$ and 5824.4019 $MHz$. In the $e^{+}[{}^4$He$(2^3S)]$ ion only one hyperfine structure splitting 82963.0427 $MHz$ can be observed. All these values can be measured in modern experiments.

id: 1208.4205
title: Advantages of gated silicon single photon detectors
authors: T. Lunghi, E. Pomarico, C. Barreiro, D. Stucki, B. Sanguinetti, H. Zbinden
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4205
abstract: We present a gated silicon single photon detector based on a commercially available avalanche photodiode. Our detector achieves a photon detection efficiency of 45\pm5% at 808 nm with 2x 10^-6 dark count per ns at -30V of excess bias and -30{\deg}C. We compare gated and free-running detectors and show that this mode of operation has significant advantages in two representative experimental scenarios: detecting a single photon either hidden in faint continuous light or after a strong pulse. We also explore, at different temperatures and incident light intensities, the "charge persistence" effect, whereby a detector clicks some time after having been illuminated.

id: 1208.4232
title: Rotational Quantum Friction
authors: Rongkuo Zhao, Alejandro Manjavacas, F. Javier Garc¨ªa de Abajo, J. B. Pendry
comments: Published on PRL as Editors' Suggestion
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 123604 (2012)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4232
abstract: We investigate the frictional forces due to quantum fluctuations acting on a small sphere rotating near a surface. At zero temperature, we find the frictional force near a surface to be several orders of magnitude larger than that for the sphere rotating in vacuum. For metallic materials with typical conductivity, quantum friction is maximized by matching the frequency of rotation with the conductivity. Materials with poor conductivity are favored to obtain large quantum frictions. For semiconductor materials that are able to support surface plasmon polaritons, quantum friction can be further enhanced by several orders of magnitude due to the excitation of surface plasmon polaritons.

id: 1208.4291
title: Precision Measurement of Transition Matrix Elements via Light Shift Cancellation
authors: C. D. Herold, V. D. Vaidya, X. Li, S. L. Rolston, J. V. Porto, M. S. Safronova
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4291
abstract: We present a method for accurate determination of atomic transition matrix elements at the 10^{-3} level. Measurements of the ac Stark (light) shift around "magic-zero" wavelengths, where the light shift vanishes, provide precise constraints on the matrix elements. We make the first measurement of the 5s-6p matrix elements in rubidium by measuring the light shift around the 421 nm and 423 nm zeros with a sequence of standing wave pulses. In conjunction with existing theoretical and experimental data, we find 0.3236(9) e a_0 and 0.5230(8) e a_0 for the 5s-6p_{1/2} and 5s-6p_{3/2} elements, respectively, an order of magnitude more accurate than the best theoretical values. This technique can provide needed, accurate matrix elements for many atoms, including those used in atomic clocks, tests of fundamental symmetries, and quantum information.

id: 1208.4345
title: Directional spinning of molecules with sequences of femtosecond pulses
authors: C. Bloomquist, S. Zhdanovich, A. A. Milner, V. Milner
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4345
abstract: We present an analysis of two experimental approaches to controlling the directionality of molecular rotation with ultrashort laser pulses. The two methods are based on the molecular interaction with either a pair of pulses (a "double kick" scheme) or a longer pulse sequence (a "chiral pulse train" scheme). In both cases, rotational control is achieved by varying the polarization of and the time delay between the consecutive laser pulses. Using the technique of polarization sensitive resonance-enhanced multi-photon ionization, we show that both methods produce significant rotational directionality. We demonstrate that increasing the number of excitation pulses supplements the ability to control the sense of molecular rotation with quantum state selectivity, i.e. predominant excitation of a single rotational state. We also demonstrate the ability of both techniques to generate counter-rotation of molecular nuclear spin isomers (here, ortho- and para-nitrogen) and molecular isotopologues (here, 14N_2 and 15N_2).

id: 1208.4356
title: On quantization of nondispersive wave packets
authors: M. V. Altaisky, N. E. Kaputkina
comments: LaTeX, 10 pages
journal: J.Math. Phys. 54(2013)102101
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4356
abstract: Canonical commutation relations for the Bateman-Hillion type nondispersive wave packets are constructed

id: 1208.4375
title: A Requiem For Schr?dinger's Cat
authors: Thomas L. Wilson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4375
abstract: It is pointed out that Schr\"odinger's celebrated "cat" paradox contains a simple error in reasoning regarding the definition of life. It is then shown that there is no paradox in the context of life as we currently understand it.

id: 1208.4438
title: Spontaneous Generation of a Crystalline Ground State in a Higher Derivative Theory
authors: Subir Ghosh
comments: Paper revised, title changed, change in interpretation of previous results, references added, accepted for publication in Physica A
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4438
abstract: The possibility of Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking in momentum space in a generic Lifshitz scalar model - a non-relativistic scalar field theory with higher spatial derivative terms - has been studied. We show that the minimum energy state, the ground state, has a lattice structure, where the translation invariance of the continuum theory is reduced to a discrete translation symmetry. The scale of translation symmetry breaking (or induced lattice spacing) is proportional to the inverse of the momentum of the condensate particle. The crystalline ground state is stable under excitations below a certain critical velocity. The small fluctuations above the ground state can have a phonon like dispersion under suitable choice of parameters. At the beginning we have discussed the effects of next to nearest neighbour interaction terms in a model of linear triatomic molecule depicted by a linear system of three particles of same mass connected by identical springs. This model is relevant since in the continuum limit the next to nearest neighbour interaction terms generate higher (spatial) derivative wave equation, the main topic of this paper.

id: 1208.4448
title: Spectral singularities in PT-symmetric periodic finite-gap systems
authors: Francisco Correa, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures; a difference between spectral singularities and exceptional points specified, the version to appear in PRD
journal: Phys. Rev. D 86, 085028 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4448
abstract: The origin of spectral singularities in finite-gap singly periodic PT-symmetric quantum systems is investigated. We show that they emerge from a limit of band-edge states in a doubly periodic finite gap system when the imaginary period tends to infinity. In this limit, the energy gaps are contracted and disappear, every pair of band states of the same periodicity at the edges of a gap coalesces and transforms into a singlet state in the continuum. As a result, these spectral singularities turn out to be analogous to those in the non-periodic systems, where they appear as zero-width resonances. Under the change of topology from a non-compact into a compact one, spectral singularities in the class of periodic systems we study are transformed into exceptional points. The specific degeneration related to the presence of finite number of spectral singularities and exceptional points is shown to be coherently reflected by a hidden, bosonized nonlinear supersymmetry.

id: 1208.4472
title: Optical modes in oxide-apertured micropillar cavities
authors: Cristian Bonato, Jan Gudat, Keesjan de Vries, Hyochul Kim, Susanna M. Thon, Pierre M. Petroff, Martin P. van Exter, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4472
abstract: We present a detailed experimental characterization of the spectral and spatial structure of the confined optical modes for oxide-apertured micropillar cavities, showing good-quality Hermite-Gaussian profiles, easily mode-matched to external fields. We further derive a relation between the frequency splitting of the transverse modes and the expected Purcell factor. Finally, we describe a technique to retrieve the profile of the confining refractive index distribution from the spatial profiles of the modes.

id: 1208.4473
title: Series solution of a central potential problem with three-term recursion relation
authors: Jishnu Goswami, Chandan Mondal, Dipankar Chakrabarti
comments: 
journal: JPMS 3(2), 10 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4473
abstract: The series solution of the radial part of the Schr\"odinger equation for simultaneous coulomb and harmonic potential involves three-term recursion relation and is thus difficult to solve for bound states. We have suggested a simple method to solve for low lying states. Finite polynomial solutions exist only if the coulomb and oscillator potentials are nontrivially related.

id: 1208.4474
title: On the Nature of Reality
authors: Frederico R. Pfrimer
comments: Comments and related references are welcome to pfrimer.physics@gmail.com
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4474
abstract: What is the nature of reality? How should be an answer to this question? At this level, we are so deep that all our concepts are obscure. Quantum theory (QT) is at this level. The quest for interpreting it fails because the clarity of our actual fundamental concepts in ordinary language cannot match the precision of the theory's mathematical formalism. The interpretation of quantum mechanics should define and bring clarity to fundamental concepts; not simply rely over them. Quantum theory requires a new worldview, the one that will make it understandable. We discuss on the formulation and interpretation of closed, and final theories, in other words, completely axiomatic theories that define their own conceptual framework, and closed theories that cannot be made simpler. We claim that everything we can properly say about a theory follows from its interpretation, and that interpreting is saying the meaning of each of its mathematical statements. We argue that quantum mechanics is a closed theory; and, therefore, that part of it is part of the final or fundamental theory of physics (FTP). We propose a new entirely axiomatic formulation of part of quantum theory (including all its mathematical framework) in which new powerful and useful elements are added to the existing formalism. Our interpretation is straightforward: it allows us reading or saying the meaning of each of the theory's axiom, theorem or element. We state that the proposed theory is the FTP. Its interpretation may dissolve most of the existing paradoxes around QT. The principle of excluded middle is not valid in general. Both epistemic and ontic elements are present in the theory since it is a theory of knowledge and truth. This and other fundamental concepts are defined by the theory, which can represent both reality and our knowledge about it. Aesthetics is one of its key features.

id: 1208.4504
title: Backscattering Differential Ghost Imaging in Turbid Media
authors: M. Bina, D. Magatti, M. Molteni, A. Gatti, L. A. Lugiato, F. Ferri
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 083901 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4504
abstract: In this Letter we present experimental results concerning the retrieval of images of absorbing objects immersed in turbid media via differential ghost imaging (DGI) in a backscattering configuration. The method has been applied, for the first time to our knowledge, to the imaging of small thin black objects located at different depths inside a turbid solution of polystyrene nanospheres and its performances assessed via comparison with standard imaging techniques. A simple theoretical model capable of describing the basic optics of DGI in turbid media is proposed.

id: 1208.4523
title: Dual electromagnetism: Helicity, spin, momentum, and angular momentum
authors: Konstantin Y. Bliokh, Aleksandr Y. Bekshaev, Franco Nori
comments: 25 pages, 1 figure
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 033026 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4523
abstract: The dual symmetry between electric and magnetic fields is an important intrinsic property of Maxwell equations in free space. This symmetry underlies the conservation of optical helicity, and, as we show here, is closely related to the separation of spin and orbital degrees of freedom of light (the helicity flux coincides with the spin angular momentum). However, in the standard field-theory formulation of electromagnetism, the field Lagrangian is not dual symmetric. This leads to problematic dual-asymmetric forms of the canonical energy-momentum, spin, and orbital angular momentum tensors. Moreover, we show that the components of these tensors conflict with the helicity and energy conservation laws. To resolve this discrepancy between the symmetries of the Lagrangian and Maxwell equations, we put forward a dual-symmetric Lagrangian formulation of classical electromagnetism. This dual electromagnetism preserves the form of Maxwell equations, yields meaningful canonical energy-momentum and angular momentum tensors, and ensures a self-consistent separation of the spin and orbital degrees of freedom. This provides rigorous derivation of results suggested in other recent approaches. We make the Noether analysis of the dual symmetry and all the Poincar\'e symmetries, examine both local and integral conserved quantities, and show that only the dual electromagnetism naturally produces a complete self-consistent set of conservation laws. We also discuss the observability of physical quantities distinguishing the standard and dual theories, as well as relations to quantum weak measurements and various optical experiments.

id: 1208.4652
title: Regression relation for pure quantum states and its implications for efficient computing
authors: Tarek A. Elsayed, Boris V. Fine
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures; minor textual corrections; parts rearranged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 070404 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4652
abstract: We obtain a modified version of the Onsager regression relation for the expectation values of quantum-mechanical operators in pure quantum states of isolated many-body quantum systems. We use the insights gained from this relation to show that high-temperature time correlation functions in many-body quantum systems can be controllably computed without complete diagonalization of the Hamiltonians, using instead the direct integration of the Schroedinger equation for randomly sampled pure states. This method is also applicable to quantum quenches and other situations describable by time-dependent many-body Hamiltonians. The method implies exponential reduction of the computer memory requirement in comparison with the complete diagonalization. We illustrate the method by numerically computing infinite-temperature correlation functions for translationally invariant Heisenberg chains of up to 29 spins 1/2. Thereby, we also test the spin diffusion hypothesis and find it in a satisfactory agreement with the numerical results. Both the derivation of the modified regression relation and the justification of the computational method are based on the notion of quantum typicality.

id: 1208.4654
title: Direct comparison of a Ca+ single ion clock against a Sr optical lattice clock
authors: Kensuke Matsubara, Hidekazu Hachisu, Ying Li, Shigeo Nagano, Clayton Locke, Asahiko Nogami, Masatoshi Kajita, Kazuhiro Hayasaka, Tetsuya Ido, Mizuhiko Hosokawa
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 20 (2012) 22034-22041
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4654
abstract: Optical frequency comparison of the 40Ca+ clock transition \nu_{Ca} (2S1/2-2D5/2, 729nm) against the 87Sr optical lattice clock transition \nu_{Sr}(1S0-3P0, 698nm) has resulted in a frequency ratio \nu_{Ca} / \nu_{Sr} = 0.957 631 202 358 049 9(2 3). The rapid nature of optical comparison allowed the statistical uncertainty of frequency ratio \nu_{Ca} / \nu_{Sr} to reach 1x10-15 in only 1000s and yielded a value consistent with that calculated from separate absolute frequency measurements of \nu_{Ca} using the International Atomic Time (TAI) link. The total uncertainty of the frequency ratio using optical comparison (free from microwave link uncertainties) is smaller than that obtained using absolute frequency measurement, demonstrating the advantage of optical frequency evaluation. We report the absolute frequency of ^{40}Ca+ with a systematic uncertainty 14 times smaller than our previous measurement [1].

id: 1208.4671
title: Revisiting the Excitation Energy Transfer in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson Complex
authors: X. X. Yi, X. Y. Zhang, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1203.0052
journal: European Physical Journal D 67,172 (2013)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4671
abstract: It is believed that the quantum coherence itself cannot explain the very high excitation energy transfer (EET) efficiency in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex. In this paper, we show that this is not the case if the inter-site couplings take complex values. By phenomenologically introducing phases into the inter-site couplings, we obtain the EET efficiency as high as 0.8972 in contrast to 0.6781 with real inter-site couplings. Dependence of the excitation energy transfer efficiency on the initial states is elaborated. Effects of fluctuations in the site energies and inter-site couplings are also examined.

id: 1208.4699
title: Minimization procedure in reduced density matrix functional theory by means of an effective noninteracting system
authors: Tim Baldsiefen, E. K. U. Gross
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4699
abstract: In this work, we propose a self-consistent minimization procedure for functionals in reduced density matrix functional theory. We introduce an effective noninteracting system at finite temperature which is capable of reproducing the groundstate one-reduced density matrix of an interacting system at zero temperature. By introducing the concept of a temperature tensor the minimization with respect to the occupation numbers is shown to be greatly improved.

id: 1208.4703
title: Reduced density matrix functional theory at finite temperature. I. Theoretical foundations
authors: Tim Baldsiefen, E. K. U. Gross
comments: 12 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4703
abstract: An ab-initio approach to the description of grand canonical ensembles in thermal equilibrium, having local or nonlocal external potentials, will be presented. To this end a variational principle for the grand potential \Omega\ of the system under consideration with respect to its one-reduced density matrix \gamma\ will be established. The domain of \Omega[\gamma] will be shown to be determined by a simple set of constraints, making it suitable for numerical minimization. We will furthermore prove the existence of an analogon to the Kohn-Sham system of density functional theory, i.e. a system of noninteracting particles reproducing the one-reduced density matrix of the interacting system at finite temperature. Starting from this Kohn-Sham system as unperturbed system, we deduce a many-body approach to iteratively construct approximate functionals for the grand potential.

id: 1208.4708
title: Observation of Zeeman shift in the rubidium D2 line using an optical nanofiber in vapor
authors: Amy Watkins, Vibhuti Bhushan Tiwari, Jonathan M. Ward, S¨ªle Nic Chormaic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4708
abstract: We report on the observation of a Zeeman shift (order of 100 MHz) of the Doppler-broadened D2 transition of both 85Rb and 87Rb isotopes via transmission through a tapered optical nanofiber in the presence of a DC magnetic field. Linearly-polarized light propagating in the nanofiber is analyzed as a superposition of two orthogonally circularly-polarized orientations, {\sigma}+ and {\sigma}-. In the absence of the magnetic field, the absorption of these polarizations by the atomic vapor, via the evanescent field at the waist of the nanofiber, is degenerate. When a weak magnetic field is applied parallel to the propagating light, this degeneracy is lifted and relative shifts in the resonance frequencies are detected. Typical linear shift rates of 1.6 MHz/G and -2.0 MHz/G were observed. We also demonstrate a dichroic atomic vapor laser lock line shape by monitoring the real-time subtraction of the two magnetically-shifted absorption spectra. This is particularly interesting for magneto-optical experiments as it could be directly implemented for diode laser frequency-stabilization.

id: 1208.4710
title: Information Geometry and Quantum Phase Transitions in the Dicke Model
authors: Anshuman Dey, Subhash Mahapatra, Pratim Roy, Tapobrata Sarkar
comments: References and clarifications added. Final version to appear in Physical Review E
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4710
abstract: We study information geometry of the Dicke model, in the thermodynamic limit. The scalar curvature $R$ of the Riemannian metric tensor induced on the parameter space of the model is calculated. We analyze this both with and without the rotating wave approximation, and show that the parameter manifold is smooth even at the phase transition, and that the scalar curvature is continuous across the phase boundary.

id: 1208.4724
title: Self-adjoint Operators as Functions I: Lattices, Galois Connections, and the Spectral Order
authors: Andreas Doering, Barry Dewitt
comments: 34 pages, no figures; v2: improved presentation, minor corrections, all main results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4724
abstract: Observables of a quantum system, described by self-adjoint operators in a von Neumann algebra or affiliated with it in the unbounded case, form a conditionally complete lattice when equipped with the spectral order. Using this order-theoretic structure, we develop a new perspective on quantum observables. In this first paper (of two), we show that self-adjoint operators affiliated with a von Neumann algebra can equivalently be described as certain real-valued functions on the projection lattice of the algebra, which we call q-observable functions. Bounded self-adjoint operators correspond to q-observable functions with compact image on non-zero projections. These functions, originally defined in a similar form by de Groote, are most naturally seen as adjoints (in the categorical sense) of spectral families. We show how they relate to the daseinisation mapping from the topos approach to quantum theory. Moreover, the q-observable functions form a conditionally complete lattice which is shown to be order-isomorphic to the lattice of self-adjoint operators with respect to the spectral order. In a subsequent paper, we will give an interpretation of q-observable functions in terms of quantum probability theory, and using results from the topos approach to quantum theory, we will provide a joint sample space for all quantum observables.

id: 1208.4735
title: Illustrating field emission theory by using Lauritsen plots of transmission probability and barrier strength
authors: Richard G. Forbes, Jonathan H. B. Deane, Andreas Fischer, Marwan S. Mousa
comments: Based on a poster presented at the 25th International Vacuum Nanoelectronics Conference, Jeju, S. Korea, July 2012. Version 3 incorporates small changes made at proof stage
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4735
abstract: This technical note relates to the theory of cold field electron emission (CFE). It starts by suggesting that, to emphasize common properties in relation to CFE theory, the term 'Lauritsen plot' could be used to describe all graphical plots made with the reciprocal of barrier field (or the reciprocal of a quantity proportional to barrier field) on the horizontal axis. It then argues that Lauritsen plots related to barrier strength (G) and transmission probability (D) could play a useful role in discussion of CFE theory. Such plots would supplement conventional Fowler-Nordheim (FN) plots. All these plots would be regarded as particular types of Lauritsen plot. The Lauritsen plots of -G and lnD can be used to illustrate how basic aspects of FN tunnelling theory are influenced by the mathematical form of the tunnelling barrier. These, in turn, influence local emission current density and emission current. Illustrative applications used in this note relate to the well-known exact triangular and Schottky-Nordheim barriers, and to the Coulomb barrier (i.e., the electrostatic component of the electron potential energy barrier outside a model spherical emitter). For the Coulomb barrier, a good analytical series approximation has been found for the barrier-form correction factor; this can be used to predict the existence (and to some extent the properties) of related curvature in FN plots.

id: 1208.4897
title: High-Resolution Imaging and Optical Control of Bose-Einstein Condensates in an Atom Chip Magnetic Trap
authors: Evan A. Salim, Seth C. Caliga, Jonathan B. Pfeiffer, Dana Z. Anderson
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, 12 references
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4897
abstract: A high-resolution projection and imaging system for ultracold atoms is implemented using a compound silicon and glass atom chip. The atom chip is metalized to enable magnetic trapping while glass regions enable high numerical aperture optical access to atoms residing in the magnetic trap about 100 microns below the chip surface. The atom chip serves as a wall of the vacuum system, which enables the use of commercial microscope components for projection and imaging. Holographically generated light patterns are used to optically slice a cigar-shaped magnetic trap into separate regions; this has been used to simultaneously generate up to four Bose-condensates. Using fluorescence techniques we have demonstrated in-trap imaging resolution down to 2.5 microns

id: 1208.4931
title: Double universality of a quantum phase transition in spinor condensates: the Kibble-?urek mechanism and a conservation law
authors: Tomasz Swislocki, Emilia Witkowska, Jacek Dziarmaga, Michal Matuszewski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 045303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4931
abstract: We consider a phase transition from antiferromagnetic to phase separated ground state in a spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate of ultracold atoms. We demonstrate the occurrence of two scaling laws, for the number of spin fluctuations just after the phase transition, and for the number of spin domains in the final, stable configuration. Only the first scaling can be explained by the standard Kibble-\.Zurek mechanism. We explain the occurrence of two scaling laws by a model including post-selection of spin domains due to the conservation of condensate magnetization.

id: 1208.4939
title: Magnetic dipole transitions in the OH $A\,^2¦²^+ \leftarrow X\,^2¦°$ system
authors: Moritz Kirste, Xingan Wang, Gerard Meijer, Koos B. Gubbels, Ad van der Avoird, Gerrit C. Groenenboom, Sebastiaan Y. T. van de Meerakker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4939
abstract: We report on the observation of magnetic dipole allowed transitions in the well-characterized $A\,^2\Sigma^+ - X\,^2\Pi$ band system of the OH radical. A Stark decelerator in combination with microwave Rabi spectroscopy is used to control the populations in selected hyperfine levels of both $\Lambda$-doublet components of the $X\,^2\Pi_{3/2},v=0,J=3/2$ ground state. Theoretical calculations presented in this paper predict that the magnetic dipole transitions in the $\nu'=1 \leftarrow \nu=0$ band are weaker than the electric dipole transitions by a factor of $2.58\times 10^3$ only, i.e., much less than commonly believed. Our experimental data confirm this prediction.

id: 1208.4941
title: Stability of Excited Dressed States with Spin-Orbit Coupling
authors: Long Zhang, Jin-Yi Zhang, Si-Cong Ji, Zhi-Dong Du, Hui Zhai, Youjin Deng, Shuai Chen, Peng Zhang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4.5 pages, 4 figures, the latest version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 011601(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.4941
abstract: We study the decay behaviors of ultracold atoms in metastable states with spin-orbit coupling (SOC), and demonstrate that there are two SOC-induced decay mechanisms. One arises from the trapping potential and the other is due to interatomic collision. We present general schemes for calculating decay rates from these two mechanisms, and illustrate how the decay rates can be controlled by experimental parameters.We experimentally measure the decay rates over a broad parameter region, and the results agree well with theoretical calculations. This work provides an insight for both quantum simulation involving metastable dressed states and studies on few-body problems with SO coupling.

id: 1208.5001
title: Lindblad theory of dynamical decoherence of quantum-dot excitons
authors: P. R. Eastham, A. O. Spracklen, J. Keeling
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures. v2: Typos corrected, additional discussion and figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 195306 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5001
abstract: We use the Bloch-Redfield-Wangsness theory to calculate the effects of acoustic phonons in coherent control experiments, where quantum-dot excitons are driven by shaped laser pulses. This theory yields a generalized Lindblad equation for the density operator of the dot, with time-dependent damping and decoherence due to phonon transitions between the instantaneous dressed states. It captures similar physics to the form recently applied to Rabi oscillation experiments [A. J. Ramsay et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 017402 (2010)], but guarantees positivity of the density operator. At sufficiently low temperatures, it gives results equivalent to those of fully non-Markovian approaches [S. Luker et al., Phys. Rev. B 85, 121302 (2012)], but is significantly simpler to simulate. Several applications of this theory are discussed. We apply it to adiabatic rapid passage experiments, and show how the pulses can be shaped to maximize the probability of creating a single exciton using a frequency-swept laser pulse. We also use this theory to propose and analyze methods to determine the phonon density of states experimentally, i.e. phonon spectroscopy, by exploring the dependence of the effective damping rates on the driving field.

id: 1208.5014
title: Revealing Majorana Fermion states in a superfluid of cold atoms subject to a harmonic potential
authors: Tao Zhou, Z. D. Wang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 155114 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5014
abstract: We here explore Majorana Fermion states in an s-wave superfluid of cold atoms in the presence of spin-orbital coupling and an additional harmonic potential. The superfluid boundary is induced by a harmonic trap. Two locally separated Majorana Fermion states are revealed numerically based on the self-consistent Bogoliubov-de Gennes equations. The local density of states are calculated, through which the signatures of Majorana excitations may be indicated experimentally.

id: 1208.5113
title: On the Lossless Property of a Class of Nonlinear Quantum Systems
authors: Aline I. Maalouf, Ian R.Petersen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5113
abstract: In this paper, the physical realizability condition for a specific class of nonlinear quantum systems is related to the lossless property of nonlinear dissipative systems having a specific storage function.

id: 1208.5135
title: Buried heterostructure vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser with semiconductor mirrors
authors: G. Zhao, Y. Zhang, D.G. Deppe, K. Konthasinghe, A. Muller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5135
abstract: We report a buried heterostructure vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser fabricated by epitaxial regrowth over an InGaAs quantum well gain medium. The regrowth technique enables microscale lateral confinement that preserves a high cavity quality factor (loaded $Q\approx$ 4000) and eliminates parasitic charging effects found in existing approaches. Under optimal spectral overlap between gain medium and cavity mode (achieved here at $T$ = 40 K) lasing was obtained with an incident optical power as low as $P_{\rm th}$ = 10 mW ($\lambda_{\rm p}$ = 808 nm). The laser linewidth was found to be $\approx$3 GHz at $P_{\rm p}\approx$ 5 $P_{\rm th}$.

id: 1208.5189
title: Biorthogonal Quantum Mechanics: Super-Quantum Correlations and Expectation Values without Definite Probabilities
authors: Lay Nam Chang, Zachary Lewis, Djordje Minic, Tatsu Takeuchi
comments: 28 pages LaTeX. Uses svjour2.cls. 2 pdf figures. Updated bibliography
journal: 2013 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 485306
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5189
abstract: We propose mutant versions of quantum mechanics constructed on vector spaces over the finite Galois fields GF(3) and GF(9). The mutation we consider here is distinct from what we proposed in previous papers on Galois field quantum mechanics. In this new mutation, the canonical expression for expectation values is retained instead of that for probabilities. In fact, probabilities are indeterminate. Furthermore, it is shown that the mutant quantum mechanics over the finite field GF(9) exhibits super-quantum correlations (i.e. the Bell-Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt bound is 4). We comment on the fundamental physical importance of these results in the context of quantum gravity.

id: 1208.5262
title: Early Atomic Models - From Mechanical to Quantum (1904-1913)
authors: Charles Baily
comments: 58 Pages + References, 8 Figures. Accepted for publication in the European Physical Journal H (Historical Perspectives on Contemporary Physics). V2 - minor typos corrected and a footnote added to p.29
journal: European Physical Journal H, 38, 1-38 (2013)
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5262
abstract: A complete history of early atomic models would fill volumes, but a reasonably coherent tale of the path from mechanical atoms to the quantum can be told by focusing on the relevant work of three great contributors to atomic physics, in the critically important years between 1904 and 1913: J. J. Thomson, Ernest Rutherford and Niels Bohr. We first examine the origins of Thomson's mechanical atomic models, from his ethereal vortex atoms in the early 1880's, to the myriad "corpuscular" atoms he proposed following the discovery of the electron in 1897. Beyond predictions for the periodicity of the elements, the application of Thomson's atoms to problems in scattering and absorption led to quantitative predictions that were confirmed by experiments with high-velocity electrons traversing thin sheets of metal. Still, the much more massive and energetic {\alpha}-particles being studied by Rutherford were better suited for exploring the interior of the atom, and careful measurements on the angular dependence of their scattering eventually allowed him to infer the existence of an atomic nucleus. Niels Bohr was particularly troubled by the radiative instability inherent to any mechanical atom, and succeeded in 1913 where others had failed in the prediction of emission spectra, by making two bold hypotheses that were in contradiction to the laws of classical physics, but necessary in order to account for experimental facts.

id: 1208.5358
title: Singularities of the Casimir Energy for Quantum Field Theories with Lifshitz Dimensions
authors: V. K. Oikonomou
comments: Major Revision, Similar to Journal Version
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5358
abstract: We study the singularities that the Casimir energy of a scalar field in spacetimes with Lifshitz dimensions exhibits, and provide expressions of the energy in terms of multidimensional zeta functions for the massless case. Using the zeta-regularization method, we found that when the 4-dimensional spacetime has Lifshitz dimensions, then for specific values of the critical exponents, the Casimir energy is singular, in contrast to the non-Lifshitz case. Particularly we found that when the value of the critical exponent is $z=2$, the Casimir energy is singular, while for $z\geq 3$ the Casimir energy is regular. In addition, when flat extra dimensions are considered, the critical exponents of the Lifshitz dimensions affect drastically the Casimir energy, introducing singularities that are absent in the non-Lifshitz case. We also discuss the Casimir energy in the context of braneworld models and the perspective of Lifshitz dimensions in such framework.

id: 1208.5450
title: Majorana fermions in one-dimensional spin-orbit coupled Fermi gases
authors: Ran Wei, Erich J. Mueller
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 86, 063604 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5450
abstract: We theoretically study trapped one-dimensional Fermi gases in the presence of spin-orbit coupling induced by Raman lasers. The gas changes from a conventional (non-topological) superfluid to a topological superfluid as one increases the intensity of the Raman lasers above a critical chemical-potential dependent value. Solving the Bogoliubov-de Gennes equations self-consistently, we calculate the density of states in real and momentum space at finite temperatures. We study Majorana fermions (MFs) which appear at the boundaries between topologically trivial and topologically non-trivial regions. We linearize the trap near the location of a MF, finding an analytic expression for the localized MF wavefunction and the gap between the MF state and other edge states.

id: 1208.5470
title: Resonantly enhanced pair production in a simple diatomic model
authors: Fran?ois Fillion-Gourdeau, Emmanuel Lorin, Andr¨¦ D. Bandrauk
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 013002 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5470
abstract: A new mechanism for the production of electron-positron pairs from the interaction of a laser field and a fully stripped diatomic molecule in the tunneling regime is presented. When the laser field is turned off, the Dirac operator has resonances in both the positive and the negative energy continua while bound states are in the mass gap. When this system is immersed in a strong laser field, the resonances move in the complex energy plane: the negative energy resonances are pushed to higher energies while the bound states are Stark shifted. It is argued here that there is a pair production enhancement at the crossing of resonances by looking at a simple 1-D model: the nuclei are modeled simply by Dirac delta potential wells while the laser field is assumed to be static and of finite spatial extent. The average rate for the number of electron-positron pairs produced is evaluated and the results are compared to the single nucleus and to the free cases. It is shown that positrons are produced by the Resonantly Enhanced Pair Production (REPP) mechanism, which is analogous to the resonantly enhanced ionization of molecular physics. This phenomenon could be used to increase the number of pairs produced at low field strength, allowing the study of the Dirac vacuum.

id: 1208.5473
title: Probing dynamics of an electron-spin ensemble via a superconducting resonator
authors: V. Ranjan, G. de Lange, R. Schutjens, T. Debelhoir, J. P. Groen, D. Szombati, D. J. Thoen, T. M. Klapwijk, R. Hanson, L. DiCarlo
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, and Supplementary Information (2 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 067004 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5473
abstract: We study spin relaxation and diffusion in an electron-spin ensemble of nitrogen impurities in diamond at low temperature (0.25-1.2 K) and polarizing magnetic field (80-300 mT). Measurements exploit mode- and temperature-dependent coupling of hyperfine-split sub-ensembles to the resonator. Temperature-independent spin linewidth and relaxation time suggest that spin diffusion limits spin relaxation. Depolarization of one sub-ensemble by resonant pumping of another indicates fast cross-relaxation compared to spin diffusion, with implications on use of sub-ensembles as independent quantum memories.

id: 1208.5475
title: Optimization of the damped quantum search
authors: Neris Ilano, Cristine Villagonzalo, Ronald Banzon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5475
abstract: The damped quantum search proposed in [A. Mizel, Phys. Rev. Lett., 102 150501 (2009)] was analyzed by calculating the highest possible probability of finding the target state in each iteration. A new damping parameter that depends on the number of iterations was obtained, this was compared to the critical damping parameter for different values of target to database size ratio. The result shows that the range of the new damping parameter as a function of the target to database size ratio increases as the number of iterations is increased. Furthermore, application of the new damping parameter per iteration on the damped quantum search scheme shows a significant improvement on some target to database size ratio (i.e. greater than or equal to 50% maximum percentage difference) over the critically damped quantum search.

id: 1208.5593
title: Photonic Rutherford Scattering: A Classical and Quantum Mechanical Analogy in Ray- and Wave-Optics
authors: Markus Selmke, Frank Cichos
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5593
abstract: Using Fermat's least optical path principle the family of ray-trajectories through a special but common type of a gradient refractive index lens, n(r)=n_0+\Delta n R/r, is solved analytically. The solution, i.e. the ray-equation r(phi), is shown to be closely related to the famous Rutherford scattering and therefore termed photonic Rutherford scattering. It is shown that not only do these classical limits correspond, but also the wave-mechanical pictures coincide: The time-independent Schr\"odingier equation and the inhomogeneous Helmholz equation permit the same mapping between massive particle scattering and diffracted optical scalar waves. Scattering of narrow wave-packets finally recovers the classical trajectories. The analysis suggests that photothermal single particle microscopy infact measures photonic Rutherford scattering in specific limits.

id: 1208.5628
title: Phonon-induced dephasing of chromium colour centres in diamond
authors: Tina Muller, Igor Aharonovich, Zhe Wang, Xin Yuan, Stefania Castelletto, Steven Prawer, Mete Atature
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5628
abstract: We report on the coherence properties of single photons from chromium-based colour centres in diamond. We use field-correlation and spectral lineshape measurements to reveal the interplay between slow spectral wandering and fast dephasing mechanisms as a function of temperature. We show that the zero-phonon transition frequency and its linewidth follow a power-law dependence on temperature indicating that the dominant fast dephasing mechanisms for these centres are direct electron-phonon coupling and phonon-modulated Coulomb coupling to nearby impurities. Further, the observed reduction in the quantum yield for photon emission as a function of temperature is consistent with the opening of additional nonradiative channels through thermal activation to higher energy states predominantly and indicates a near-unity quantum efficiency at 4 K.

id: 1208.5629
title: Triplet supercurrent in ferromagnetic Josephson junctions by spin injection
authors: A.G. Mal'shukov, Arne Brataas
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.B 86, 094517 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5629
abstract: We show that injecting nonequilibrium spins into the superconducting leads strongly enhances the stationary Josephson current through a superconductor-ferromagnet-superconductor junction. The resulting long-range super-current through a ferromagnet is carried by triplet Cooper pairs that are formed in s-wave superconductors by the combined effects of spin injection and exchange interaction. We quantify the exchange interaction in terms of Landau Fermi-liquid factors. The magnitude and direction of the long-range Josephson current can be manipulated by varying the angles of the injected polarizations with respect to the magnetization in the ferromagnet.

id: 1208.5651
title: Interference-induced peak splitting in EUV superfluorescence
authors: Ni Cui, Christoph H. Keitel, Mihai Macovei
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters 38, 570-572 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5651
abstract: We investigate the laser-induced quantum interference in EUV superfluorescence occurring in a dense gas of $\Lambda$-type helium atoms coupled by a coherent laser field in the visible region. Due to the constructive interatomic and intraatomic interferences, the superfluorescence can split in two pulses conveniently controlled by the gas density and intensity of the driving field, suggesting potential applications for pump-probe experiments.

id: 1208.5655
title: Effects of quantum gravity on the inflationary parameters and thermodynamics of the early universe
authors: A. Tawfik, H. Magdy, A. Farag Ali
comments: 15 graghes, 7 figures with 17 eps graphs
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav. 45 (2013) 1227-1246
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5655
abstract: The effects of generalized uncertainty principle (GUP) on the inflationary dynamics and the thermodynamics of the early universe are studied. Using the GUP approach, the tensorial and scalar density fluctuations in the inflation era are evaluated and compared with the standard case. We find a good agreement with the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe data. Assuming that a quantum gas of scalar particles is confined within a thin layer near the apparent horizon of the Friedmann-Lemaitre-Robertson-Walker universe which satisfies the boundary condition, the number and entropy densities and the free energy arising form the quantum states are calculated using the GUP approach. A qualitative estimation for effects of the quantum gravity on all these thermodynamic quantities is introduced.

id: 1208.5672
title: Increased surface flashover voltage in microfabricated devices
authors: R. C. Sterling, M. D. Hughes, C. J. Mellor, W. K. Hensinger
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 143504 (2013)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5672
abstract: With the demand for improved performance in microfabricated devices, the necessity to apply greater electric fields and voltages becomes evident. When operating in vacuum, the voltage is typically limited by surface flashover forming along the surface of a dielectric. By modifying the fabrication process we have discovered it is possible to more than double the flashover voltage. Our finding has significant impact on the realization of next-generation micro- and nano-fabricated devices and for the fabrication of on-chip ion trap arrays for the realization of scalable ion quantum technology.

id: 1208.5719
title: Heteronuclear collisions between laser-cooled metastable neon atoms
authors: Jan Sch¨¹tz, Thomas Feldker, Holger John, Gerhard Birkl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022713 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5719
abstract: We investigate heteronuclear collisions in isotope mixtures of laser-cooled metastable 3P2 neon. Experiments are performed with spin-polarized atoms in a magnetic trap for all two-isotope combinations of the stable neon isotopes 20Ne, 21Ne, and 22Ne. We determine the rate coefficients for heteronuclear ionizing collisions to beta_{21,20}=(3.9+/-2.7) x 10^{-11} cm^3/s, beta_{22,20}=(2.6+/-0.7) x 10^{-11} cm^3/s, and beta_{21,22}=(3.9+/-1.9) x 10^{-11} cm^3/s. We also study heteronuclear elastic collision processes and give upper bounds for heteronuclear thermal relaxation cross sections. This work significantly extends the limited available experimental data on heteronuclear ionizing collisions for laser-cooled atoms involving one or more rare gas atoms in a metastable state.

id: 1208.5747
title: Symmetries and collective excitations in large superconducting circuits
authors: David G. Ferguson, A. A. Houck, Jens Koch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 011003 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5747
abstract: The intriguing appeal of circuits lies in their modularity and ease of fabrication. Based on a toolbox of simple building blocks, circuits present a powerful framework for achieving new functionality by combining circuit elements into larger networks. It is an open question to what degree modularity also holds for quantum circuits -- circuits made of superconducting material, in which electric voltages and currents are governed by the laws of quantum physics. If realizable, quantum coherence in larger circuit networks has great potential for advances in quantum information processing including topological protection from decoherence. Here, we present theory suitable for quantitative modeling of such large circuits and discuss its application to the fluxonium device. Our approach makes use of approximate symmetries exhibited by the circuit, and enables us to obtain new predictions for the energy spectrum of the fluxonium device which can be tested with current experimental technology.

id: 1208.5795
title: Teaching and understanding of quantum interpretations in modern physics courses
authors: Charles Baily, Noah D. Finkelstein
comments: 18 pages, references, plus 2 pages supplemental materials. 8 figures. PACS: 01.40.Fk, 03.65.-w
journal: PhysRev: ST Phys Ed. Rsrch 6, 010101 (2010)
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5795
abstract: Just as expert physicists vary in their personal stances on interpretation in quantum mechanics, instructors vary on whether and how to teach interpretations of quantum phenomena in introductory modern physics courses. In this paper, we document variations in instructional approaches with respect to interpretation in two similar modern physics courses recently taught at the University of Colorado, and examine associated impacts on student perspectives regarding quantum physics. We find students are more likely to prefer realist interpretations of quantum-mechanical systems when instructors are less explicit in addressing student ontologies. We also observe contextual variations in student beliefs about quantum systems, indicating that instructors who choose to address questions of ontology in quantum mechanics should do so explicitly across a range of topics.

id: 1208.5807
title: Quantum Phases of Dipolar Bosons in Bilayer Geometry
authors: Arghavan Safavi-Naini, Sebnem G. Soyler, Guido Pupillo, H. R. Sadeghpour, Barbara Capogrosso-Sansone
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 013036, 2013
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5807
abstract: We investigate the quantum phases of hard-core dipolar bosons confined to a square lattice in a bilayer geometry. Using exact theoretical techniques, we discuss the many-body effects resulting from pairing of particles across layers at finite density, including a novel pair supersolid phase, superfluid and solid phases. These results are of direct relevance to experiments with polar molecules and atoms with large magnetic dipole moments trapped in optical lattices.

id: 1208.5845
title: Free fermions on a line: asymptotics of the entanglement entropy and entanglement spectrum from full counting statistics
authors: Roman S¨¹sstrunk, Dmitri A. Ivanov
comments: 6 pages, comparison with numerics added, published version
journal: EPL 100, 60009 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5845
abstract: We consider the entanglement entropy for a line segment in the system of noninteracting one-dimensional fermions at zero temperature. In the limit of a large segment length L, the leading asymptotic behavior of this entropy is known to be logarithmic in L. We study finite-size corrections to this asymptotic behavior. Based on an earlier conjecture of the asymptotic expansion for full counting statistics in the same system, we derive a full asymptotic expansion for the von Neumann entropy and obtain first several corrections for the Renyi entropies. Our corrections for the Renyi entropies reproduce earlier results. We also discuss the entanglement spectrum in this problem in terms of single-particle occupation numbers.

id: 1208.5849
title: High efficiency UV emitters - theoretical investigation of GaN/AlN heterostructures
authors: Pawel Strak, Pawel Kempisty, Stanislaw Krukowski
comments: research paper
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5849
abstract: Density functional theory simulations were used to obtain physical properties of GaN/AlN system. Combination of these two compounds into multiquantum well (MQW) structure will induce strong electrostatic effect leading to emergence of high magnitude dipole layers at the AlN/GaN interfaces, which were first postulated by {Tersoff Phys. Rev. B 30(8) pp.4874 (1984)} and already identified in GaN/InN by {Romanowski et al. J. Phys. Chem C 114. 14410 (2010)}. When combining GaN and AlN in to a heterostructure a spatial projection of wavefunctions indicate that valence band offset between states becomes of order of 0.85 V. Systematic analysis of influence of number of Ga atomic layers on the properties of wells have shown that for thickness up to 4 Ga layers, GaN behave as carriers locating potential minimum rather, while for larger thickness it is a standard quantum well. In all cases wells has strongly localized quantum states close to valance band maxima (VBM) and conduction band minimum (CBM). The calculated oscillator strength values rapidly decreases for the well thickness in excess of 8 Ga layers (~21 {\AA}) which indicates that wells for UV emitters should be much thinner than these based on InGaN/GaN systems. The Quantum Confined Stark Effect (QCSE) related changes of the transition energy in function of the geometric arrangement were also obtained.

id: 1208.5851
title: How to modify the van der Waals and Casimir forces without change of dielectric permittivity
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures, to appear in J. Phys.: Cond. Matter
journal: J. Phys.: Condensed Matter, v.24, 424202 (2012)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5851
abstract: We propose a new experiment on measuring the Casimir force and its gradient between an Au-coated sphere and two different plates made of doped semiconductors. The concentrations of charge carriers in the plates are chosen slightly below and above the critical density at which the Mott-Anderson insulator-metal transition occurs. We calculate changes in the Casimir force and the Casimir pressure due to the insulator-metal transition using the standard Lifshitz theory and the phenomenological approach neglecting the contribution of free charge carriers in the dielectric permittivity of insulator materials (this approach was recently supported by the measurement data of several experiments). It is demonstrated that for the special selection of semiconductor materials (S- or Se-doped Si, B-doped diamond) calculation results using both theoretical approaches differ significantly and the predicted effects are easily detectable using the existing laboratory setups. In the case that the prediction of the phenomenological approach is confirmed, this would open opportunities to modify the van der Waals and Casimir forces with almost no change of room-temperature dielectric permittivity.

id: 1208.5865
title: Exploring the physical limits of saturation contrast in Magnetic Resonance Imagign
authors: M. Lapert, Y. Zhang, M. Janich, S. J. Glaser, D. Sugny
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures. This paper is in open access, Nature-Scientific Reports
journal: Sci. Rep. 2, 589 (2012)
subjects: Medical Physics (physics.med-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5865
abstract: Magnetic Resonance Imaging has become nowadays an indispensable tool with applications ranging from medicine to material science. However, so far the physical limits of the maximum achievable experimental contrast were unknown. We introduce an approach based on principles of optimal control theory to explore these physical limits, providing a benchmark for numerically optimized robust pulse sequences which can take into account experimental imperfections. This approach is demonstrated experimentally using a model system of two spatially separated liquids corresponding to blood in its oxygenated and deoxygenated forms.

id: 1208.5951
title: Single Photon Adiabatic Wavelength Conversion
authors: Stefan Preble, Liang Cao, Ali Elshaari, Abdelsalam Aboketaf, Donald Adams
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5951
abstract: Adiabatic wavelength conversion is experimentally demonstrated at a single photon power-level using an integrated Silicon ring resonator. This approach allows conversion of a photon to arbitrary wavelengths with no energy or phase matching constraints. The conversion is inherently low-noise and efficient with greater than 10% conversion efficiencies for wavelength changes up to 0.5nm, more than twenty times the resonators line-width. The observed wavelength change and efficiency agrees well with theory and bright coherent light demonstrations. These results will enable integrated quantum optical wavelength conversion for application ranging from wavelength-multiplexed quantum networks to frequency bin entanglement.

id: 1208.5969
title: The Symplectic Egg
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5969
abstract: We invite the reader (presumably an upper level undergraduate student) to a journey leading from the continent of Classical Mechanics to the new territories of Quantum Mechanics. We'll be riding the symplectic camel and have William of Occam as travel companion, so no excess baggage is allowed. The first part of our trip takes us from the symplectic egg to Gromov's non-squeezing theorem and its dynamical interpretation. The second part leads us to a symplectic formulation of the quantum uncertainty principle, which opens the way to new discoveries.

id: 1208.5976
title: Modified Bethe-Peierls boundary condition for ultracold atoms with Spin-Orbit coupling
authors: Peng Zhang, Long Zhang, Youjin Deng
comments: 8 pages, significant improvement is made in the current version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053608 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5976
abstract: We show that the Bethe-Peierls (BP) boundary condition should be modified for ultracold atoms with spin-orbit (SO) coupling. Moreover, we derive a general form of the modified BP boundary condition, which is applicable to a system with arbitrary kind of SO coupling. In the modified BP condition, an anisotropic term appears and the inter-atomic scattering length is normally SO-coupling dependent. For the special system in the current experiments, however, it can be proved that the scattering length is SO-coupling independent, and takes the same value as in the case without SO coupling. Our result is helpful for the study of both few-body and many-body physics in SO-coupled ultracold gases.

id: 1208.5989
title: Criticality in transport through the quantum Ising chain
authors: Malte Vogl, Gernot Schaller, Tobias Brandes
comments: to appear in PRL
journal: Physical Review Letters 109, 240402 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5989
abstract: We consider thermal transport between two reservoirs coupled by a quantum Ising chain as a model for non-equilibrium physics induced in quantum-critical many-body systems. By deriving rate equations based on exact expressions for the quasiparticle pairs generated during the transport, we observe signatures of the underlying quantum phase transition in the steady-state energy current already at finite reservoir temperatures.

id: 1208.6089
title: Weak convergence of complex-valued measure for bi-product path space induced by quantum walk
authors: Norio Konno, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 11 pages
journal: Yokohama Mathematical Journal 59 (2013) pp.1--13
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6089
abstract: In this paper, a complex-valued measure of bi-product path space induced by quantum walk is presented. In particular, we consider three types of conditional return paths in a power set of the bi-product path space (1) $\Lambda \times \Lambda $, (2) $\Lambda \times \Lambda'$ and (3) $\Lambda'\times \Lambda'$, where $\Lambda$ is the set of all $2n$-length ($n\in \mathbb{N}$) return paths and $\Lambda'(\subseteq \Lambda)$ is the set of all $2n$-length return paths going through $nx$ ($x\in [-1,1]$) at time $n$. We obtain asymptotic behaviors of the complex-valued measures for the situations (1)-(3) which imply two kinds of weak convergence theorems (Theorems 1 and 2). One of them suggests a weak limit of weak values.

id: 1208.6146
title: Finite quantum mechanical model for the stock market
authors: Liviu-Adrian Cotfas
comments: An alternative version for the finite Fourier transform is now used
journal: 
subjects: General Finance (q-fin.GN); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6146
abstract: The price of a given stock is exactly known only at the time of sale when the stock is between the traders. If we know the price (owner) then we have no information on the owner (price). A more general description including cases when we have partial information on both price and ownership is obtained by using the quantum mechanics methods. The relation price-ownership is similar to the relation position-momentum. Our approach is based on the mathematical formalism used in the case of quantum systems with finite-dimensional Hilbert space. The linear operator corresponding to the ownership is obtained from the linear operator corresponding to the price by using the finite Fourier transform. In our idealized model, the Schrodinger type equation describing the time evolution of the stock price is solved numerically.

id: 1208.6161
title: An ultra-low dissipation micro-oscillator for quantum opto-mechanics
authors: E. Serra, A. Borrielli, F. S. Cataliotti, F. Marin, F. Marino, A. Pontin, G. A. Prodi, M. Bonaldi
comments: 21 pages including Supplementary Information
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 051801(R) (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6161
abstract: Generating non-classical states of light by opto-mechanical coupling depends critically on the mechanical and optical properties of micro-oscillators and on the minimization of thermal noise. We present an oscillating micro-mirror with a mechanical quality factor Q = 2.6x10^6 at cryogenic temperature and a Finesse of 65000, obtained thanks to an innovative approach to the design and the control of mechanical dissipation. Already at 4 K with an input laser power of 2 mW, the radiation-pressure quantum fluctuations become the main noise source, overcoming thermal noise. This feature makes our devices particularly suitable for the production of pondero-motive squeezing.

id: 1208.6176
title: A tunable macroscopic quantum system based on two fractional vortices
authors: D. M. Heim, K. Vogel, W. P. Schleich, D. Koelle, R. Kleiner, E. Goldobin
comments: We updated our manuscript due to a change of the focus from qubit to macroscopic quantum effects
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 053020
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6176
abstract: We propose a tunable macroscopic quantum system based on two fractional vortices. Our analysis shows that two coupled fractional vortices pinned at two artificially created \kappa\ discontinuities of the Josephson phase in a long Josephson junction can reach the quantum regime where coherent quantum oscillations arise. For this purpose we map the dynamics of this system to that of a single particle in a double-well potential. By tuning the \kappa\ discontinuities with injector currents we are able to control the parameters of the effective double-well potential as well as to prepare a desired state of the fractional vortex molecule. The values of the parameters derived from this model suggest that an experimental realisation of this tunable macroscopic quantum system is possible with today's technology.

id: 1208.6187
title: Enhancement of coherent energy transfer by disorder and temperature in light harvesting processes
authors: Shi-Jie Xiong, Ye Xiong, Yang Zhao
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics 137, 094107 (2012)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6187
abstract: We investigate the influence of static disorder and thermal excitations on excitonic energy transport in the light-harvesting apparatus of photosynthetic systems by solving the Schr\"{o}dinger equation and taking into account the coherent hoppings of excitons, the rates of exciton creation and annihilation in antennas and reaction centers, and the coupling to thermally excited phonons. The antennas and reaction centers are modeled, respectively, as the sources and drains which provide the channels for creation and annihilation of excitons. Phonon modes below a maximum frequency are coupled to the excitons that are continuously created in the antennas and depleted in the reaction centers, and the phonon population in these modes obeys the Bose-Einstein distribution at a given temperature. It is found that the energy transport is not only robust against the static disorder and the thermal noise, but it can also be enhanced by increasing the randomness and temperature in most parameter regimes. Relevance of our work to the highly efficient energy transport in photosynthetic systems is discussed.

id: 1208.6194
title: Approximate mean-field equations of motion for quasi-2D Bose-Einstein condensate systems
authors: Mark Edwards, Michael Krygier, Hadayat Seddiqi, Brandon Benton, Charles W. Clark
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6194
abstract: We present a method for approximating the solution of the three-dimensional, time-dependent Gross-Pitaevskii equation (GPE) for Bose-Einstein condensate systems where the confinement in one dimension is much tighter than in the other two. This method employs a hybrid Lagrangian variational technique whose trial wave function is the product of a completely unspecified function of the coordinates in the plane of weak confinement and a gaussian in the strongly confined direction having a time-dependent width and quadratic phase. The hybrid Lagrangian variational method produces equations of motion that consist of (1) a two-dimensional, effective GPE whose nonlinear coefficient contains the width of the gaussian and (2) an equation of motion for the width that depends on the integral of the fourth power of the solution of the 2D effective GPE. We apply this method to the dynamics of Bose-Einstein condensates confined in ring-shaped potentials and compare the approximate solution to the numerical solution of the full 3D GPE.

id: 1208.6198
title: Implementation of Secure Quantum Protocol using Multiple Photons for Communication
authors: Sayonnha Mandal, Gregory Macdonald, Mayssaa El Rifai, Nikhil Punekar, Farnaz Zamani, Yuhua Chen, Subhash Kak, Pramode K. Verma, Robert C Huck, James Sluss
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6198
abstract: The paper presents the implementation of a quantum cryptography protocol for secure communication between servers in the cloud. As computing power increases, classical cryptography and key management schemes based on computational complexity become increasingly susceptible to brute force and cryptanalytic attacks. Current implementations of quantum cryptography are based on the BB84 protocol, which is susceptible to siphoning attacks on the multiple photons emitted by practical laser sources. The three-stage protocol, whose implementation is described in this paper, is a departure from conventional practice and it obviates some of the known vulnerabilities of the current implementations of quantum cryptography. This paper presents an implementation of the three-stage quantum communication protocol in free-space. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first implementation of a quantum protocol where multiple photons can be used for secure communication.

id: 1208.6293
title: Nanoplasmonic Lattices for Ultracold atoms
authors: M. Gullans, T. Tiecke, D. E. Chang, J. Feist, J. D. Thompson, J. I. Cirac, P. Zoller, M. D. Lukin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, V2: minor changes, V3: minor changes, added supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 235309 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6293
abstract: We propose to use sub-wavelength confinement of light associated with the near field of plasmonic systems to create nanoscale optical lattices for ultracold atoms. Our approach combines the unique coherence properties of isolated atoms with the sub-wavelength manipulation and strong light-matter interaction associated with nano-plasmonic systems. It allows one to considerably increase the energy scales in the realization of Hubbard models and to engineer effective long-range interactions in coherent and dissipative many-body dynamics. Realistic imperfections and potential applications are discussed.

id: 1208.6300
title: Loop Structure Stability of a Double-Well-Lattice BEC
authors: Hoi-Yin Hui, Ryan Barnett, J. V. Porto, S. Das Sarma
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063636 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6300
abstract: In this work, we consider excited many-body mean-field states of bosons in a double-well optical lattice by investigating stationary Bloch solutions to the non-linear equations of motion. We show that, for any positive interaction strength, a loop structure emerges at the edge of the band structure whose existence is entirely due to interactions. This can be contrasted to the case of a conventional optical (Bravais) lattice where a loop appears only above a critical repulsive interaction strength. Motivated by the possibility of realizing such non-linear Bloch states experimentally, we analyze the collective excitations about these non-linear stationary states and thereby establish conditions for the system's energetic and dynamical stability. We find that there are regimes that are dynamically stable and thus apt to be realized experimentally.

id: 1208.6315
title: Noncommutativity in (2+1)-dimensions and the Lorentz group
authors: H. Falomir, F. Vega, J. Gamboa, F. M¨¦ndez, M. Loewe
comments: PACS: 03.65.-w; 11.30.Cp; 02.40.Gh, 19 pages, no figures. Version to appear in Physical Review D
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6315
abstract: In this article we considered models of particles living in a three-dimensional space-time with a nonstandard noncommutativity induced by shifting canonical coordinates and momenta with generators of a unitary irreducible representation of the Lorentz group. The Hilbert space gets the structure of a direct product with the representation space, where we are able to construct operators which realize the algebra of Lorentz transformations. We study the modified Landau problem for both Schr\"odinger and Dirac particles, whose Hamiltonians are obtained through a kind of non-Abelian Bopp's shift of the dynamical variables from the ones of the usual problem in the normal space. The spectrum of these models are considered in perturbation theory, both for small and large noncommutativity parameters. We find no constraint between the parameters referring to no-commutativity in coordinates and momenta but they rather play similar roles. Since the representation space of the unitary irreducible representations SL(2,R) can be realized in terms of spaces of square-integrable functions, we conclude that these models are equivalent to quantum mechanical models of particles living in a space with an additional compact dimension.

id: 1208.6340
title: Coherence assisted resonance with sub-lifetime-limited linewidth
authors: Feng Lei, Pengxiong Li, Liang Jiang, Jianming Wen, Yanhong Xiao
comments: 5 pages 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 233006 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6340
abstract: We demonstrate a novel approach to obtain resonance linewidth below that limited by coherence lifetime. Cross correlation between induced intensity modulation of two lasers coupling the target resonance exhibits a narrow spectrum. 1/30 of the lifetime-limited width was achieved in a proof-of-principle experiment where two ground states are the target resonance levels. Attainable linewidth is only limited by laser shot noise in principle. Experimental results agree with an intuitive analytical model and numerical calculations qualitatively. This technique can be easily implemented and should be applicable to many atomic, molecular and solid state spin systems for spectroscopy, metrology and resonance based sensing and imaging.

id: 1208.6383
title: Entanglement Degradation in the presence of $(4+n)$-dimensional Schwarzschild Black Hole
authors: DaeKil Park
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures V2: version to appear in International J. Quant. Inf
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6383
abstract: In this short paper we compute the various bipartite quantum correlations in the presence of the $(4+n)$-dimensional Schwarzschild black hole. In particular, we focus on the $n$-dependence of various bosonic bipartite entanglements. For the case between Alice and Rob, where the former is free falling observer and the latter is at the near-horizon region, the quantum correlation is degraded compared to the case in the absence of the black hole. The degradation rate increases with decreasing $n$. We also compute the physically inaccessible correlations. It is found that there is no creation of quantum correlation between Alice and AntiRob. For the case between Rob and AntiRob the quantum entanglement is created although they are separated in the causally disconnected regions. It is found that contrary to the physically accessible correlation the entanglement between Rob and AntiRob decreases with decreasing $n$.

id: 1208.6416
title: Relational Databases and Bell's Theorem
authors: Samson Abramsky
comments: 19 pages. To appear in Festschrift for Peter Buneman
journal: In Search of Elegance in the Theory and Practice of Computation: Essays dedicated to Peter Buneman, ed. V. Tannen, L. Wong, L. Libkin, W. Fan, W.C. Tan and M. Fourman, Springer, pages 13-35, 2013
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Databases (cs.DB); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6416
abstract: Our aim in this paper is to point out a surprising formal connection, between two topics which seem on face value to have nothing to do with each other: relational database theory, and the study of non-locality and contextuality in the foundations of quantum mechanics. We shall show that there is a remarkably direct correspondence between central results such as Bell's theorem in the foundations of quantum mechanics, and questions which arise naturally and have been well-studied in relational database theory.

id: 1208.6441
title: Band engineering in dilute nitride and bismide semiconductor lasers
authors: Christopher A. Broderick, Muhammad Usman, Stephen J. Sweeney, Eoin P. O'Reilly
comments: 27 pages, 11 figures
journal: Invited Review Paper, Semicond. Sci. Technol. 27, 094011, 2012
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6441
abstract: Highly mismatched semiconductor alloys such as GaNAs and GaBiAs have several novel electronic properties, including a rapid reduction in energy gap with increasing x and also, for GaBiAs, a strong increase in spin orbit- splitting energy with increasing Bi composition. We review here the electronic structure of such alloys and their consequences for ideal lasers. We then describe the substantial progress made in the demonstration of actual GaInNAs telecomm lasers. These have characteristics comparable to conventional InP-based devices. This includes a strong Auger contribution to the threshold current. We show, however, that the large spin-orbit-splitting energy in GaBiAs and GaBiNAs could lead to the suppression of the dominant Auger recombination loss mechanism, finally opening the route to e?fficient temperature-stable telecomm and longer wavelength lasers with significantly reduced power consumption.

id: 1208.6482
title: On the influence of a Coulomb-like potential induced by the Lorentz symmetry breaking effects on the Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Knut Bakke, Humberto Belich
comments: 14 pages, no figure, this work has been accepted for publication in The European Physical Journal Plus
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus 127, 102 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6482
abstract: In this work, we obtain bound states for a nonrelativistic spin-half neutral particle under the influence of a Coulomb-like potential induced by the Lorentz symmetry breaking effects. We present a new possible scenario of studying the Lorentz symmetry breaking effects on a nonrelativistic quantum system defined by a fixed space-like vector field parallel to the radial direction interacting with a uniform magnetic field along the z-axis. Furthermore, we also discuss the influence of a Coulomb-like potential induced by Lorentz symmetry violation effects on the two-dimensional harmonic oscillator.

id: 1208.6499
title: Electron Transfer Reactions: Generalized Spin-Boson Approach
authors: Marco Merkli, Gennady Berman, Richard Sayre
comments: Exactly same file as version 1. Corrected metadata only
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6499
abstract: We introduce a mathematically rigorous analysis of a generalized spin-boson system for the treatment of a donor-acceptor (reactant-product) quantum system coupled to a thermal quantum noise. The donor/acceptor probability dynamics describes transport reactions in chemical processes in presence of a noisy environment -- such as the electron transfer in a photosynthetic reaction center. Besides being rigorous, our analysis has the advantages over previous ones that (1) we include a general, non energy-conserving system-environment interaction, and that (2) we allow for the donor or acceptor to consist of multiple energy levels lying closely together. We establish explicit expressions for the rates and the efficiency (final donor-acceptor population difference) of the reaction. In particular, we show that the rate increases for a multi-level acceptor, but the efficiency does not.

id: 1208.6509
title: Entangled Bessel beams
authors: Melanie McLaren, Megan Agnew, Jonathan Leach, Filippus S. Roux, Miles J. Padgett, Andrew Forbes
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6509
abstract: Orbital angular momentum (OAM) entanglement is investigated in the Bessel-Gauss (BG) basis. Having a readily adjustable radial scale, BG modes provide a more favourable basis for OAM entanglement over Laguerre-Gaussian (LG) modes. The OAM bandwidth in terms of BG modes can be increased by selection of particular radial modes and leads to a flattening of the spectrum. The flattening of the spectrum allows for higher entanglement. We demonstrate increased entanglement in terms of BG modes by performing a Bell-type experiment and violating the appropriate Clauser Horne Shimony Holt (CHSH) inequality. In addition, we reconstruct the quantum state of BG modes entangled in high-dimensions.

id: 1208.6554
title: Semiconductor quantum dots with light-hole exciton ground state: fabrication and fine structure
authors: Y. H. Huo, B. J. Witek, S. Kumar, R. Singh, E. Zallo, R. Grifone, D. Kriegner, R. Trotta, N. Akopian, J. Stangl, V. Zwiller, G. Bester, A. Rastelli, O. G. Schmidt
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6554
abstract: Quantum dots (QDs) can act as convenient hosts of two-level quantum szstems, such as single electron spins, hole spins or excitons (bound electron-hole pairs). Due to quantum confinement, the ground state of a single hole confined in a QD usually has dominant heavy-hole (HH) character. For this reason light-hole (LH) states have been largely neglected, despite the fact that may enable the realilzation of coherent photon-to-spin converters or allow for faster spin manipulation compared to HH states. In this work, we use tensile strains larger than 0.3% to switch the ground state of excitons confined in high quality GaAs/AlGaAs QDs from the conventional HH- to LH-type. The LH-exciton fine structure is characterized by two in-plane-polarized lines and, ~400 micro-eV above them, by an additional line with pronounced out-of-plane oscillator strength, consistent with theoretical predictions based on atomistic empirical pseudopotential calculations and a simple mesoscopic model.

id: 1208.6589
title: Efficient Computation of the Permanent of Block Factorizable Matrices
authors: Kristan Temme, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.6589
abstract: We present an efficient algorithm for computing the permanent for matrices of size N that can written as a product of L block diagonal matrices with blocks of size at most 2. For fixed L, the time and space resources scale linearly in N, with a prefactor that scales exponentially in L. This class of matrices contains banded matrices with banded inverse. We show that such a factorization into a product of block diagonal matrices gives rise to a circuit acting on a Hilbert space with a tensor product structure and that the permanent is equal to the transition amplitude of this circuit and a product basis state. In this correspondence, a block diagonal matrix gives rise to one layer of the circuit, where each block to a gate acting either on a single tensor component or on two adjacent tensor components. This observation allows us to adopt matrix product states, a computational method from condensed matter physics and quantum information theory used to simulate quantum systems, to evaluate the transition amplitude.

id: 1208.1028
title: Progress in the mathematical theory of quantum disordered systems
authors: Walter F. Wreszinski
comments: 25 pages, 1 figure, based on lectures at Bressanone and G\"ottingen
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1028
abstract: We review recent progress in the mathematical theory of quantum disordered systems: the Anderson transition (joint work with Domingos Marchetti), the (quantum and classical) Edwards-Anderson (EA) spin glass model and return to equilibrium for a class of spin glass models, which includes the EA model initially in a very large transverse magnetic field.

id: 1208.1151
title: Classical-Quantum Arbitrarily Varying Wiretap Channel
authors: Vladimir Blinovsky, Minglai Cai
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1151
abstract: We derive a lower bound on the capacity of classical-quantum arbitrarily varying wiretap channel and determine the capacity of the classicalquantum arbitrarily varying wiretap channel with channel state information at the transmitter.

