id: 1209.0010
title: Trapping of a particle in a short-range harmonic potential well
authors: L. B. Castro, A. S. de Castro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0010
abstract: Eigenstates of a particle in a localized and unconfined harmonic potential well are investigated. Effects due to the variation of the potential parameters as well as certain results from asymptotic expansions are discussed.

id: 1209.0023
title: The paradigm of kinematics and dynamics must yield to causal structure
authors: Robert W. Spekkens
comments: Submission to the 2012 FQXi essay contest "Which of Our Basic Physical Assumptions Are Wrong?"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0023
abstract: The distinction between a theory's kinematics and its dynamics, that is, between the space of physical states it posits and its law of evolution, is central to the conceptual framework of many physicists. A change to the kinematics of a theory, however, can be compensated by a change to its dynamics without empirical consequence, which strongly suggests that these features of the theory, considered separately, cannot have physical significance. It must therefore be concluded (with apologies to Minkowski) that henceforth kinematics by itself, and dynamics by itself, are doomed to fade away into mere shadows, and only a kind of union of the two will preserve an independent reality. The notion of causal structure seems to provide a good characterization of this union.

id: 1209.0041
title: Quantum Entanglement and the Issue of Selective Influences in Psychology: An Overview
authors: Ehtibar N. Dzhafarov, Janne V. Kujala
comments: to appear in Lecture Notes in Computer Science
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science 7620, 184-195 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0041
abstract: Similar formalisms have been independently developed in psychology, to deal with the issue of selective influences (deciding which of several experimental manipulations selectively influences each of several, generally non-independent, response variables), and in quantum mechanics (QM), to deal with the EPR entanglement phenomena (deciding whether an EPR experiment allows for a "classical" account). The parallels between these problems are established by observing that any two noncommuting measurements in QM are mutually exclusive and can therefore be treated as analogs of different values of one and the same input. Both problems reduce to that of the existence of a jointly distributed system of random variables, one variable for every value of every input (in psychology) or every measurement on every particle involved (in an EPR experiment). We overview three classes of necessary conditions (some of them also sufficient under additional constraints) for the existence of such joint distributions.

id: 1209.0058
title: Super-additivity of quantum-correlating power
authors: Xueyuan Hu, Heng Fan, D. L. Zhou, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012315 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0058
abstract: We prove that, when two local quantum channels are used paralleled, the quantum-correlating power (QCP) of the composed channel is no less than the sum of QCP of the two channels. For local channels with zero QCP, the super-activation of QCP is a fairly common effect, and proved to exist except for the trivial case where both of the channels are completely decohering channels or unitary operators. For general quantum channels, we show that the (not-so-common) additivity of QCP can be observed for the situation where a measuring-and-preparing channel is used together with a completely decohering channel.

id: 1209.0062
title: Construct order parameter from the spectra of mutual information
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Wing Chi Yu, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0062
abstract: In this paper, we try to establish a connection between a quantum information concept, i.e. the mutual information, and the conventional order parameter in condensed matter physics. We show that a non-vanishing mutual information at a long distance means the existence of long-range order. By analyzing the entanglement spectra of the reduced density matrix that are used to calculate the mutual information, we show how to find the local order operator used to identify various phases with long-rang order.

id: 1209.0063
title: Classification of arbitrary-dimensional multipartite pure states under stochastic local operations and classical communication using the rank of coefficient matrix
authors: Shuhao Wang, Yao Lu, Ming Gao, Jianlian Cui, Junlin Li
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, to be appeared in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 105303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0063
abstract: We study multipartite entanglement under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) and propose the entanglement classification under SLOCC for arbitrary-dimensional multipartite ($n$-qudit) pure states via the rank of coefficient matrix, together with the permutation of qudits. The ranks of the coefficient matrices have been proved to be entanglement monotones. The entanglement classification of the $2 \otimes 2 \otimes 2 \otimes 4$ system is discussed in terms of the generalized method, and 22 different SLOCC families are found.

id: 1209.0071
title: Semiclassical approach to the quantum Loschmidt echo in deep quantum regions: from validity to breakdown
authors: Pinquan Qin, Qian Wang, Wen-ge Wang
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E, 86, 066203 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0071
abstract: Semiclassical results are usually expected to be valid in the semiclassical regime. An interesting question is, in models in which appropriate effective Planck constants can be introduced, to what extent will a semiclassical prediction stay valid when the effective Planck constant is increased? In this paper, we numerically study this problem, focusing on semiclassical predictions for the decay of the quantum Loschmidt echo in deep quantum regions. Our numerical simulations, carried out in the chaotic regime in the sawtooth model and in the kicked rotator model and also in the critical region of a 1D Ising chain in transverse field, show that the semiclassical predictions may work even in deep quantum regions, in particularly, for perturbation strength in the so-called Fermi-Golden-rule regime.

id: 1209.0079
title: Possibility of a minimal purity-measurement scheme critically depends on the parity of dimension of the quantum system
authors: Toru Tanaka, Gen Kimura, Hiromichi Nakazato
comments: 9pages, 1figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0079
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the possibility of measuring the purity of a quantum state (and the overlap between two quantum states) within a minimal model where the measurement device is minimally composed. The minimality is based on the assumptions that (i) we use a yes-no measurement on a single system to determine the single value of the purity in order not to extract other redundant information, and (ii) we use neither ancilla nor random measurement. We show that the measurability of the purity within this model critically depends on the parity of dimension of the quantum system: the purity measurement is possible for odd dimensional quantum systems, while it is impossible for even dimensional cases.

id: 1209.0082
title: Recursive quantum convolutional encoders are catastrophic: A simple proof
authors: Monireh Houshmand, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure. v2: accepted into IEEE Transactions on Information Theory with minor modifications. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1105.0649
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory vol. 59, no. 10, pages 6724-6731 (October 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0082
abstract: Poulin, Tillich, and Ollivier discovered an important separation between the classical and quantum theories of convolutional coding, by proving that a quantum convolutional encoder cannot be both non-catastrophic and recursive. Non-catastrophicity is desirable so that an iterative decoding algorithm converges when decoding a quantum turbo code whose constituents are quantum convolutional codes, and recursiveness is as well so that a quantum turbo code has a minimum distance growing nearly linearly with the length of the code, respectively. Their proof of the aforementioned theorem was admittedly "rather involved," and as such, it has been desirable since their result to find a simpler proof. In this paper, we furnish a proof that is arguably simpler. Our approach is group-theoretic---we show that the subgroup of memory states that are part of a zero physical-weight cycle of a quantum convolutional encoder is equivalent to the centralizer of its "finite-memory" subgroup (the subgroup of memory states which eventually reach the identity memory state by identity operator inputs for the information qubits and identity or Pauli-Z operator inputs for the ancilla qubits). After proving that this symmetry holds for any quantum convolutional encoder, it easily follows that an encoder is non-recursive if it is non-catastrophic. Our proof also illuminates why this no-go theorem does not apply to entanglement-assisted quantum convolutional encoders---the introduction of shared entanglement as a resource allows the above symmetry to be broken.

id: 1209.0112
title: Twin inequality for fully contextual quantum correlations
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87 (2013) 010104(R)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0112
abstract: Quantum mechanics exhibits a very peculiar form of contextuality. Identifying and connecting the simplest scenarios in which more general theories can or cannot be more contextual than quantum mechanics is a fundamental step in the quest for the principle that singles out quantum contextuality. The former scenario corresponds to the Klyachko-Can-Binicioglu-Shumovsky (KCBS) inequality. Here we show that there is a simple tight inequality, twin to the KCBS, for which quantum contextuality cannot be outperformed. In a sense, this twin inequality is the simplest tool for recognizing fully contextual quantum correlations.

id: 1209.0119
title: Multiaccess quantum communication and product higher rank numerical range
authors: Maciej Demianowicz, Pawe? Horodecki, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 26 pages, 6 figures
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 13, 0541-0566 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0119
abstract: In the present paper we initiate the study of the product higher rank numerical range. The latter, being a variant of the higher rank numerical range [M.--D. Choi {\it et al.}, Rep. Math. Phys. {\bf 58}, 77 (2006); Lin. Alg. Appl. {\bf 418}, 828 (2006)], is a natural tool for studying construction of quantum error correction codes for multiple access channels. We review properties of this set and relate it to other numerical ranges, which were recently introduced in the literature. Further, the concept is applied to the construction of codes for bi--unitary two--access channels with a hermitian noise model. Analytical techniques for both outerbounding the product higher rank numerical range and determining its exact shape are developed for this case. Finally, the reverse problem of constructing a noise model for a given product range is considered.

id: 1209.0120
title: Decoherence free subspaces for two--access quantum channels
authors: Maciej Demianowicz
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0120
abstract: In this paper we consider construction of decoherence free subspaces for two--access random unitary channels. First, we concentrate on hermitian unitary noise model $U$ for a bi--unitary channel and show that in this case a code exists if the space of Schmidt matrices of an eigensubspace of $U$ exhibits certain properties of decomposability. Then, we show that our technique is also applicable in a generic case and consider its application two tri- (quatro-, ...) unitary channels.

id: 1209.0195
title: Bound states for the quantum dipole moment in two dimensions
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0195
abstract: We calculate accurate eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the Schr\"odinger equation for a two-dimensional quantum dipole. This model proved useful for the study of elastic effects of a single edge dislocation. We show that the Rayleigh-Ritz variational method with a basis set of Slater-type functions is considerably more efficient than the same approach with the basis set of point-spectrum eigenfunctions of the two-dimensional hydrogen atom used in earlier calculations.

id: 1209.0252
title: Quantization from an exponential distribution of infinitesimal action
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: 15 pages, accepted for publication in Physica A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0252
abstract: A statistical model of quantization based on an exponential distribution of infinitesimal action is proposed. Trajectory which does not extremize the action along an infinitesimal short segment of path is allowed to occur with a very small probability following an exponential law. Planck constant is argued to give the average deviation from the infinitesimal stationary action.

id: 1209.0261
title: Decoherence during time evolution by Schroedinger equation
authors: Shunichi Muto
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0261
abstract: A thought experiment is discussed to clarify the concept of decoherence. Superposition of states consisting of ground state of a single hydrogen atom and its excited state after a huge amount of time is discussed to show that the decoherence of the state, more precisely the loss of coherence, is literally the loss of ability of interference. The loss of superposition of states is just apparent or even superfacial. Applications of this example in its relation to many-world interpretation of observation of a quantum state, decoherence in usual cases, and weak collapse of wavepackets are discussed.

id: 1209.0268
title: Photo induced ionization dynamics of the nitrogen vacancy defect in diamond investigated by single shot charge state detection
authors: N. Aslam, G. Waldherr, P. Neumann, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0268
abstract: The nitrogen-vacancy centre (NV) has drawn much attention for over a decade, yet detailed knowledge of the photophysics needs to be established. Under typical conditions, the NV can have two stable charge states, negative (NV-) or neutral (NV0), with photo induced interconversion of these two states. Here, we present detailed studies of the ionization dynamics of single NV centres in bulk diamond at room temperature during illumination in dependence of the excitation wavelength and power. We apply a recent method which allows us to directly measure the charge state of a single NV centre, and observe its temporal evolution. Results of this work are the steady state NV- population, which was found to be always < 75% for 450 to 610 nm excitation wavelength, the relative absorption cross-section of NV- for 540 to 610 nm, and the energy of the NV- ground state of 2.6 eV below the conduction band. These results will help to further understand the photo-physics of the NV centre.

id: 1209.0279
title: Weak measurement and Zeno time in a dissipative environment
authors: Samyadeb Bhattacharya, Sisir Roy
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1209.0299
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0279
abstract: A generalized expression for weak value of dwell time in dissipative systems has been constructed using the approach of Caldirola and Montaldi. An approximate measure of Zeno time has been found taking an asymmetric double well potential. Atomic tunneling between two surfaces is taken as a practical example. The formalism can be used for any solvable potential with exact or approximate energy eigenvalues.

id: 1209.0299
title: Weak value of Dwell time for Quantum Dissipative spin-1/2 System
authors: Samyadeb Bhattacharya, Sisir Roy
comments: This work is original. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0807.1357, arXiv:quant-ph/9611018, arXiv:quant-ph/9501015 by other authors
journal: Physical Review A 85, 062119 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0299
abstract: The dwell time is calculated within the framework of time dependent weak measurement considering dissipative interaction between a spin half system and the environment. Caldirola and Montaldi's method of retarded Schroedinger equation is used to study the dissipative system. The result shows that inclusion of dissipative interaction prevents zero time tunneling.

id: 1209.0321
title: The dynamics of a qubit coupled strongly with a quantum oscillator
authors: Guihua Tian
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0321
abstract: The dynamics of a qubit coupled with a quantum oscillator is re-studied in the region of strong coupling. The non-degenerate perturbation is added to the usual degenerate one and new results are given.

id: 1209.0352
title: Analysis of a photon number resolving detector based on an ion Coulomb crystal inside an optical cavity
authors: Christoph Clausen, Nicolas Sangouard, Michael Drewsen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. V2: improved version corresponding to the published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 025021 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0352
abstract: The ability to detect single photons with high efficiency is a crucial requirement for various quantum information applications. By combining the storage process of a quantum memory for photons with fluorescence-based quantum state measurement, it is in principle possible to achieve high efficiency photon counting in large ensembles of atoms. The large number of atoms can, however, pose significant problems in terms of noise stemming from imperfect initial state preparation and off-resonant fluorescence. We propose a concrete implementation of a photon number resolving detector based on an ion Coulomb crystal inside a moderately high-finesse optical cavity. The cavity enhancement leads to an effective optical depth of 15 for a finesse of 3000 with only about 1500 ions interacting with the light field. We show that these values allow for essentially noiseless detection with an efficiency larger than 90%. Moderate experimental parameters allow for repetition rates of about 5 kHz, limited by the time needed for fluorescence collection. Potential applications are discussed.

id: 1209.0362
title: Quantum speed limit for physical processes
authors: M. M. Taddei, B. M. Escher, L. Davidovich, R. L. de Matos Filho
comments: results unchanged; new in this version: greater focus on geometrical interpretation of results, added references, improvements in style, comments on exclusion window left mainly for the supplemental material; main article: 7 pages (including references), 2 figures; supplemental material: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 050402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0362
abstract: The evaluation of the minimal evolution time between two distinguishable states of a system is important for assessing the maximal speed of quantum computers and communication channels. Lower bounds for this minimal time have been proposed for unitary dynamics. Here we show that it is possible to extend this concept to nonunitary processes, using an attainable lower bound that is connected to the quantum Fisher information for time estimation. This result is used to delimit the minimal evolution time for typical noisy channels.

id: 1209.0365
title: Attacks on quantum key distribution protocols that employ non-ITS authentication
authors: Christoph Pacher, Aysajan Abidin, Thomas Lor¨¹nser, Momtchil Peev, Rupert Ursin, Anton Zeilinger, Jan-?ke Larsson
comments: 34 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0365
abstract: We demonstrate how adversaries with unbounded computing resources can break Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) protocols which employ a particular message authentication code suggested previously. This authentication code, featuring low key consumption, is not Information-Theoretically Secure (ITS) since for each message the eavesdropper has intercepted she is able to send a different message from a set of messages that she can calculate by finding collisions of a cryptographic hash function. However, when this authentication code was introduced it was shown to prevent straightforward Man-In-The-Middle (MITM) attacks against QKD protocols. In this paper, we prove that the set of messages that collide with any given message under this authentication code contains with high probability a message that has small Hamming distance to any other given message. Based on this fact we present extended MITM attacks against different versions of BB84 QKD protocols using the addressed authentication code; for three protocols we describe every single action taken by the adversary. For all protocols the adversary can obtain complete knowledge of the key, and for most protocols her success probability in doing so approaches unity. Since the attacks work against all authentication methods which allow to calculate colliding messages, the underlying building blocks of the presented attacks expose the potential pitfalls arising as a consequence of non-ITS authentication in QKD-postprocessing. We propose countermeasures, increasing the eavesdroppers demand for computational power, and also prove necessary and sufficient conditions for upgrading the discussed authentication code to the ITS level.

id: 1209.0404
title: Time-optimal Unitary Operations in Ising Chains II: Unequal Couplings and Fixed Fidelity
authors: A. Carlini, T. Koike
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013), 045307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0404
abstract: We analytically determine the minimal time and the optimal control laws required for the realization, up to an assigned fidelity and with a fixed energy available, of entangling quantum gates ($\mathrm{CNOT}$) between indirectly coupled qubits of a trilinear Ising chain. The control is coherent and open loop, and it is represented by a local and continuous magnetic field acting on the intermediate qubit. The time cost of this local quantum operation is not restricted to be zero. When the matching with the target gate is perfect (fidelity equal to one) we provide exact solutions for the case of equal Ising coupling. For the more general case when some error is tolerated (fidelity smaller than one) we give perturbative solutions for unequal couplings. Comparison with previous numerical solutions for the minimal time to generate the same gates with the same Ising Hamiltonian but with instantaneous local controls shows that the latter are not time-optimal.

id: 1209.0405
title: Time-Optimal Transfer of Coherence
authors: A. Carlini, T. Koike
comments: Published version (with typos in eqs. (25)-(27) corrected)
journal: Physical Review A, 86, 054302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0405
abstract: We provide exact analytical solutions for the problem of time-optimal transfer of coherence from one spin polarization to a three-fold coherence in a trilinear Ising chain with a fixed energy available and subject to local controls with a non negligible time cost. The time of transfer is optimal and consistent with a previous numerical result obtained assuming instantaneous local controls.

id: 1209.0406
title: Brachistochrone of Entanglement for Spin Chains
authors: A. Carlini, T. Koike
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0406
abstract: We analytically investigate the time-optimal unitary evolution of entanglement between indirectly coupled qubits in a trilinear Ising chain with unequal interaction couplings. The intermediate qubit is controlled via a local magnetic field. We find the time-optimal unitary evolution law, and we quantify residual entanglement via the two-tangle between the indirectly coupled qubits, for all possible sets of initial pure quantum states of a tripartite system. The integrals of the motion of the brachistochrone are determined by fixing the minimal time at which the residual entanglement is maximized. Entanglement plays a role for $W$ and $GHZ$ initial quantum states, and for the bi-separable initial state in which the indirectly coupled qubits have a nonzero value of the 2-tangle.

id: 1209.0435
title: Unconditionally secure device-independent quantum key distribution with only two devices
authors: Jonathan Barrett, Roger Colbeck, Adrian Kent
comments: 11 pages, minor changes
journal: Physical Review A 86, 062326 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0435
abstract: Device-independent quantum key distribution is the task of using uncharacterized quantum devices to establish a shared key between two users. If a protocol is secure regardless of the device behaviour, it can be used to generate a shared key even if the supplier of the devices is malicious. To date, all device-independent quantum key distribution protocols that are known to be secure require separate isolated devices for each entangled pair, which is a significant practical limitation. We introduce a protocol that requires Alice and Bob to have only one device each. Although inefficient, our protocol is unconditionally secure against an adversarial supplier limited only by locally enforced signalling constraints.

id: 1209.0441
title: Observation of Entanglement Between Itinerant Microwave Photons and a Superconducting Qubit
authors: C. Eichler, C. Lang, J. M. Fink, J. Govenius, S. Filipp, A. Wallraff
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 240501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0441
abstract: A localized qubit entangled with a propagating quantum field is well suited to study non-local aspects of quantum mechanics and may also provide a channel to communicate between spatially separated nodes in a quantum network. Here, we report the on demand generation and characterization of Bell-type entangled states between a superconducting qubit and propagating microwave fields composed of zero, one and two-photon Fock states. Using low noise linear amplification and efficient data acquisition we extract all relevant correlations between the qubit and the photon states and demonstrate entanglement with high fidelity.

id: 1209.0448
title: A classical leash for a quantum system: Command of quantum systems via rigidity of CHSH games
authors: Ben W. Reichardt, Falk Unger, Umesh Vazirani
comments: 100 pages, 7 figures. Full version with detailed proofs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0448
abstract: Can a classical system command a general adversarial quantum system to realize arbitrary quantum dynamics? If so, then we could realize the dream of device-independent quantum cryptography: using untrusted quantum devices to establish a shared random key, with security based on the correctness of quantum mechanics. It would also allow for testing whether a claimed quantum computer is truly quantum. Here we report a technique by which a classical system can certify the joint, entangled state of a bipartite quantum system, as well as command the application of specific operators on each subsystem. This is accomplished by showing a strong converse to Tsirelson's optimality result for the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) game: the only way to win many games is if the bipartite state is close to the tensor product of EPR states, and the measurements are the optimal CHSH measurements on successive qubits. This leads directly to a scheme for device-independent quantum key distribution. Control over the state and operators can also be leveraged to create more elaborate protocols for realizing general quantum circuits, and to establish that QMIP = MIP*.

id: 1209.0449
title: Classical command of quantum systems via rigidity of CHSH games
authors: Ben W. Reichardt, Falk Unger, Umesh Vazirani
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures. Sketches of proofs with all major ideas
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0449
abstract: Can a classical system command a general adversarial quantum system to realize arbitrary quantum dynamics? If so, then we could realize the dream of device-independent quantum cryptography: using untrusted quantum devices to establish a shared random key, with security based on the correctness of quantum mechanics. It would also allow for testing whether a claimed quantum computer is truly quantum. Here we report a technique by which a classical system can certify the joint, entangled state of a bipartite quantum system, as well as command the application of specific operators on each subsystem. This is accomplished by showing a strong converse to Tsirelson's optimality result for the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) game: the only way to win many games is if the bipartite state is close to the tensor product of EPR states, and the measurements are the optimal CHSH measurements on successive qubits. This leads directly to a scheme for device-independent quantum key distribution. Control over the state and operators can also be leveraged to create more elaborate protocols for reliably realizing general quantum circuits.

id: 1209.0508
title: The effect of point split regularization on the sign of the Casimir energy
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0508
abstract: In a recent paper [1] the Casimir energy was calculated for a massive dirac field in (1+1) dimensional space-time in the presence of an inverse square well potential and shown to be positive. It will be shown that this result violates a key assumption of quantum field theory which is that the vacuum state is the state of minimum energy. The reason for this discrepancy is examined and is shown to be related to the way the charge density operator is defined. If the charge density operator is defined using point splitting then an extra term will be added to the charge which will result in the Casimir energy being negative.

id: 1209.0509
title: Parametric down conversion of a bosonic thermofield vacuum
authors: Thiago Prudencio
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1104.3926
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A, 27 (2012) 1250124
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0509
abstract: We consider a process of parametric down conversion where the input state is a bosonic thermofield vacuum. This state leads to a parametric down conversion, generating an output of two excited photons. Following a thermofield dynamics scheme, the input state, initially in a bosonic thermofield vacuum, and the output states, initially in vacuum states, evolve under a Liouville-von Neumann equation.

id: 1209.0510
title: A bridge to lower overhead quantum computation
authors: Austin G. Fowler, Simon J. Devitt
comments: 17 pages, 71 figures, formal proof of methodology added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0510
abstract: Two primary challenges stand in the way of practical large-scale quantum computation, namely achieving sufficiently low error rate quantum gates and implementing interesting quantum algorithms with a physically reasonable number of qubits. In this work we address the second challenge, presenting a new technique, bridge compression, which enables remarkably low volume structures to be found that implement complex computations in the surface code. The surface code has a number of highly desirable properties, including the ability to achieve arbitrarily reliable computation given sufficient qubits and quantum gate error rates below approximately 1%, and the use of only a 2-D array of qubits with nearest neighbor interactions. As such, our compression technique is of great practical relevance.

id: 1209.0536
title: Thermalization via Heat Radiation of an Individual Object Thinner than the Thermal Wavelength
authors: C. Wuttke, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 024301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0536
abstract: Modeling and investigating the thermalization of microscopic objects with arbitrary shape from first principles is of fundamental interest and may lead to technical applications. Here, we study, over a large temperature range, the thermalization dynamics due to far-field heat radiation of an individual, deterministically produced silica fiber with a predetermined shape and a diameter smaller than the thermal wavelength. The temperature change of the subwavelength-diameter fiber is determined through a measurement of its optical path length in conjunction with an ab initio thermodynamic model of the fiber structure. Our results show excellent agreement with a theoretical model that considers heat radiation as a volumetric effect and takes the emitter shape and size relative to the emission wavelength into account.

id: 1209.0552
title: Adiabatic Transparency of Multilevel Atomic Media for Short High-intensity Pulses
authors: G. Grigoryan, V. Chaltykyan, E. Gazazyan, A. Hovhannisyan, O.Tikhova
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0552
abstract: We consider a medium of multilevel atomic systems interacting with radiation pulses. A relatively simple technique of analytic calculations is proposed, which allows revealing all necessary conditions (with sufficient conditions to be checked separately) imposed on the interaction parameters, for which the mean dipole moment of a multilevel atomic medium vanishes, i.e., the medium becomes transparent via adiabatic interaction. The proposed technique is based on the method of quasienergies and illustrated for three- and five-level atomic systems. The necessary conditions for the propagation length where the interaction adiabaticity is preserved in the medium are obtained.

id: 1209.0557
title: Quantum Error Correction with Uniformly Mixed State Ancillae
authors: Yasushi Kondo, Chiara Bagnasco, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0557
abstract: It is often assumed that the ancilla qubits required for encoding a qubit in quantum error correction (QEC) have to be in pure states, $|00...0>$ for example. In this letter, we seek an encoding scheme, in which the ancillae may be in a uniformly mixed state. We demonstrate our scheme experimentally by making use of a three-qubit NMR quantum computer. Moreover, the encoded state has an interesting nature in terms of Quantum Discord, or purely quantum correlations between the data-qubit and ancillae.

id: 1209.0631
title: Tensor Network Methods for Invariant Theory
authors: Jacob Biamonte, Ville Bergholm, Marco Lanzagorta
comments: 21 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 475301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0631
abstract: Invariant theory is concerned with functions that do not change under the action of a given group. Here we communicate an approach based on tensor networks to represent polynomial local unitary invariants of quantum states. This graphical approach provides an alternative to the polynomial equations that describe invariants, which often contain a large number of terms with coefficients raised to high powers. This approach also enables one to use known methods from tensor network theory (such as the matrix product state factorization) when studying polynomial invariants. As our main example, we consider invariants of matrix product states. We generate a family of tensor contractions resulting in a complete set of local unitary invariants that can be used to express the R\'enyi entropies. We find that the graphical approach to representing invariants can provide structural insight into the invariants being contracted, as well as an alternative, and sometimes much simpler, means to study polynomial invariants of quantum states. In addition, many tensor network methods, such as matrix product states, contain excellent tools that can be applied in the study of invariants.

id: 1209.0637
title: Effect of qubit losses on Grover's quantum search algorithm
authors: D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042321 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0637
abstract: We investigate the performance of Grover's quantum search algorithm on a register which is subject to loss of the particles that carry the qubit information. Under the assumption that the basic steps of the algorithm are applied correctly on the correspondingly shrinking register, we show that the algorithm converges to mixed states with 50% overlap with the target state in the bit positions still present. As an alternative to error correction, we present a procedure that combines the outcome of different trials of the algorithm to determine the solution to the full search problem. The procedure may be relevant for experiments where the algorithm is adapted as the loss of particles is registered, and for experiments with Rydberg blockade interactions among neutral atoms, where monitoring of the atom losses is not even necessary.

id: 1209.0649
title: Test of a Jastrow-type wavefunction for a trapped few-body system in one dimension
authors: J. C. Cremon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0649
abstract: For a system with interacting quantum mechanical particles in a one-dimensional harmonic oscillator, a trial wavefunction with simple structure based on the solution of the corresponding two-particle system is suggested and tested numerically. With the inclusion of a scaling parameter for the distance between particles, at least for the very small systems tested here the ansatz gives a very good estimate of the ground state energy, with the error being of the order of ~1% of the gap to the first excited state.

id: 1209.0711
title: Is the Spreading of Quantum Mechanical Wave Packets Indeed Inevitable?
authors: Istv¨¢n Mayer
comments: 6 pages. Some references have been added and a mistake is corrected which, however, did not influence the final conclusion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0711
abstract: It is demonstrated that -- contrary to the common belief -- it is possible to construct solutions of the non-relativistic Schr\"odinger equation of a free particle, that do not exhibit dispersion. However, it seems that no normalizable wave packets can be built up by their use, so the spreading of the wave packets is indeed inevitable.

id: 1209.0742
title: Quantum-classical transition of correlations of two coupled cavities
authors: Tony E. Lee, M. C. Cross
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013834 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0742
abstract: We study the difference between quantum and classical behavior in a pair of nonidentical cavities with second-harmonic generation. In the classical limit, each cavity has a limit-cycle solution, in which the photon number oscillates periodically in time. Coupling between the cavities leads to synchronization of the oscillations and classical correlations between the cavities. In the quantum limit, there are quantum correlations due to entanglement. The quantum correlations persist even when the cavities are far off resonance with each other, in stark contrast with the classical case. We also find that the quantum and classical limits are connected by an intermediate regime of almost no correlations. Our results can be extended to a wide variety of quantum models.

id: 1209.0752
title: Tunneling dynamics in exactly-solvable models with triple-well potentials
authors: V.P. Berezovoj, M.I. Konchatnij, A.J. Nurmagambetov
comments: Latex, 28 pages, 7 Figs, 2 Tables; minor presentation changes, journal version
journal: J.Phys. A46 (2013) 065302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0752
abstract: Inspired by new trends in atomtronics, cold atoms devices and Bose-Einstein condensate dynamics, we apply a general technique of N=4 extended Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics to isospectral Hamiltonians with triple-well potentials, i.e. symmetric and asymmetric. Expressions of quantum-mechanical propagators, which take into account all states of the spectrum, are obtained, within the N = 4 SQM approach, in the closed form. For the initial Hamiltonian of a harmonic oscillator, we obtain the explicit expressions of potentials, wavefunctions and propagators. The obtained results are applied to tunneling dynamics of localized states in triple-well potentials and for studying its features. In particular, we observe a Josephson-type tunneling transition of a wave packet, the effect of its partial trapping and a non-monotonic dependence of tunneling dynamics on the shape of a three-well potential. We investigate, among others, the possibility of controlling tunneling transport by changing parameters of the central well, and we briefly discuss potential applications of this aspect to atomtronic devices.

id: 1209.0794
title: Optimal Bacon-Shor codes
authors: John Napp, John Preskill
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 13, 490-510 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0794
abstract: We study the performance of Bacon-Shor codes, quantum subsystem codes which are well suited for applications to fault-tolerant quantum memory because the error syndrome can be extracted by performing two-qubit measurements. Assuming independent noise, we find the optimal block size in terms of the bit-flip error probability p_X and the phase error probability p_Z, and determine how the probability of a logical error depends on p_X and p_Z. We show that a single Bacon-Shor code block, used by itself without concatenation, can provide very effective protection against logical errors if the noise is highly biased (p_Z / p_X >> 1) and the physical error rate p_Z is a few percent or below. We also derive an upper bound on the logical error rate for the case where the syndrome data is noisy.

id: 1209.0819
title: Non-hermitian model for resonant cavities coupled by a chiral mirror
authors: Roberto Baginski B. Santos
comments: 6 pages; published in Europhysics Letters; fixed typo at Eq (38)
journal: EPL 100, 24005 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0819
abstract: Inspired by a recently observed asymmetry in the transmission of circularly polarized light through a metamaterial, we present a non-hermitian PT-symmetric quantum model to describe the interaction of the light fields in two resonant cavities coupled via a 2D-chiral mirror. We compute the time evolution of the light fields in this model, find two sets of operators compatible with the hamiltonian in a delocalized representation, discover the energies of the system and show that the transmission probability predicted by the model is indeed asymmetric.

id: 1209.0839
title: Analytical two-center integrals over Slater geminal functions
authors: Micha? Lesiuk, Robert Moszynski
comments: 28 pages, 0 figures, 7 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052513 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0839
abstract: We present analytical formulas for the calculation of the two-center two-electron integrals in the basis of Slater geminals and products of Slater orbitals. Our derivation starts with establishing a inhomogeneous fourth-order ordinary differential equation that is obeyed by the master integral, the simplest integral with inverse powers of all interparticle distances. To solve this equation it was necessary to introduce a new family of special functions which are defined through their series expansions around regular singular points of the differential equation. To increase the power of the interparticle distances under the sign of the integral we developed a family of open-ended recursion relations. A handful of special cases of the integrals is also analysed with some remarks on simplifications that occur. Additionally, we present some numerical examples of the master integral that validate the usefulness and correctness of the key equations derived in this paper. In particular, we compare our results with the calculations based on the series expansion of the exp(-\gamma r12) term in the master integral.

id: 1209.0858
title: Deterministic generation of an on-demand Fock state
authors: Keyu Xia, Gavin K. Brennen, Demosthenes Ellinas, Jason Twamley
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 24, pp. 27198-27211 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0858
abstract: We theoretically study the deterministic generation of photon Fock states on-demand using a protocol based on a Jaynes Cummings quantum random walk which includes damping. We then show how each of the steps of this protocol can be implemented in a low temperature solid-state quantum system with a Nitrogen-Vacancy centre in a nano-diamond coupled to a nearby high-Q optical cavity. By controlling the coupling duration between the NV and the cavity via the application of a time dependent Stark shift, and by increasing the decay rate of the NV via stimulated emission depletion (STED) a Fock state with high photon number can be generated on-demand. Our setup can be integrated on a chip and can be accurately controlled.

id: 1209.0870
title: Comment on 'Operator formalism for the Wigner phase distribution'
authors: Joan A. Vaccaro
comments: 4 pages + 2 figures. A comment on the paper arXiv:1009.4030v1 by T. Subeesh and V. Sudhir. Updated to the accepted journal version
journal: J. Mod. Optics 60, 769-771 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0870
abstract: The operator associated with the radially integrated Wigner function is found to lack justification as a phase operator.

id: 1209.0906
title: Delocalized single-photon Dicke states and the Leggett- Garg inequality in solid state systems
authors: Guang-Yin Chen, Neill Lambert, Che-Ming Li, Yueh-Nan Chen, Franco Nori
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures, journal paper
journal: Scientific Reports 2:869 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0906
abstract: We show how to realize a single-photon Dicke state in a large one-dimensional array of two- level systems, and discuss how to test its quantum properties. Realization of single-photon Dicke states relies on the cooperative nature of the interaction between a field reservoir and an array of two-level-emitters. The resulting dynamics of the delocalized state can display Rabi-like oscillations when the number of two-level emitters exceeds several hundred. In this case the large array of emitters is essentially behaving like a mirror-less cavity. We outline how this might be realized using a multiple-quantum-well structure and discuss how the quantum nature of these oscillations could be tested with the Leggett-Garg inequality and its extensions.

id: 1209.0908
title: Qubit carriers with internal degrees of freedom in a non-factorable state
authors: Martina Mikova, Helena Fikerova, Ivo Straka, Michal Micuda, Miroslav Jezek, Miloslav Dusek, Radim Filip
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0908
abstract: We have studied how the quality of transfer of a qubit state depends on distinguishability of internal states of the particles carrying qubits. The transfer is implemented without any direct interaction, just by a partial exchange of photons, measurement on one of them, and conditional feed-forward correction. It appears that the quality of the transfer is only influenced by the level of distinguishability of the states of unaccessible internal degrees of freedom not used for information encoding. We have found a directly measurable parameter quantifying this level of distinguishability and proved it usefulness experimentally.

id: 1209.0921
title: The WAY theorem and the quantum resource theory of asymmetry
authors: Mehdi Ahmadi, David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 013057
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0921
abstract: The WAY theorem establishes an important constraint that conservation laws impose on quantum mechanical measurements. We formulate the WAY theorem in the broader context of resource theories, where one is constrained to a subset of quantum mechanical operations described by a symmetry group. Establishing connections with the theory of quantum state discrimination we obtain optimal unitaries describing the measurement of arbitrary observables, explain how prior information can permit perfect measurements that circumvent the WAY constraint, and provide a framework that establishes a natural ordering on measurement apparatuses through a decomposition into asymmetry and charge subsystems.

id: 1209.0923
title: Generation of Dicke States with Phonon-Mediated Multi-level Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage
authors: Atsushi Noguchi, Kenji Toyoda, Shinji Urabe
comments: 5pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0923
abstract: We generate half-excited symmetric Dicke states of two and four ions. We use multi-level stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) whose intermediate states are phonon Fock states. This process corresponds to the spin squeezing operation and half-excited Dicke states are generated during multi-level STIRAP. This method does not require local access for each ion or the preparation of phonon Fock states. Furthermore, it is robust since it is an adiabatic process. We evaluate the Dicke state using a witness operator and determine the upper and lower bounds of the fidelity without using full quantum tomography.

id: 1209.0993
title: Hartman effect and dissipative quantum systems
authors: Samyadeb Bhattacharya, Sisir Roy
comments: article consists of 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 052101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0993
abstract: The dwell time for dissipative quantum system is shown to increase with barrier width. It clearly precludes Hartman effect for dissipative systems. Here calculation has been done for inverted parabolic potential barrier.

id: 1209.1014
title: Quantum-correlation breaking channels, quantum conditional probability and Perron-Frobenius theory
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377, 606 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1014
abstract: Using the quantum analog of conditional probability and classical Bayes theorem we discuss some aspects of quantum-classical and classical-classical channels in connection to the recent paper J. Korbicz, P. Horodecki, and R. Horodecki, "Quantum-correlation breaking channels, broadcasting scenarios, and finite Markov chains". Applying the quantum analog of Perron-Frobenius theorem we generalize the result of Korbicz et. al. on full and spectrum broadcasting from quantum-classical channels to arbitrary channels.

id: 1209.1029
title: Quantum mechanics: A new chapter?
authors: Werner A. Hofer
comments: 8 pages, article to appear in the Proceedings of the 6th Conference: Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations, June 11-14 2012 in Vaexjoe, Sweden
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1508, 216 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1029
abstract: We review the conceptual problems in quantum mechanics on a fundamental level. It is shown that the proposed model of extended electrons and a clear understanding of rotations in three dimensional space solve a large part of these problems, in particular the problems related to the ontological status and physical meaning of wavefunctions. It also solves the problem of non-locality. The experimental results obtained in Yves Couder's group and theoretical results by Gerdard Gr\"ossing indicate that the wave-like distribution of trajectories of electrons in interference experiments are most likely due to the quantized interactions leading to a discrete set of transferred momenta. A separate experimental confirmation of this interpretation for double-slit interferometry of photons has been given by the group of Steinberg.

id: 1209.1055
title: Hardness of approximation for quantum problems
authors: Sevag Gharibian, Julia Kempe
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure, extended abstract appeared in Proceedings of the 39th International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming (ICALP), pages 387-398, Springer, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1055
abstract: The polynomial hierarchy plays a central role in classical complexity theory. Here, we define a quantum generalization of the polynomial hierarchy, and initiate its study. We show that not only are there natural complete problems for the second level of this quantum hierarchy, but that these problems are in fact hard to approximate. Using these techniques, we also obtain hardness of approximation for the class QCMA. Our approach is based on the use of dispersers, and is inspired by the classical results of Umans regarding hardness of approximation for the second level of the classical polynomial hierarchy [Umans, FOCS 1999]. The problems for which we prove hardness of approximation for include, among others, a quantum version of the Succinct Set Cover problem, and a variant of the local Hamiltonian problem with hybrid classical-quantum ground states.

id: 1209.1061
title: Superpositions in Atomic Quantum Rings
authors: R. Kanamoto, P. ?hberg, E. M. Wright
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013618 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1061
abstract: Ultracold atoms are trapped circumferentially on a ring that is pierced at its center by a flux tube arising from a light-induced gauge potential due to applied Laguerre-Gaussian fields. We show that by using optical coherent state superpositions to produce light-induced gauge potentials, we can create a situation in which the trapped atoms are simultaneously exposed to two distinct flux tubes, thereby creating superpositions in atomic quantum rings. We consider the examples of both a ring geometry and harmonic trapping, and in both cases the ground state of the quantum system is shown to be a superposition of counter-rotating states of the atom trapped on the two distinct flux tubes.

id: 1209.1078
title: Electromagnetic potentials and Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Alexander Ershkovich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1078
abstract: Hamilton-Jacobi equation which governs classical mechanics and electrodynamics explicitly depends on the electromagnetic potentials (A,{\phi}), similar to Schroedinger equation. We derived the Aharonov-Bohm effect from Hamilton-Jacobi equation thereby having proved that this effect is of classical origin. These facts enable us to arrive at the following conclusions: a) the very idea of special role of potentials (A,{\phi}) in quantum mechanics (different from their role in classical physics) lost the ground, and becomes dubious, as this idea is based on the Aharonov-Bohm effect, b) failure to find any signs of a special role of these potentials in the appropriate experiments (Feinberg, 1963) is thereby explained, and c) discovery of classical analogues of the Aharonov-Bohm effect (Berry et al., 1980) is also explained by a classical nature of this effect. Elucidation of the "unlocal" interaction problem was made.

id: 1209.1081
title: Nonlocal Quantum Correlations: Beyond Entanglement
authors: Mark Brezinski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1081
abstract: The utilization and control of nonlocal quantum interactions is an area of active investigation. This is not limited to subatomic structures but extends to the macroscopic level. Nonlocal interactions can be from either entanglement or path indistinguishability (the path integral for larger systems), with the latter being further subdivided as discussed. These two distinct phenomenon have recently been treated often in the literature as essentially identical, which is problematic when utilizing them for practical applications. The confusion may lie in misunderstanding the physics of the type II spontaneous parameteric downconversion source (SPDS), which is used extensively with entanglement studies. This paper examines the distinction, and why it is important for practical applications, between quantum correlations from path indistinguishability versus entanglement. The path indistinguishability approaches discussed, under ambient conditions, are performed with a thermal source or, a coherent source (single photon wavepacket) when local entanglements in both arm have specific characteristics. The latter we will show has the property that it can surprisingly lead to coherence expansion rather than decoherence under the proper conditions. Nonlocal quantum correlations are a complex topic that extends beyond quantum entanglement.

id: 1209.1182
title: Exact quantization of a PT-symmetric (reversible) Li¨¦nard-type nonlinear oscillator
authors: V. Chithiika Ruby, M. Senthilvelan, M. Lakshmanan
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, Fast Track Communication
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 382002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1182
abstract: We carry out an exact quantization of a PT symmetric (reversible) Li\'{e}nard type one dimensional nonlinear oscillator both semiclassically and quantum mechanically. The associated time independent classical Hamiltonian is of non-standard type and is invariant under a combined coordinate reflection and time reversal transformation. We use von Roos symmetric ordering procedure to write down the appropriate quantum Hamiltonian. While the quantum problem cannot be tackled in coordinate space, we show how the problem can be successfully solved in momentum space by solving the underlying Schr\"{o}dinger equation therein. We obtain explicitly the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions (in momentum space) and deduce the remarkable result that the spectrum agrees exactly with that of the linear harmonic oscillator, which is also confirmed by a semiclassical modified Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization rule, while the eigenfunctions are completely different.

id: 1209.1190
title: Minimal universal quantum heat machine
authors: David Gelbwaser-Klimovsky, Robert Alicki, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 012140 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1190
abstract: In traditional thermodynamics the Carnot cycle yields the ideal performance bound of heat engines and refrigerators. We propose and analyze a minimal model of a heat machine that can play a similar role in quantum regimes. The minimal model consists of a single two-level system with periodically modulated energy splitting that is permanently, weakly, coupled to two spectrally-separated heat baths at different temperatures. The equation of motion allows to compute the stationary power and heat currents in the machine consistently with the second-law of thermodynamics. This dual-purpose machine can act as either an engine or a refrigerator (heat pump) depending on the modulation rate. In both modes of operation the maximal Carnot efficiency is reached at zero power. We study the conditions for finite-time optimal performance for several variants of the model. Possible realizations of the model are discussed.

id: 1209.1214
title: Trapped ion emulation of electric dipole moment of neutral relativistic particles
authors: Tihomir G. Tenev, Peter A. Ivanov, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022103 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1214
abstract: The electric dipole moments of various neutral elementary particles, such as neutron, neutrinos, certain hypothetical dark matter particles and others, are predicted to exist by the standard model of high energy physics and various extensions of it. However, the predicted values are beyond the present experimental capabilities. We propose to simulate and emulate the electric dipole moment of neutral relativistic particles and the ensuing effects in the presence of electrostatic field by emulation of an extended Dirac equation in ion traps.

id: 1209.1265
title: Measurement-Based Quantum Computation on Symmetry Breaking Thermal States
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Yoshifumi Nakata, Masayuki Ohzeki, Mio Murao
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110 120502, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1265
abstract: We consider measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC) on thermal states of the interacting cluster Hamiltonian containing interactions between the cluster stabilizers that undergoes thermal phase transitions. We show that the long-range order of the symmetry breaking thermal states below a critical temperature drastically enhance the robustness of MBQC against thermal excitations. Specifically, we show the enhancement in two-dimensional cases and prove that MBQC is topologically protected below the critical temperature in three-dimensional cases. The interacting cluster Hamiltonian allows us to perform MBQC even at a temperature an order of magnitude higher than that of the free cluster Hamiltonian.

id: 1209.1352
title: Optomechanically induced transparency in membrane-in-the-middle setup at room temperature
authors: M. Karuza, C. Biancofiore, M. Bawaj, C. Molinelli, M. Galassi, R. Natali, P. Tombesi, G. Di Giuseppe, D. Vitali
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013804 (2013) [5 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1352
abstract: We demonstrate the analogue of electromagnetically induced transparency in a room temperature cavity optomechanics setup formed by a thin semitransparent membrane within a Fabry-P\'erot cavity. Due to destructive interference, a weak probe field is completely reflected by the cavity when the pump beam is resonant with the motional red sideband of the cavity. Under this condition we infer a significant slowing down of light of hundreds of microseconds, which is easily tuned by shifting the membrane along the cavity axis. We also observe the associated phenomenon of electromagnetically induced amplification which occurs due to constructive interference when the pump is resonant with the blue sideband.

id: 1209.1356
title: Quantum storage based on the control field angular scanning
authors: Xiwen Zhang, Alexey Kalachev, Olga Kocharovskaya
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1356
abstract: Continuous change of the propagation direction of a classical control field in the process of its off-resonant Raman interaction with a weak signal field in a three-level atomic medium is suggested for quantum storage of a single-photon wave packet. It is shown that due to phase matching condition such an angular control allows one to reversibly map the single-photon wave packet to the Raman spatial coherence grating. Thus, quantum storage and retrieval can be realized without using inhomogeneous broadening of the atomic transitions or manipulating the amplitude of the control field. Under some conditions the proposed scheme proves to be mathematically analogous to the quantum storage scheme based on controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening of the atomic states.

id: 1209.1382
title: Strongly Incompatible Quantum Devices
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Takayuki Miyadera, Daniel Reitzner
comments: 27 pages (AMSart), 6 figures
journal: Foundations of Physics (2014) 44: 34--57
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1382
abstract: The fact that there are quantum observables without a simultaneous measurement is one of the fundamental characteristics of quantum mechanics. In this work we expand the concept of joint measurability to all kinds of possible measurement devices, and we call this relation compatibility. Two devices are incompatible if they cannot be implemented as parts of a single measurement setup. We introduce also a more stringent notion of incompatibility, strong incompatibility. Both incompatibility and strong incompatibility are rigorously characterized and their difference is demonstrated by examples.

id: 1209.1398
title: Symmetries of Three Harmonically-Trapped Particles in One Dimension
authors: N. L. Harshman
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures, 6 tables, 37 references, 4 footnotes, 1 article; v2 has revised introduction and results sections as well as typos corrected
journal: Physical Review A 86 (2012), 052122
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1398
abstract: We present a method for solving trapped few-body problems and apply it to three equal-mass particles in a one-dimensional harmonic trap, interacting via a contact potential. By expressing the relative Hamiltonian in Jacobi cylindrical coordinates, i.e. the two-dimensional version of three-body hyperspherical coordinates, we discover an underlying ${\rm C}_{6v}$ symmetry. This symmetry simplifies the calculation of energy eigenstates of the full Hamiltonian in a truncated Hilbert space constructed from the trap Hamiltonian eigenstates. Particle superselection rules are implemented by choosing the relevant representations of ${\rm C}_{6v}$. We find that the one-dimensional system shows nearly the full richness of the three-dimensional system, and can be used to understand separability and reducibility in this system and in standard few-body approximation techniques.

id: 1209.1401
title: Memory Effects in Spontaneous Emission Processes
authors: Arne L. Grimsmo, Asle H. Vaskinn, Per K. Rekdal, Bo-Sture K. Skagerstam
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures and 46 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1401
abstract: We consider a quantum-mechanical analysis of spontaneous emission in terms of an effective two-level system with a vacuum decay rate $\Gamma_0$ and transition angular frequency $\omega_A$. Our analysis is in principle exact, even though presented as a numerical solution of the time-evolution including memory effects. The results so obtained are confronted with previous discussions in the literature. In terms of the {\it dimensionless} lifetime $\tau = t\Gamma_0$ of spontaneous emission, we obtain deviations from exponential decay of the form ${\cal O} (1/\tau)$ for the decay amplitude as well as the previously obtained asymptotic behaviors of the form ${\cal O} (1/\tau^2)$ or ${\cal O} (1/\tau \ln^2\tau)$ for $\tau \gg 1 $. The actual asymptotic behavior depends on the adopted regularization procedure as well as on the physical parameters at hand. We show that for any reasonable range of $\tau$ and for a sufficiently large value of the required angular frequency cut-off $\omega_c$ of the electro-magnetic fluctuations, i.e. $\omega_c \gg \omega_A$, one obtains either a ${\cal O} (1/\tau)$ or a ${\cal O} (1/\tau^2)$ dependence. In the presence of physical boundaries, which can change the decay rate with many orders of magnitude, the conclusions remains the same after a suitable rescaling of parameters.

id: 1209.1437
title: Quantum Damped Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex ; 25 pages ; no figure. A book-chapter, "Quantum Mechanics", Paul Bracken (Ed.), ISBN 980-953-307-945-0, InTech
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1437
abstract: In this chapter we treat the quantum damped harmonic oscillator, and study mathematical structure of the model, and construct general solution with any initial condition, and give a quantum counterpart in the case of taking coherent state as an initial condition. This is a simple and good model of Quantum Mechanics with dissipation which is important to understand real world, and readers will get a powerful weapon for Quantum Physics.

id: 1209.1441
title: Programming a Topological Quantum Computer
authors: Simon J. Devitt, Kae Nemoto
comments: 6 Pages, 9 Figures, Accepted Proc. 21st Asian Test Symposium (ATS'12), Niigata, Japan (2012)
journal: Test Symposium (ATS), 2012 IEEE 21st Asian, pp 55-60
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1441
abstract: Topological quantum computing has recently proven itself to be a powerful computational model when constructing viable architectures for large scale computation. The topological model is constructed from the foundation of a error correction code, required to correct for inevitable hardware faults that will exist for a large scale quantum device. It is also a measurement based model of quantum computation, meaning that the quantum hardware is responsible only for the construction of a large, computationally universal quantum state. This quantum state is then strategically consumed, allowing for the realisation of a fully error corrected quantum algorithm. The number of physical qubits needed by the quantum hardware and the amount of time required to implement an algorithm is dictated by the manner in which this universal quantum state is consumed. In this paper we examine the problem of algorithmic optimisation in the topological lattice and introduce the required elements that will be needed when designing a classical software package to compile and implement a large scale algorithm on a topological quantum computer.

id: 1209.1452
title: Degenerate ground state and quantum tunneling in rotating condensates
authors: Qiang Du, Martine Le Berre, Yves Pomeau
comments: 4p, 4 Figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1452
abstract: Quantum tunneling introduces a fundamental difference between classical and quantum mechanics. Whenever the classical ground state is non-unique (degenerate), quantum mechanics restore uniqueness thanks to tunneling. A condensate in a rotating trap with a vortex can have such a degenerate classical ground state, a degeneracy that is excluded in the absence of rotation at least when the Gross-Pitaevskii equation applies. If the rotating trap has a center of symmetry, like a figure eight (a peanut), the vortex may be on either side with the same energy yielding a degenerate ground state, a degeneracy lifted by quantum tunneling. We explain how to compute the rate of tunneling in the WKB limit by estimating the action of the trajectory in the Euclidean version of the dynamics.

id: 1209.1523
title: Multisite Entanglement acts as a Better Indicator of Quantum Phase Transitions in Spin Models with Three-spin Interactions
authors: Manabendra N. Bera, R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1523
abstract: We employ a genuine multipartite entanglement measure, the generalized geometric measure, for investigating the quantum phase transition in an infinite quantum spin-1/2 chain with two-spin as well as three-spin interactions. We show that in contrast to bipartite entanglement of the ground state, the genuine multiparty one unerringly indicates the quantum phase transition in the system. The system lends itself to a complementary behavior between bipartite and genuine multipartite entanglements. We also investigate the trend of the multipartite entanglement in finite chains, in which we perform a finite-size scaling to confirm the signature of the quantum phase transition already in finite systems. The finite-size investigation renders the phenomenon to be observable in real systems.

id: 1209.1536
title: Negativity and quantum discord in Davies environments
authors: J. Dajka, M. Mierzejewski, J. Luczka, R. Blattmann, P. Hanggi
comments: submitted for publication
journal: J. Phys. A 45, 485306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1536
abstract: We investigate the time evolution of negativity and quantum discord for a pair of non-interacting qubits with one being weakly coupled to a decohering Davies--type Markovian environment. At initial time of preparation, the qubits are prepared in one of the maximally entangled pure Bell states. In the limiting case of pure decoherence (i.e. pure dephasing), both, the quantum discord and negativity decay to zero in the long time limit. In presence of a manifest dissipative dynamics, the entanglement negativity undergoes a sudden death at finite time while the quantum discord relaxes continuously to zero with increasing time. We find that in dephasing environments the decay of the negativity is more propitious with increasing time; in contrast, the evolving decay of the quantum discord proceeds weaker for dissipative environments. Particularly, the slowest decay of the quantum discord emerges when the energy relaxation time matches the dephasing time.

id: 1209.1543
title: Multimode entanglement in coupled cavity arrays
authors: Timothy C. H. Liew, Vincenzo Savona
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 025015 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1543
abstract: We study a driven-dissipative array of coupled nonlinear optical resonators by numerically solving the Von Neumann equation for the density matrix. We demonstrate that quantum correlated states of many photons can be generated also in the limit where the nonlinearity is much smaller than the losses, contrarily to common expectations. Quantum correlations in this case arise from interference between different pathways that the system can follow in the Hilbert space to reach its steady state under the effect of coherent driving fields. We characterize in particular two systems: a linear chain of three coupled cavities and an array of eight coupled cavities. We demonstrate the existence of a parameter range where the system emits photons with continuous-variable bipartite and quadripartite entanglement, in the case of the first and the second system respectively. This entanglement is shown to survive realistic rates of pure dephasing and opens a new perspective for the realization of quantum simulators or entangled photon sources without the challenging requirement of strong optical nonlinearities.

id: 1209.1599
title: Coherent Time Evolution and Boundary Conditions of Two-Photon Quantum Walks
authors: Jasmin D. A. Meinecke, Konstantinos Poulios, Alberto Politi, Jonathan C. F. Matthews, Alberto Peruzzo, Nur Ismail, Kerstin W?rhoff, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Mark G. Thompson
comments: 7 pages,7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012308 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1599
abstract: Multi-photon quantum walks in integrated optics are an attractive controlled quantum system, that can mimic less readily accessible quantum systems and exhibit behavior that cannot in general be accurately replicated by classical light without an exponential overhead in resources. The ability to observe time evolution of such systems is important for characterising multi-particle quantum dynamics---notably this includes the effects of boundary conditions for walks in spaces of finite size. Here we demonstrate the coherent evolution of quantum walks of two indistinguishable photons using planar arrays of 21 evanescently coupled waveguides fabricated in silicon oxynitride technology. We compare three time evolutions, that follow closely a model assuming unitary evolution, corresponding to three different lengths of the array---in each case we observe quantum interference features that violate classical predictions. The longest array includes reflecting boundary conditions.

id: 1209.1613
title: Two-Qubit Separability Probabilities: A Concise Formula
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, some material adopted from arXiv:1203.4498
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1613
abstract: We report a concise answer--in the case of 2 x 2 systems--to the fundamental quantum-information-theoretic question as to "the volume of separable states" posed by Zyczkowski, Horodecki, Sanpera and Lewenstein (Phys. Rev. A, 58, 883 [1998]). We proceed by applying the Mathematica command FindSequenceFunction to a series of conjectured Hilbert-Schmidt generic 2 x 2 (rational-valued) separability probabilities p(a), a = 1, 2,...,32, with a = 1 indexing standard two-qubit systems, and a = 2, two-quater(nionic)bit systems. These 32 inputted values of p(a)--as well as 32 companion non-inputted values for the half-integers, a = 1/2 (two-re[al]bit) systems), 3/2,..., 63/2, are advanced on the basis of high-precision probability-distribution-reconstruction computations, employing 7,501 determinantal moments of partially transposed 4 x 4 density matrices. The function P(a) given by application of the command fully reproduces both of these 32-length sequences, and an equivalent outcome is obtained if the half-integral series is the one inputted. The lengthy expression (containing six hypergeometric functions) obtained for P(a) is, then, impressively condensed (by Qing-Hu Hou and colleagues), using Zeilberger's algorithm. For generic (9-dimensional) two-rebit systems, P(1/2) = 29/64, (15-dimensional) two-qubit systems, P(1) = 8/33, (27-dimensional) two-quaterbit systems, P(2) = 26/323, while for generic classical (3-dimensional) systems, P(0)=1.

id: 1209.1684
title: Quantum Brayton cycle with coupled systems as working substance
authors: X. L. Huang, L. C. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. E
journal: Physical Review E 87, 012144 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1684
abstract: We explore the quantum version of Brayton cycle with a composite system as the working substance. The actual Brayton cycle consists of two adiabatic and two isobaric processes. Two pressures can be defined in our isobaric process, one corresponds to the external magnetic field (characterized by $F_x$) exerted on the system, while the other corresponds to the coupling constant between the subsystems (characterized by $F_y$). As a consequence, we can define two types of quantum Brayton cycle for the composite system. We find that the subsystem experiences a quantum Brayton cycle in one quantum Brayton cycle (characterized by $F_x$), whereas the subsystem's cycle is of quantum Otto in another Brayton cycle (characterized by $F_y$). The efficiency for the composite system equals to that for the subsystem in both cases, but the work done by the total system are usually larger than the sum of work done by the two subsystems. The other interesting finding is that for the cycle characterized by $F_y$, the subsystem can be a refrigerator while the total system is a heat engine. The result in the paper can be generalized to a quantum Brayton cycle with a general coupled system as the working substance.

id: 1209.1693
title: On the stability of quantum holonomic gates
authors: P Solinas, M Sassetti, P Truini, N Zanghi
comments: 7 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 093006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1693
abstract: We provide a unified geometrical description for analyzing the stability of holonomic quantum gates in the presence of imprecise driving controls (parametric noise). We consider the situation in which these fluctuations do not affect the adiabatic evolution but can reduce the logical gate performance. Using the intrinsic geometric properties of the holonomic gates, we show under which conditions on noise's correlation time and strength, the fluctuations in the driving field cancel out. In this way, we provide theoretical support to previous numerical simulations. We also briefly comment on the error due to the mismatch between real and nominal time of the period of the driving fields and show that it can be reduced by suitably increasing the adiabatic time.

id: 1209.1704
title: Maximal Entanglement, Collective Coordinates and Tracking the King
authors: M. Revzen
comments: 8. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1206.3884, arXiv:1206.0356
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1704
abstract: Maximal entangled states (MES) provide a basis to two d-dimensional particles Hilbert space, d=prime $\ne 2$. The MES forming this basis are product states in the collective, center of mass and relative, coordinates. These states are associated (underpinned) with lines of finite geometry whose constituent points are associated with product states carrying Mutual Unbiased Bases (MUB) labels. This representation is shown to be convenient for the study of the Mean King Problem and a variant thereof, termed Tracking the King which proves to be a novel quantum communication channel. The main topics, notions used are reviewed in an attempt to have the paper self contained.

id: 1209.1737
title: Quantum speed limits in open system dynamics
authors: A. del Campo, I. L. Egusquiza, M. B. Plenio, S. F. Huelga
comments: 7pp, 1 figure, appendix added, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 050403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1737
abstract: Bounds to the speed of evolution of a quantum system are of fundamental interest in quantum metrology, quantum chemical dynamics and quantum computation. We derive a time-energy uncertainty relation for open quantum systems undergoing a general, completely positive and trace preserving (CPT) evolution which provides a bound to the quantum speed limit. When the evolution is of the Lindblad form, the bound is analogous to the Mandelstam-Tamm relation which applies in the unitary case, with the role of the Hamiltonian being played by the adjoint of the generator of the dynamical semigroup. The utility of the new bound is exemplified in different scenarios, ranging from the estimation of the passage time to the determination of precision limits for quantum metrology in the presence of dephasing noise.

id: 1209.1749
title: Double-slit implementation of minimal Deutsch algorithm
authors: B. Marques, M. R. Barros, W. M. Pimenta, M. A. D. Carvalho, J. Ferraz, R. C. Drumond, M. Terra Cunha, S. P¨¢dua
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1749
abstract: We report an experimental implementation of the minimal Deutsch algorithm in an optical setting. In this version, a redundancy is removed from the most famous form of the algorithm. The original version involves manipulation of two qubits, while in its minimal version, only one qubit is used. Our qubit is encoded in the transversal spatial modes of a spontaneous parametric down-converted signal photon, with the aid of a double slit, with the idler photon playing a crucial role in creating a heralded single photon source. A spatial light modulator (SLM) is programmed to physically generate one-bit functions necessary to implement the algorithm's minimal version, which shows that the SLM can be used in future implementations of quantum protocols.

id: 1209.1755
title: Small violations of full correlation Bell inequalities for multipartite pure random states
authors: R. C. Drumond, R. I. Oliveira
comments: 16 pages, one column
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012117 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1755
abstract: We estimate the probability of random $N$-qudit pure states violating full-correlation Bell inequalities with two dichotomic observables per site. These inequalities can show violations that grow exponentially with $N$, but we prove this is not the typical case. For many-qubit states the probability to violate any of these inequalities by an amount that grows linearly with $N$ is vanishingly small. If each system's Hilbert space dimension is larger than two, on the other hand, the probability of seeing \emph{any} violation is already small. For the qubits case we discuss furthermore the consequences of this result for the probability of seeing arbitrary violations (\emph i.e., of any order of magnitude) when experimental imperfections are considered.

id: 1209.1771
title: Unitary Transformation in Probabilistic Teleportation
authors: Xiu-Lao Tian, Wei Zhang, Xiao-Qiang Xi
comments: 8 pages, 1 figures, accepted for publication in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1771
abstract: We proposed a general transformation in probabilistic teleportation, which is based on different entanglement matching coefficients $K$ corresponding to different unitary evolution which provides one with more flexible evolution method experimentally. Through analysis based on the Bell basis and generalized Bell basis measurement for two probabilistic teleportation, we suggested a general probability of successful teleportation, which is not only determined by the entanglement degree of transmission channels and measurement methods, but also related to the unitary transformation in the teleportation process.

id: 1209.1795
title: Efficient entanglement concentration for arbitrary less-entangled NOON state assisted with single photon
authors: Lan Zhou, Yu-Bo Sheng
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1795
abstract: We put forward two efficient entanglement concentration protocols (ECPs) for distilling the maximally entangled NOON state from arbitrary less-entangled NOON state with only an auxiliary single photon. With the help of the weak cross-Kerr nonlinearities, both the two ECPs can be used repeatedly to get a high success probability. In the first ECP, the auxiliary single photon should be shared by the two parties say Alice and Bob. In the second ECP, the auxiliary single photon is only possessed by Bob, which can greatly increase the practical success probability by avoiding the transmission loss. Moreover, Bob can operate the whole protocol alone, which makes the protocol more simple. Therefore, our two ECPs, especially the second ECP may be more useful and convenient in the current quantum information processing.

id: 1209.1836
title: Experimental implementation of a Kochen-Specker set of quantum tests
authors: Vincenzo D'Ambrosio, Isabelle Herbauts, Elias Amselem, Eleonora Nagali, Mohamed Bourennane, Fabio Sciarrino, Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX, 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3 (2013) 011012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1836
abstract: The conflict between classical and quantum physics can be identified through a series of yes-no tests on quantum systems, without it being necessary that these systems be in special quantum states. Kochen-Specker (KS) sets of yes-no tests have this property and provide a quantum-versus-classical advantage that is free of the initialization problem that affects some quantum computers. Here, we report the first experimental implementation of a complete KS set that consists of 18 yes-no tests on four-dimensional quantum systems and show how to use the KS set to obtain a state-independent quantum advantage. We first demonstrate the unique power of this KS set for solving a task while avoiding the problem of state initialization. Such a demonstration is done by showing that, for 28 different quantum states encoded in the orbital-angular-momentum and polarization degrees of freedom of single photons, the KS set provides an impossible-to-beat solution. In a second experiment, we generate maximally contextual quantum correlations by performing compatible sequential measurements of the polarization and path of single photons. In this case, state independence is demonstrated for 15 different initial states. Maximum contextuality and state independence follow from the fact that the sequences of measurements project any initial quantum state onto one of the KS set's eigenstates. Our results show that KS sets can be used for quantum-information processing and quantum computation and pave the way for future developments.

id: 1209.1837
title: Qubit-Controlled Displacements in Markovian Environments
authors: Tommaso Tufarelli
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures --- some important references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1837
abstract: We study a particular form of interaction Hamiltonian between qubits and quantum harmonic oscillators, whose closed system dynamics results in qubit controlled displacement operations. We show how this interaction is realizable in many setups, including nanomechanical systems, ion traps, cavity QED and circuit QED, and in each context we provide quantitative estimates for the relevant parameters. The dynamics of the system is investigated through a master equation, including typical decoherence mechanisms resulting from the coupling of the qubit and oscillator to a thermal Markovian environment. We show how to solve the master equation by adopting a phase-space representation for the oscillator, and derive analytical and approximate solutions for many special cases of interest. Finally, our techniques are applied to a relevant example by studying the dynamics of qubit-oscillator entanglement and the preparation of oscillator states with negative Wigner function.

id: 1209.1843
title: Quantum state fusion in photons
authors: Chiara Vitelli, Nicol¨° Spagnolo, Lorenzo Aparo, Fabio Sciarrino, Enrico Santamato, Lorenzo Marrucci
comments: 7 pages main paper plus 9 pages supplementary materials
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 521-526 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1843
abstract: Photons are the ideal carriers of quantum information for communication. Each photon can have a single qubit or even multiple qubits encoded in its internal quantum state, as defined by optical degrees of freedom such as polarization, wavelength, transverse modes, etc. Here, we propose and experimentally demonstrate a physical process, named "quantum state fusion", in which the two-dimensional quantum states (qubits) of two input photons are combined into a single output photon, within a four-dimensional quantum space. The inverse process is also proposed, in which the four-dimensional quantum state of a single photon is split into two photons, each carrying a qubit. Both processes can be iterated, and hence may be used to bridge multi-particle protocols of quantum information with the multi-degree-of-freedom ones, with possible applications in quantum communication networks.

id: 1209.1884
title: Measurement-Induced Nonlocality in an $n$-partite quantum state
authors: Ali Saif M. Hassan, Pramod S. Joag
comments: 8 pages, four figures, introduction is modified, summary and comments added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1884
abstract: We generalize the concept of measurement-induced non-locality (MiN) to $n$-partite quantum states. We get exact analytical expressions for MiN in an $n$-partite pure and $n$-qubit mixed state. We obtain the conditions under which MiN equals geometric quantum discord in an $n$-partite pure state and an $n$-qubit mixed state.

id: 1209.1991
title: Dissipative Preparation of Spin Squeezed Atomic Ensembles in a Steady State
authors: Emanuele G. Dalla Torre, Johannes Otterbach, Eugene Demler, Vladan Vuletic, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 120402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1991
abstract: We present and analyze a new approach for the generation of atomic spin squeezed states. Our method involves the collective coupling of an atomic ensemble to a decaying mode of an open optical cavity. We demonstrate the existence of a collective atomic dark-state, decoupled from the radiation field. By explicitly constructing this state we find that it can feature spin squeezing bounded only by the Heisenberg limit. We show that such dark states can be deterministically prepared via dissipative means, thus turning dissipation into a resource for entanglement. The scaling of the phase sensitivity taking realistic imperfections into account is discussed.

id: 1209.2036
title: Three-dimensional quantum photonic elements based on single nitrogen vacancy-centres in laser-written microstructures
authors: Andreas W. Schell, Johannes Kaschke, Joachim Fischer, Rico Henze, Janik Wolters, Martin Wegener, Oliver Benson
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1577 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2036
abstract: A fully integrated quantum optical technology requires active quantum systems incorporated into resonant optical microstructures and inter-connected in three dimensions via photonic wires. Nitrogen vacancy-centres (NV-centres) in diamond which are excellent photostable room temperature single-photon emitters are ideal candidates for that purpose. Extensive research efforts to couple NV-centres to photonic structures such as optical microresonators, microcavities, and waveguides have been pursued. Strategies for integration range from top-down fabrication via etching of diamond membranes to sophisticated bottom-up assembly of hybrid structures using diamond nanocrystals where the latter approach allows for deterministic coupling. Recently, another approach based on the incorporation of nanodiamonds in soft glass optical fibres via a melting process has been introduced. Here, we utilize two-photon direct laser writing (DLW) to fabricate fully three-dimensional (3D) structures from a photoresist mixed with a solution of nanodiamonds containing NV-centres. For the first time, this approach facilitates building integrated 3D quantum photonic elements of nearly arbitrary shapes.

id: 1209.2050
title: Role of the non-locality of the vector potential in the Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: A. M. Stewart
comments: v5. 12 pages, 1 Figure pdf. Two appendices added
journal: Canadian Journal of Physics, 91 (5), 373-377 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2050
abstract: When the electromagnetic potentials are expressed in the Coulomb gauge in terms of the electric and magnetic fields rather than the sources responsible for these fields they have a simple form that is non-local i.e. the potentials depend on the fields at every point in space. It is this non-locality of classical electrodynamics that is at first instance responsible for the puzzle associated with the Aharonov-Bohm effect: that its interference pattern is affected by fields in a region of space that the electron beam never enters.

id: 1209.2095
title: Quantum Walks on Sierpinski Gaskets
authors: Pedro Carlos S. Lara, Renato Portugal, Stefan Boettcher
comments: 12 pages, 6 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2095
abstract: We analyze discrete-time quantum walks on Sierpinski gaskets using a flip-flop shift operator with the Grover coin. We obtain the scaling of two important physical quantities: the mean-square displacement and the mixing time as function of the number of points. The Sierpinski gasket is a fractal that lacks translational invariance and the results differ from those described in the literature for ordinary lattices. We find that the displacement varies with the initial location. Averaged over all initial locations, our simulation obtain an exponent very similar to classical diffusion.

id: 1209.2133
title: Ion chains in high-finesse cavities
authors: Cecilia Cormick, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures. Minor changes, matches the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013829 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2133
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of a chain of singly-charged ions confined in a linear Paul trap and which couple with the mode of a high-finesse optical resonator. In these settings the ions interact via the Coulomb repulsion and are subject to the mechanical forces due to scattering of cavity photons. We show that the interplay of these interactions can give rise to bistable equilibrium configurations, into which the chain can be cooled by cavity-enhanced photon scattering. We characterize the resulting equilibrium structures by determining the stationary state in the semiclassical limit for both cavity field and crystal motion. The mean occupation of the vibrational modes at steady state is evaluated, showing that the vibrational modes coupled to the cavity can be simultaneously cooled to low occupation numbers. It is also found that at steady state the vibrations are entangled with the cavity field fluctuations. The entanglement is quantified by means of the logarithmic negativity. The spectrum of the light at the cavity output is evaluated and the features signaling entanglement are here identified.

id: 1209.2157
title: Surface Code Threshold in the Presence of Correlated Errors
authors: E. Novais, Eduardo R. Mucciolo
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 10502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2157
abstract: We study the fidelity of the surface code in the presence of correlated errors induced by the coupling of physical qubits to a bosonic environment. By mapping the time evolution of the system after one quantum error correction cycle onto a statistical spin model, we show that the existence of an error threshold is related to the appearance of an order-disorder phase transition in the statistical model in the thermodynamic limit. This allows us to relate the error threshold to bath parameters and to the spatial range of the correlated errors.

id: 1209.2162
title: (Quantumness in the context of) Resource Theories
authors: Micha? Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: review article
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1345019 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2162
abstract: We review the basic idea behind resource theories, where we quantify quantum resources by specifying a restricted class of operations. This divides the state space into various sets, including states which are free (because they can be created under the class of operations), and those which are a resource (because they cannot be). One can quantify the worth of the resource by the relative entropy distance to the set of free states, and under certain conditions, this is a unique measure which quantifies the rate of state to state transitions. The framework includes entanglement, asymmetry and purity theory. It also includes thermodynamics, which is a hybrid resource theory combining purity theory and asymmetry. Another hybrid resource theory which merges purity theory and entanglement can be used to study quantumness of correlations and discord, and we present quantumness in this more general framework of resource theories.

id: 1209.2176
title: Experimental detection of quantum coherent evolution through the violation of Leggett-Garg inequalities
authors: Zong-Quan Zhou, Susana F. Huelga, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: New experimental results using true single photon sources
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2176
abstract: We present an experimental violation of Leggett-Garg-type inequalities (LGI) with delocalized single-photon excitations sustained in millimeter-sized crystals. Through the reversible transfer of photonic polarization states and the collective atomic excitation of two quantum memories, we prepared a superposition state of a delocalized excitation in two crystals separated by a distance of 4 mm. The phase relation between the states in the superposition is governed by the dynamics of a large number of individual atoms and can be controlled with a frequency detuned and polarization dependent atomic frequency comb. By separately benchmarking the Markovian character of the evolution and the translation invariance of the conditional probabilities, the observed violation of a LGI is unambiguously attributed to the quantum coherent character of the process. These results confirm the persistence of quantum features within systems of increasing complexity.

id: 1209.2209
title: Momentum spectrometry of spherical harmonics and a probe of geometric embedding effect
authors: Q. H. Liu
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2209
abstract: As a submanifold is embedded into higher dimensional flat space, quantum mechanics gives various embedding quantities, e.g., the geometric momentum and geometric potential, etc. For a particle moving on a two-dimensional sphere or a free rotation of a spherical top, the projections of the geometric momentum p and the angular momentum L onto a certain Cartesian axis form a complete set of commuting observables as [p_{i},L_{i}]=0 (i=1,2,3). We have therefore a (p_{i},L_{i}) representation for the states on the two-dimensional spherical surface. The geometric momentum distribution of the ground states for a freely rotating rigid rotor seems within the resolution power of present momentum spectrometer and can be measured to probe the embedding effect.

id: 1209.2221
title: Verification of quantum discord
authors: Saleh Rahimi-Keshari, Carlton M. Caves, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012119 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2221
abstract: We introduce a measurement-based method for verifying quantum discord of any bipartite quantum system. We show that by performing an informationally complete POVM (IC-POVM) on one subsystem and checking the commutativity of the conditional states of the other subsystem, quantum discord from the second subsystem to the first can be verified. This is an improvement upon previous methods, which enables us to efficiently apply our method to continuous-variable systems, as IC-POVMs are readily available from homodyne or heterodyne measurements. We show that quantum discord for Gaussian states can be verified by checking whether the peaks of the conditional Wigner functions corresponding to two different outcomes of heterodyne measurement coincide at the same point in the phase space. Using this method, we also prove that the only Gaussian states with zero discord are product states; hence, Gaussian states with Gaussian discord have nonzero quantum discord.

id: 1209.2231
title: Effects of free-electron-laser field fluctuations on the frequency response of driven atomic resonances
authors: G. M. Nikolopoulos, P. Lambropoulos
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033420 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2231
abstract: We study the effects of field fluctuations on the total yields of Auger electrons, obtained in the excitation of neutral atoms to a core-excited state by means of short-wavelength free-electron-laser pulses. Beginning with a self-contained analysis of the statistical properties of fluctuating free-electron-laser pulses, we analyse separately and in detail the cases of single and double Auger resonances, focusing on fundamental phenomena such as power broadening and ac Stark (Autler-Townes) splitting. In certain cases, field fluctuations are shown to influence dramatically the frequency response of the resonances, whereas in other cases the signal obtained may convey information about the bandwidth of the radiation as well as the dipole moment between Auger states.

id: 1209.2252
title: Quantum Parrondo's games using quantum walks
authors: Adrian P. Flitney
comments: LaTeX, 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2252
abstract: We study a quantum walk in one-dimension using two different "coin" operators. By mixing two operators, both of which give a biased walk with negative expectation value for the walker position, it is possible to reverse the bias through interference effects. This effect is analogous to that in Parrondo's games, where alternating two losing (gambling) games can produce a winning game. The walker bias is produced by introducing a phase factor into the coin operator, with two different phase factors giving games $A$ and $B$. We give the range of phases for which the Parrondo effect can be obtained with $A$ and $B$ played alternately or in other (repeated) deterministic sequences. The effect is transitory. For sufficiently large times the original bias resumes.

id: 1209.2285
title: Optimal transfer of an unknown state via a bipartite operation
authors: Yang Liu, Yu Guo, D.L. Zhou
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: EPL 102 (2013) 50003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2285
abstract: A fundamental task in quantum information science is to transfer an unknown state from particle $A$ to particle $B$ (often in remote space locations) by using a bipartite quantum operation $\mathcal{E}^{AB}$. We suggest the power of $\mathcal{E}^{AB}$ for quantum state transfer (QST) to be the maximal average probability of QST over the initial states of particle $B$ and the identifications of the state vectors between $A$ and $B$. We find the QST power of a bipartite quantum operations satisfies four desired properties between two $d$-dimensional Hilbert spaces. When $A$ and $B$ are qubits, the analytical expressions of the QST power is given. In particular, we obtain the exact results of the QST power for a general two-qubit unitary transformation.

id: 1209.2392
title: When is an input state always better than the others ?: universally optimal input states for statistical inference of quantum channels
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2392
abstract: Statistical estimation and test of unknown channels have attracted interest of many researchers. In optimizing the process of inference, an important step is optimization of the input state, which in general do depend on the kind of inference (estimation or test, etc.), on the error measure, and so on. But sometimes, there is a universally optimal input state, or an input state best for all the statistical inferences and for all the risk functions. In the paper, the existence of a universally optimal state is shown for group covariant/contravariant channels, unital qubit channels and some measurement families. To prove these results, theory of "comparison of state families" are used. We also discuss about effectiveness of entanglement and adaptation of input states.

id: 1209.2423
title: Reply to recent scepticism about the foundations of quantum cryptography
authors: Renato Renner
comments: 1 page + references and footnotes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2423
abstract: In a series of recent papers, Hirota and Yuen claim to have identified a fundamental flaw in the theory underlying quantum cryptography, which would invalidate existing security proofs. In this short note, we sketch their argument and show that their conclusion is unjustified --- it originates from a confusion between necessary and sufficient criteria for secrecy.

id: 1209.2426
title: Magic state distillation with low overhead
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Jeongwan Haah
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052329 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2426
abstract: We propose a new family of error detecting stabilizer codes with an encoding rate 1/3 that permit a transversal implementation of the pi/8-rotation $T$ on all logical qubits. The new codes are used to construct protocols for distilling high-quality `magic' states $T|+>$ by Clifford group gates and Pauli measurements. The distillation overhead has a poly-logarithmic scaling as a function of the output accuracy, where the degree of the polynomial is $\log_2{3}\approx 1.6$. To construct the desired family of codes, we introduce the notion of a triorthogonal matrix --- a binary matrix in which any pair and any triple of rows have even overlap. Any triorthogonal matrix gives rise to a stabilizer code with a transversal $T$-gate on all logical qubits, possibly augmented by Clifford gates. A powerful numerical method for generating triorthogonal matrices is proposed. Our techniques lead to a two-fold overhead reduction for distilling magic states with output accuracy $10^{-12}$ compared with the best previously known protocol.

id: 1209.2445
title: Time-extended measurement of the position of a driven harmonic oscillator
authors: Francesc S. Roig
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2445
abstract: The von Neumann interaction between a particle and an apparatus, both of arbitrary mass, has been considered in the measurement of the position of a simple harmonic oscillator acted on by an external force. When the measurement has finite duration, both the motion of the pointer and the oscillator influence the result of the measurement. Provided that the oscillator is in an eigenstate of its position at the start of the measurement, the pointer will indicate the arithmetic average between the initial and final position of the particle with an added term which depends on the duration of the measurement and the frequency of the oscillator. This additional term is determined by the external force which also causes the appearance of a phase factor in the wave function at the end of the measurement. This phase factor depends on the average of the initial and final positions of the particle. Furthermore, the probability that the pointer will indicate a given average value is equal to the transition probability for the undisturbed free oscillator to experience the change in position. If the initial state of the pointer is a narrow wavepacket, then for any initial state of the oscillator, the measurement yields, approximately, the undisturbed probability distribution for the position of the free oscillator at the end of the measurement. The transition probability for the pointer to experience a change in its position has also been evaluated.

id: 1209.2464
title: A Compact Source for Quantum Image Processing with Four-wave Mixing in Rubidium-85
authors: Ulrich Vogl, Ryan T. Glasser, Paul D. Lett
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Proceedings of SPIE 8274, 82740C (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2464
abstract: We have built a compact light source for bright squeezed twin-beams at 795\,nm based on four-wave-mixing in atomic $^{85}$Rb vapor. With a total optical power of 400\,mW derived from a free running diode laser and a tapered amplifier to pump the four-wave-mixing process, we achieve 2.1\,dB intensity difference squeezing of the twin beams below the standard quantum limit, without accounting for losses. Squeezed twin beams generated by the type of source presented here could be used as reference for the precise calibration of photodetectors. Transferring the quantum correlations from the light to atoms in order to generate correlated atom beams is another interesting prospect. In this work we investigate the dispersion that is generated by the employed four-wave-mixing process with respect to bandwidth and dependence on probe detuning. We are currently using this squeezed light source to test the transfer of spatial information and quantum correlations through media of anomalous dispersion.

id: 1209.2475
title: Coupling of ultrathin tapered fibers with high-Q microsphere resonators at cryogenic temperatures and observation of phase-shift transition from undercoupling to overcoupling
authors: Masazumi Fujiwara, Tetsuya Noda, Akira Tanaka, Kiyota Toubaru, Hong-Quan Zhao, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 
journal: Optics Express 20, 19545 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2475
abstract: We cooled ultrathin tapered fibers to cryogenic temperatures and controllably coupled them with high-Q microsphere resonators at a wavelength close to the optical transition of diamond nitrogen vacancy centers. The 310-nm-diameter tapered fibers were stably nanopositioned close to the microspheres with a positioning stability of approximately 10 nm over a temperature range of 7-28 K. A cavity-induced phase shift was observed in this temperature range, demonstrating a discrete transition from undercoupling to overcoupling.

id: 1209.2494
title: Spontaneous excitation of a uniformly accelerated atom coupled with vacuum Dirac field fluctuations
authors: Wenting Zhou, Hongwei Yu
comments: 14 pages, no figures, typos corrected, version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 86, 033841 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2494
abstract: We study the spontaneous excitation of a uniformly accelerated two-level atom non-linearly coupled with vacuum Dirac field fluctuations using the formalism proposed by Dalibard, Dupont-Roc and Cohen-Tannoudji (DDC) and generalized to the present case in the current paper. We find that a cross term involving both vacuum fluctuations and radiation reaction appears, which is absent in the linear coupling cases such as an atom interacting with vacuum scalar or electromagnetic fluctuations. Furthermore, the contribution of this term actually dominates over that of radiation reaction. Thus, the mean rate of change of the atomic energy can no longer be distinctively separated into only the contributions of vacuum fluctuations and radiation reaction as in the scalar and electromagnetic cases where the coupling is linear. Our result shows that a uniformly accelerated atom interacting with vacuum Dirac fluctuations would spontaneously excite and a unique feature in sharp contrast to the scalar and electromagnetic cases is the appearance of a term in the excitation rate which is proportional to the quartic acceleration.

id: 1209.2499
title: Simulating many-body lattice systems on a single nano-mechanical resonator
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, revtex 4-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2499
abstract: We show that lattice systems, such as the Bose-Hubbard model, can be simulated on a single nano- or micro-mechanical resonator, by exploiting its many modes. The on-site Hamiltonians are engineered by coupling the mechanical modes to the modes of a pair of optical or stripline resonators, and the connections between the lattice sites are engineered in a similar way. The lattice network structure is encoded in the frequency components of the fields driving the resonators. This three-resonator configuration also allows universal quantum computing on the nano-resonator.

id: 1209.2556
title: Some properties of maximally entangled ELW game
authors: Katarzyna Bolonek-Lason, Piotr Kosinski
comments: 12 pages, no figures; the paper is substantially enlarged. Accepted for publication in PTEP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2556
abstract: The Eisert et al. maximally entangled quantum game is studied within the framework of (elementary) group theory. It is shown that the game can be described in terms of real Hilbert space of states. It is also shown that the crucial properties of the maximally entangled case, like quaternionic structure and the existence, to any given strategy, the corresponding counterstrategy, result from the existence of large stability subgroup of initial state of the game.

id: 1209.2565
title: Should the wave-function be a part of the quantum ontological state?
authors: A. Drezet
comments: Progress in Physics, vol 4 (October 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2565
abstract: We analyze the recent no go theorem by Pusey, Barrett and Rudolph (PBR) concerning ontic and epistemic hidden variables. We define two fundamental requirements for the validity of the result. We finally compare the models satisfying the theorem with the historical hidden variable approach proposed by de Broglie and Bohm.

id: 1209.2683
title: Generalized teleportation and entanglement recycling
authors: Sergii Strelchuk, Micha? Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 069902 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2683
abstract: We introduce new teleportation protocols which are generalizations of the original teleportation protocols that use the Pauli group [Bennett, et al. Physical Review Letters, 70(13) 1895-1899] and the port-based teleportation protocols, introduced by Hiroshima and Ishizaka [Physical Review Letters, 101(24) 240501], that use the symmetric permutation group. We derive sufficient condition for a set of operations, which in general need not form a group, to give rise to a teleportation protocol and provide examples of such schemes. This generalization leads to protocols with novel properties and is needed to push forward new schemes of computation based on them. Port-based teleportation protocols and our generalizations use a large resource state consisting of N singlets to teleport only a single qubit state reliably. We provide two distinct protocols which recycle the resource state to teleport multiple states with error linearly increasing with their number. The first protocol consists of sequentially teleporting qubit states, and the second teleports them in a bulk.

id: 1209.2698
title: Analytical progress on symmetric geometric discord: Measurement-based upper bounds
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Pawel Horodecki, Ravindra W. Chhajlany, Jan Tuziemski, Jan Sperling
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042123 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2698
abstract: Quantum correlations may be measured by means of the distance of the state to the subclass of states $\Omega$ having well defined classical properties. In particular, a geometric measure of asymmetric discord [Dakic et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 190502 (2010)] was recently defined as the Hilbert-Schmidt distance of a given two-qubit state to the closest classical-quantum (CQ) correlated state. We analyze a geometric measure of symmetric discord defined as the Hilbert-Schmidt distance of a given state to the closest classical-classical (CC) correlated state. The optimal member of $\Omega$ is just specially measured original state both for the CQ and CC discords. This implies that this measure is equal to quantum deficit of post-measurement purity. We discuss some general relations between the CC discords and explain why an analytical formula for the CC discord, contrary to the CQ discord, can hardly be found even for a general two-qubit state. Instead of such exact formula, we find simple analytical measurement-based upper bounds for the CC discord which, as we show, are very efficient in the case of two qubits and may serve as independent indicators of two-party quantum correlations. In particular, we propose an adaptive upper bound, which corresponds to the optimal states induced by single-party measurements: optimal measurement on one of the parties determines an optimal measurement on the other party. We discuss how to refine the adaptive upper bound by nonoptimal single-party measurements and by an iterative procedure which usually rapidly converges to the CC discord. We also raise the question of optimality of the symmetric measurements realising the CC discord on symmetric states, and give partial answer for the qubit case.

id: 1209.2713
title: Explicit relation between all lower bound techniques for quantum query complexity
authors: Lo?ck Magnin, J¨¦r¨¦mie Roland
comments: 20 pages. v2: typos corrected
journal: Proceedings of the 30th International Symposium on Theoretical Aspects of Computer Science (STACS 2013) p. 434--445
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2713
abstract: The polynomial method and the adversary method are the two main techniques to prove lower bounds on quantum query complexity, and they have so far been considered as unrelated approaches. Here, we show an explicit reduction from the polynomial method to the multiplicative adversary method. The proof goes by extending the polynomial method from Boolean functions to quantum state generation problems. In the process, the bound is even strengthened. We then show that this extended polynomial method is a special case of the multiplicative adversary method with an adversary matrix that is independent of the function. This new result therefore provides insight on the reason why in some cases the adversary method is stronger than the polynomial method. It also reveals a clear picture of the relation between the different lower bound techniques, as it implies that all known techniques reduce to the multiplicative adversary method.

id: 1209.2729
title: Characterization of Binary Constraint System Games
authors: Richard Cleve, Rajat Mittal
comments: Revised version corrects an error in the previous version of the proof of Theorem 1 that arises in the case of POVM measurements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2729
abstract: We consider a class of nonlocal games that are related to binary constraint systems (BCSs) in a manner similar to the games implicit in the work of Mermin [N.D. Mermin, "Simple unified form for the major no-hidden-variables theorems," Phys. Rev. Lett., 65(27):3373-3376, 1990], but generalized to n binary variables and m constraints. We show that, whenever there is a perfect entangled protocol for such a game, there exists a set of binary observables with commutations and products similar to those exhibited by Mermin. We also show how to derive upper bounds strictly below 1 for the the maximum entangled success probability of some BCS games. These results are partial progress towards a larger project to determine the computational complexity of deciding whether a given instance of a BCS game admits a perfect entangled strategy or not.

id: 1209.2731
title: Coherent measurements in quantum metrology
authors: K. Micadei, D. A. Rowlands, F. A. Pollock, L. C. C¨¦leri, R. M. Serra, K. Modi
comments: close to published version
journal: New J. Phys. 17, 023057 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2731
abstract: It is well known that a quantum correlated probe can yield better precision in estimating an unknown parameter than classically possible. However, how such a quantum probe should be measured remains somewhat elusive. We examine the role of measurements in quantum metrology by considering two types of readout strategies: coherent, where all probes are measured simultaneously in an entangled basis; and adaptive, where probes are measured sequentially, with each measurement one way conditioned on the prior outcomes. Here we firstly show that for classically correlated probes the two readout strategies yield the same precision. Secondly, we construct an example of a noisy multipartite quantum system where coherent readout yields considerably better precision than adaptive readout. This highlights a fundamental difference between classical and quantum parameter estimation. From the practical point of view, our findings are relevant for the optimal design of precision-measurement quantum devices.

id: 1209.2748
title: Pedagogical introduction to the entropy of entanglement for Gaussian states
authors: Tommaso F. Demarie
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2748
abstract: The most useful measure of a bipartite entanglement is the von Neumann entropy of either of the reduced density matrices. For a particular class of continuous-variable states, the Gaussian states, the entropy of entanglement can be expressed rather elegantly in terms of the symplectic eigenvalues, elements that characterize a Gaussian state and depend on the correlations of the canonical variables. We give a pedagogical step-by-step derivation of this result and provide some insights that can be useful in practical calculations.

id: 1209.2764
title: Universal set of scalable dynamically corrected gates for quantum error correction with always-on qubit couplings
authors: Amrit De, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2764
abstract: We construct a universal set of high fidelity quantum gates to be used on a sparse bipartite lattice with always-on Ising couplings. The gates are based on dynamical decoupling sequences using shaped pulses, they protect against low-frequency phase noise, and can be run in parallel on non-neighboring qubits. This makes them suitable for implementing quantum error correction with low-density parity check codes like the surface codes and their finite-rate generalizations. We illustrate the construction by simulating quantum Zeno effect with the $[[4,2,2]]$ toric code on a spin chain.

id: 1209.2804
title: Exploring a new regime for processing optical qubits: squeezing and unsqueezing single photons
authors: Yoshichika Miwa, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Noriaki Iwata, Mamoru Endo, Petr Marek, Radim Filip, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 013601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2804
abstract: We implement the squeezing operation as a genuine quantum gate, deterministically and reversibly acting `online' upon an input state no longer restricted to the set of Gaussian states. More specifically, by applying an efficient and robust squeezing operation for the first time to non-Gaussian states, we demonstrate a two-way conversion between a particle-like single-photon state and a wave-like superposition of coherent states. Our squeezing gate is reliable enough to preserve the negativities of the corresponding Wigner functions. This demonstration represents an important and necessary step towards hybridizing discrete and continuous quantum protocols.

id: 1209.2805
title: Quantum dynamics of an atom orbiting around an optical nanofiber
authors: Fam Le Kien, Kohzo Hakuta, Philipp Schneeweiss, Arno Rauschenbeutel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063607 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2805
abstract: We propose a novel platform for the investigation of quantum wave packet dynamics, offering a complementary approach to existing theoretical models and experimental systems. It relies on laser-cooled neutral atoms which orbit around an optical nanofiber in an optical potential produced by a red-detuned guided light field. We show that the atomic center-of-mass motion exhibits genuine quantum effects like collapse and revival of the atomic wave packet. As distinctive advantages, our approach features a tunable dispersion relation as well as straightforward readout for the wave packet dynamics and can be implemented using existing quantum optics techniques.

id: 1209.2812
title: Typical behaviour of the global entanglement of an open multiqubit system in a non-markovian regimen
authors: A.P. Majtey, A.R. Plastino
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2812
abstract: We investigate the decay of the global entanglement, due to decoherence, of multiqubit systems interacting with a reservoir in a non Markovian regime. We assume that during the decoherence process each qubit of the system interacts with its own, independent environment. Most previous works on this problem focused on particular initial states or families of initial states amenable of analytical treatment. Here we determine numerically the typical, average behaviour of the system corresponding to random initial pure states uniformly distributed (in the whole Hilbert space of $n$-qubit pure states) according to the Haar measure. We study systems consisting of 3, 4, 5, and 6 qubits. In each case we consider also the entanglement dynamics corresponding to important particular initial states, such as the GHZ states or multiqubit states maximizing the global entanglement, and determine in which cases any of these states is representative of the average behaviour associated with general initial states.

id: 1209.2862
title: Can quantum mechanics be considered as statistical?(comment)
authors: A. Drezet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2862
abstract: This is a short manuscript which was initially submitted to Nature Physics as a comment to the PBR (Pusey, M. F., Barrett, J., Rudolph, T) paper just after its publication in 2012. The comment was not accepted. I however think that the argumentation is correct: one is free to judge!

id: 1209.2871
title: Spatial Search Algorithms on Hanoi Networks
authors: Franklin L. Marquezino, Renato Portugal, Stefan Boettcher
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2871
abstract: We use the abstract search algorithm and its extension due to Tulsi to analyze a spatial quantum search algorithm that finds a marked vertex in Hanoi networks of degree 4 faster than classical algorithms. We also analyze the effect of using non-Groverian coins that take advantage of the small world structure of the Hanoi networks. We obtain the scaling of the total cost of the algorithm as a function of the number of vertices. We show that Tulsi's technique plays an important role to speed up the searching algorithm. We can improve the algorithm's efficiency by choosing a non-Groverian coin if we do not implement Tulsi's method. Our conclusion is based on numerical implementations.

id: 1209.2901
title: State-independent experimental test of quantum contextuality in solid state system
authors: Xin-Yu Pan, Yan-Chun Chang, Gang-Qin Liu, Heng Fan
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2901
abstract: Quantum mechanics implies that not all physical properties can be simultaneously well defined, such as the momentum and position due to Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Some alternative theories have been explored, notably the non-contextual hidden variable theories in which the properties of a system have pre-defined values which are independent of the measurement contextual. However, the Kochen-Specker theorem showed that such non-contextual hidden variable theories are in conflict with quantum mechanics. Recently, a state-independent inequality satisfied by non-contextual hidden variable theories and violated by quantum mechanics is proposed in the simplest three-state system (a qutrit) by the least 13 projection measurement rays. Here, we report an experimental demonstration of the violation of this inequality. This provides a state-independent experimental test of quantum contextuality, for the first time in solid state system, by a natural qutrit of nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond at room temperature.

id: 1209.2940
title: Lifetime of topological quantum memories in thermal environment
authors: Abbas Al-Shimary, James R. Wootton, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2940
abstract: Here we investigate the effect lattice geometry has on the lifetime of two-dimensional topological quantum memories. Initially, we introduce various lattice patterns and show how the error-tolerance against bit-flips and phase-flips depends on the structure of the underlying lattice. Subsequently, we investigate the dependence of the lifetime of the quantum memory on the structure of the underlying lattice when it is subject to a finite temperature. Importantly, we provide a simple effective formula for the lifetime of the memory in terms of the average degree of the lattice. Finally, we propose optimal geometries for the Josephson junction implementation of topological quantum memories.

id: 1209.2958
title: Teleportation of one ququat encoded in single mode superposition of coherent states
authors: Hari Prakash, Manoj K Mishra
comments: 16 pages, 4 Figures and 2 Tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2958
abstract: Superposition of optical coherent states (SCS) Ket(plus/minus alpha), possessing opposite phases, plays an important role as qubits in quantum information processing tasks like quantum computation, teleportation, cryptography etc. and are of fundamental importance in testing quantum mechanics. Recently, ququats and qutrits defined in four and three dimensional (D) Hilbert space, respectively, have attracted much more attention as they present advantage in secure quantum communication and also in researches on the foundation of quantum mechanics. Here, we show that superposition of four non-orthogonal coherent states Ket(plus/minus alpha) and Ket(plus/minus i alpha), that are 90 degrees out of phase, can be employed for encoding one ququat defined in a 4D Hilbert space spanned by four newly defined multi-photonic states, Ket(alpha subscript j) with 4n+j numbers of photons, where, j= 0, 1, 2, 3. We propose a scheme which generates states Ket(alpha subscript j). When these states fall on a 50-50 beam splitter, the result is bipartite four-component entangled coherent state which represents equivalently an entangled ququat. Finally, we propose a linear optical scheme that gives almost perfect teleportation (minimum average fidelity greater than or equal to 0.99) of single ququat encoded in SCS using entangled ququat based on coherent states with almost perfect success rate for coherent amplitude mod(alpha) greater than or equal to 3.2. The present theoretical investigation and teleportation protocol is important in the sense that ququat allows the quantum information to be encoded and processed much more compactly and efficiently using fewer coupled quantum system.

id: 1209.2962
title: Bound entanglement helps to reduce communication complexity
authors: Michael Epping, Caslav Brukner
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032305 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2962
abstract: We present a simple communication complexity problem where three parties benefit from sharing bound entanglement. This demonstrates that entanglement distillability of the shared state is not necessary in order to surpass classical communication complexity.

id: 1209.3005
title: Initial Conditions and Entanglement Sudden Death
authors: Xiao-Feng Qian, J.H. Eberly
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physics Letter A 376, 2931 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3005
abstract: We report results bearing on the behavior of non-local decoherence and its potential for being managed or even controlled. The decoherence process known as entanglement sudden death (ESD) can drive prepared entanglement to zero at the same time that local coherences and fidelity remain non-zero. For a generic ESD-susceptible Bell superposition state, we provide rules restricting the occurrence and timing of ESD, amounting to management tools over a continuous variation of initial conditions. These depend on only three parameters: initial purity, entanglement and excitation. Knowledge or control of initial phases is not needed.

id: 1209.3039
title: Advanced Detection of Information in Optical Pulses with Negative Group Velocity
authors: Ulrich Vogl, Ryan T. Glasser, Paul D. Lett
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 031806(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3039
abstract: In this letter we experimentally demonstrate that the signal velocity, defined as the earliest time when a signal is detected above the realistic noise floor, may be altered by a region of anomalous dispersion. We encode information in the spatial degree of freedom of an optical pulse so that the imprinted information is not limited by the frequency bandwidth of the region of anomalous dispersion. We then show that the combination of superluminal pulse propagation and realistic detectors with non-ideal quantum efficiency leads to a speed-up of the earliest experimentally obtainable arrival time of the transmitted signal even with the overall pulse experiencing unity gain. This speed-up is reliant upon non-ideal detectors and losses, as perfect detection efficiency would result in the speed of information being equal to the speed of light in vacuum, regardless of the group velocity of the optical pulses.

id: 1209.3076
title: Design and analysis of photonic crystal coupled cavity arrays for quantum simulation
authors: Arka Majumdar, Armand Rundquist, Michal Bajcsy, Vaishno D. Dasika, Seth R. Bank, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3076
abstract: We performed an experimental study of coupled optical cavity arrays in a photonic crystal platform. We find that the coupling between the cavities is significantly larger than the fabrication-induced disorder in the cavity frequencies. Satisfying this condition is necessary for using such cavity arrays to generate strongly correlated photons, which has potential application to the quantum simulation of many-body systems.

id: 1209.3095
title: Quantum teleportation between "particle-like" and "field-like" qubits using hybrid entanglement under decoherence effects
authors: Kimin Park, Seung-Woo Lee, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, a section has been added to discuss the postselection issue for teleportation, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3095
abstract: We study quantum teleportation between two different types of optical qubits, one of which is "particle-like" and the other "field-like," via hybrid entangled states under the effects of decoherence. We find that teleportation from particle-like to field-like qubits can be achieved with a higher fidelity than that in the opposite direction. However, teleportation from field-like to particle-like qubits is found to be more efficient in terms of the success probabilities. Our study shows that the direction of teleportation should be considered an important factor in developing optical hybrid architectures for quantum information processing.

id: 1209.3109
title: Long Distance Atomic Teleportation using Entangled Coherent States and Cavity Assisted Interaction
authors: Manoj K. Mishra, Hari Prakash
comments: 12 Pages, 2 Figures and 1 Table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3109
abstract: The schemes proposed by S. Bose et al [Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 5158 (1999)] and others for long distance atomic teleportation using cavity decay, gives message state dependent fidelity on successful attempt and in case of failure message state destroys. We propose a different scheme for teleportation of an atomic state from one cavity to a distant cavity by reflecting optical-pulse modes of an entangled coherent state (ECS) from single atom-cavity systems and detecting whether light is on or off. Unit success with unit fidelity is obtained for large mean photon number (|{\alpha}|^2). For small |{\alpha}|^2, however, there is some probability of failure but message state does not destroy, and this allows us to achieve unit success in a few repeated attempts. Unlike previous schemes, our scheme also enjoys advantages of deterministic generation of ECS, robustness of ECS against de-coherence due to photon absorption, and it does not require many-stage cavity interactions and single photon detection ability.

id: 1209.3110
title: Extracting joint weak values from two-dimensional spatial displacements
authors: Hirokazu Kobayashi, Graciana Puentes, Yutaka Shikano
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053805 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3110
abstract: The joint weak value is a counterfactual quantity related to quantum correlations and quantum dynamics, which can be retrieved via weak measurements, as initiated by Aharonov and colleagues. In this Rapid Communication, we provide a full analytical extension of the method described by Puentes et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 040401 (2012)], to extract the joint weak values of single-particle operators from two-dimensional spatial displacements of Laguerre-Gauss probe states, for the case of azimuthal index |l|>1. This method has a statistical advantage over previous ones since information about the conjugate observable, i.e., the momentum displacement of the probe, is not required. Moreover, we demonstrate that under certain conditions, the joint weak value can be extracted directly from spatial displacements without any additional data processing.

id: 1209.3121
title: Superradiant phase transition in a model of three-level-lambda systems interacting with two bosonic modes
authors: Mathias Hayn, Clive Emary, Tobias Brandes
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063822 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3121
abstract: We consider an ensemble of three-level particles in lambda-configuration interacting with two bosonic modes. The Hamiltonian has the form of a generalized Dicke-model. We show that in the thermodynamic limit this model supports a superradiant quantum phase transition. Remarkably, this can be both a first and a second order phase transition. A connection of the phase diagram to the symmetries of the Hamiltonian is also given. In addition, we show that this model can describe atoms interacting with an electromagnetic field in which the microscopic Hamiltonian includes a diamagnetic contribution. Even though the parameters of the atomic system respect the Thomas--Reiche--Kuhn sum rule, the system still shows a superradiant phase transition.

id: 1209.3136
title: Quantum Zeno effect in an unstable system with NMR
authors: Yuichiro Matsuzaki, Hirotaka Tanaka
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3136
abstract: We theoretically propose a scheme for verification of quantum Zeno effect (QZE) to suppress a decay process with Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR). Nuclear spins are affected by low frequency noise, and so one can naturally observe non-exponential decay behavior, which is prerequisite in observing QZE. We also describe that a key component for QZE, namely measurements on the nuclear spin, can be realized with NMR in the current technology

id: 1209.3144
title: Noise-enhanced quantum transport on a closed loop using quantum walks
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar, Th. Busch
comments: 13 pages, 13 figures. To appear in Quantum Information Processing (2014)
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Volume 13, Issue 6, Pages 1313-1329 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3144
abstract: We study the effect of noise on the transport of a quantum state from a closed loop of $n-$sites with one of the sites as a sink. Using a discrete-time quantum walk dynamics, we demonstrate that the transport efficiency can be enhanced with noise when the number of sites in the loop is small and reduced when the number of sites in the loop grows. By using the concept of measurement induced disturbance we identify the regimes in which genuine quantum effects are responsible for the enhanced transport.

id: 1209.3153
title: Transitionless quantum driving for spin systems
authors: Kazutaka Takahashi
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, new section added
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 062117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3153
abstract: We apply the method of transitionless quantum driving for time-dependent quantum systems to spin systems. For a given Hamiltonian, the driving Hamiltonian is constructed so that the adiabatic states of the original system obey the Schroedinger equation. For several typical systems such as the XY spin chain and the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model, the driving Hamiltonian is constructed explicitly. We discuss possible interesting situations when the driving Hamiltonian becomes time independent and when the driving Hamiltonian is equivalent to the original one. For many-body systems, a crucial problem occurs at the quantum phase transition point where the energy gap between the ground and first excited states becomes zero. We discuss how the defect can be circumvented in the present method.

id: 1209.3169
title: Entangling successive single-photons from quantum dots
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3169
abstract: A method is proposed for generating and discriminating Bell states of high fidelity from consecutive single-photons generated in a semiconductor quantum dot. The use of a non-symmetric beam splitter is found to be essential and sufficient, and no nonlinear optical process such as SPDC is required at any stage. This should be of considerable importance for testing the foundations of quantum mechanics.

id: 1209.3265
title: On the spectrum of a class of quantum models
authors: Alexander Moroz
comments: Kreuser's generalization of Perron's theorem enabled (i) to straightforwardly broaden the definition of the class of quantum models and (ii) to provide a general proof that $\phi_m(z)\in {\cal B}$ (6 pages comprising 3 figures; to appear in Europhys. Lett.)
journal: Europhys. Lett. 100, 60010 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3265
abstract: The spectrum of any quantum model which eigenvalue equation reduces to a three-term recurrence, such as a displaced harmonic oscillator, the Jaynes-Cummings (JC) model, the Rabi model, and a generalized Rabi model, can be determined as zeros of a corresponding transcendental function F(x). The latter can be analytically determined as an infinite series defined solely in terms of the recurrence coefficients. The ease in obtaining the spectrum is of importance regarding recent experimental advances in preparing ultrastrongly interacting quantum systems, which can no longer be reliably described by the exactly solvable JC model. The relevant computer code has been made freely available online.

id: 1209.3268
title: Entanglement enhancement in spatially inhomogeneous many-body systems
authors: Tobias Bruenner, Erich Runge, Andreas Buchleitner, Vivian V. Franca
comments: Accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032311 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3268
abstract: We investigate the effects of spatial inhomogeneities on the entanglement of modes of strongly correlated systems in the framework of small Fermi-Hubbard chains. We find regimes where entanglement is strongly enhanced by the presence of inhomogeneities. This contrasts recent reports of entanglement destruction due to inhomogeneities. We further study this phenomenon using concepts of Density Functional Theory and, thus, provide a general recipe for the prediction of entanglement enhancement in nanostructures. We find enhancement of up to ~24%, as compared to impurity-free chains.

id: 1209.3270
title: Relativistic effects for spin splitting of neutral particles: Upper bound and motional narrowing
authors: Tihomir G. Tenev, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052114 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3270
abstract: We explore the properties of spin splitting for neutral particles possessing electric and magnetic dipole moments propagating in an electromagnetic field. Two notable features of the spin splitting and the associated Larmor precession are found, which are consequences of special relativity. First, we report the existence of an upper limit of spin splitting equal to twice the rest energy of the particle, and a corresponding upper limit for the Larmor precession frequency. Second, we predict the noninvariance of the spin splitting and the corresponding Larmor frequency with respect to Lorentz boosts, which bears resemblance to the classical Doppler effect.

id: 1209.3288
title: Quantum electrodynamics near anisotropic polarizable materials: Casimir-Polder shifts near multi-layers of graphene
authors: Claudia Eberlein, Robert Zietal
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062507 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3288
abstract: In a recent paper we have formulated a theory of non-relativistic quantum electrodynamics in the presence of an inhomogeneous Huttner-Barnett dielectric. Here we generalize the formalism to anisotropic materials and show how it may be modified to include conducting surfaces. We start with the derivation of the photon propagator for a slab of material and use it to work out the energy-level shift near a medium whose conductivity in the direction parallel to the surface far exceeds that in the direction perpendicular to the surface. We investigate the influence of the anisotropy of the material's electromagnetic response on the Casimir-Polder shifts, both analytically and numerically, and show that it may have a significant impact on the atom-surface interaction, especially in the non-retarded regime, i.e. for small atom-surface separations. Our results for the energy shift may be used to estimate the Casimir-Polder force acting on quantum objects close to multilayers of graphene or graphite. They are particularly important for the case of trapped cold molecules whose dispersive interactions with surfaces often fall within the non-retarded regime where the anisotropy of the material strongly influences the Casimir-Polder force. We also give a formula for the change in the spontaneous decay rate of an excited atom or molecule near an anisotropically conducting surface.

id: 1209.3289
title: Simulation of stochastic quantum systems using polynomial chaos expansions
authors: Kevin C. Young, Matthew D. Grace
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 110, 110402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3289
abstract: We present an approach to the simulation of quantum systems driven by classical stochastic processes that is based on the polynomial chaos expansion, a well-known technique in the field of uncertainty quantification. The polynomial chaos expansion represents the system density matrix as a series of orthogonal polynomials in the principle components of the stochastic process and yields a sparsely coupled hierarchy of linear differential equations. We provide practical heuristics for truncating this expansion based on results from time-dependent perturbation theory and demonstrate, via an experimentally relevant one-qubit numerical example, that our technique can be significantly more computationally efficient than Monte Carlo simulation.

id: 1209.3343
title: Quantum Theory of a Steady State Laser
authors: Frederick W. Cummings, Michael T. Tavis
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3343
abstract: A theory of Steady-State laser action is presented which loosely parallels the treatment by H. Frohlich on energy storage in biological systems. The principal lasing elements, taken as N bio level molecules and a single mode quantized radiation field are treated as a single quantum system. Laser action then is seen as a Bose-Einstein like condensation into the lowest energy mode of this correlated system when the pump power exceeds a certain critical value.

id: 1209.3365
title: Spin decoherence and electron spin bath noise of a nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond
authors: Zhi-Hui Wang, Susumu Takahashi
comments: Including 12 pages, 4 figures and supplemental material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3365
abstract: We theoretically investigate spin decoherence of a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond. Using the spin coherent state P-representation method, coherence evolution of the NV center surrounded by nitrogen electron spins (N) is simulated. We find that spin decoherence time as well as free-induction decay of the NV center depend on the spatial configuration of N spins. Both the spin decoherence rate (1/T2) and dephasing rate (1/T2*) of the NV center increase linearly with the concentration of the N spins. Using the P-representation method, we also demonstrate extracting noise spectrum of the N spin bath, which will provide promising pathways for designing an optimum pulse sequence to suppress the decoherence in diamond.

id: 1209.3376
title: Controlling and reversing the transition from classical diffusive to quantum ballistic transport in a quantum walk by driving the coin
authors: Peng Xue, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87(2), 022334 (22 Feb 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3376
abstract: We show that the standard quantum-walk quantum-to-classical transition, characterized by ballistic-to-diffusive spreading of the walker's position, can be controlled by externally modulating the coin state. We illustrate by showing an oscillation between classical diffusive and quantum ballistic spreading using numerical and asymptotically exact closed-form solutions, and we prove that the walker is in a controllable incoherent mixture of classical and quantum walks with a reversible quantum-to-classical transition.

id: 1209.3407
title: Quantum computation with surface-state electrons by rapid population passages
authors: X. Shi, L. F. Wei, C. H. Oh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3407
abstract: Quantum computation requires coherently controlling the evolutions of qubits. Usually, these manipulations are implemented by precisely designing the durations (such as the $\pi$-pulses) of the Rabi oscillations and tunable interbit coupling. Relaxing this requirement, here we show that the desired population transfers between the logic states can be deterministically realized (and thus quantum computation could be implemented) both adiabatically and non-adiabatically, by performing the duration-insensitive quantum manipulations. Our proposal is specifically demonstrated with the surface-state of electrons floating on the liquid helium, but could also be applied to the other artificially controllable systems for quantum computing.

id: 1209.3445
title: Excited-state decay in strictly Everett-like interpretations of quantum mechanics
authors: Jon Geist
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3445
abstract: Excited state decay is examined within the framework of strictly Everett-like (SEL) formulations of quantum mechanics. Even though these formulations were developed for systems of particles as part of a larger system that includes a measurement apparatus, the analysis is carried out in terms of isolated particles because excited state decay measurements are performed under conditions that approximate isolation. It is shown that the time evolution of the wave function describing each particle in a sample of well-isolated identical particles in their lowest excited state must satisfy the same branch topology for all strictly SEL formulations. This topology describes a countably infinite sequence of random branching events that occur at a rate lambda_B for each particle in the sample. Two more parameters are required: lambda_A, the expectation value of the excited-state decay rate determined by an observer state measuring the lifetime of the particles, and epsilon, the probability that an observer state that branches off an observer state associated with the excited state is associated with the excited state following the branching event. There does not appear to be any way to determine the value of epsilon within the framework of SEL formulations. Therefore, contrary to Everett's goal, SEL interpretations do not provide a complete description of every system. However, it is possible to show that lambda_A = (1-epsilon) lambda_B, which with the agreement between theoretical and experimental lifetime determinations provides a conservative upper limit of 0.1% for epsilon at the current state of the art. This result is very different from the example of a superposition of states originally considered by Everett wherein the probability of each final state is given by the conventional Born's rule and no new parameters are required.

id: 1209.3461
title: Entanglement and discord: accelerated observations of local and global modes
authors: Jason Doukas, Eric G. Brown, Andrzej Dragan, Robert Mann
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Minor updates in v2
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012306 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3461
abstract: We investigate the amount of entanglement and quantum discord extractable from a two mode squeezed state as considered from the viewpoint of two observers, Alice (inertial) and Rob (accelerated). We find that using localized modes produces qualitatively different correlation properties for large accelerations than do Unruh modes. Specifically, the entanglement undergoes a sudden death as a function of acceleration and the discord asymptotes to zero in the limit of infinite acceleration. We conclude that the previous Unruh mode analyses do not determine the acceleration dependent entanglement and discord degradation of a given quantum state.

id: 1209.3463
title: Fourier Analytic Approach to Quantum Estimation of Group Action
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: Summary of obtained results with energy constraints were added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3463
abstract: This article proposes a unified method to estimation of group action by using the inverse Fourier transform of the input state. The method provides optimal estimation for commutative and non-commutative group with/without energy constraint. The proposed method can be applied to projective representations of non-compact groups as well as of compact groups. This paper addresses the optimal estimation of R, U(1), SU(2), SO(3), and R^2 with Heisenberg representation under a suitable energy constraint.

id: 1209.3490
title: Hardy's nonlocality argument as witness for post-quantum correlation
authors: Subhadipa Das, Manik Banik, Ashutosh Rai, MD Rajjak Gazi, Samir Kunkri
comments: 3 pages (double column), comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012112 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3490
abstract: Recently, Gallego et.al. [Phys. Rev. Lett 107, 210403 (2011)] proved that any future information principle aiming at distinguishing between quantum and post-quantum correlation must be intrinsically multipartite in nature. We establish similar result by using device independent success probability of Hardy's nonlocality argument for tripartite quantum system. We construct an example of a tri-partite Hardy correlation which is post-quantum but satisfies not only all bipartite information principle but also the GYNI inequality.

id: 1209.3494
title: Optimal fidelity for a quantum channel may be attained by non-maximally entangled states
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Anindita Ghosh
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 020304(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3494
abstract: To establish an entangled state of optimal fidelity between two distant observers when the available quantum channel is noisy, is a central problem in quantum information theory. We consider an instance of this problem for two-qubit systems when only a single use of the channel and local post-processing by trace preserving operations are allowed. We show that the optimal fidelity is obtained only when part of an appropriate non-maximally entangled state is transmitted through the channel. The entanglement of this state can be vanishingly small when the channel becomes very noisy. Moreover, in the optimal case no further local processing is required to enhance the fidelity. We further show that local post-processing can enhance fidelity if and only if the amount of noise is larger than a critical value and entanglement of the transmitted state is bounded from below. A notable consequence of these results is that the ordering of states under an entanglement monotone can be reversed even when the states undergo the same local interaction via a trace-preserving completely positive map.

id: 1209.3539
title: Accurate simulations of planar topological codes cannot use cyclic boundaries
authors: Austin G. Fowler
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures, initial referee comments incorporated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062320 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3539
abstract: Cyclic boundaries are used in many branches of physics and mathematics, typically to assist the approximation of a large space. We show that when determining the performance of planar, fault-tolerant, topological quantum error correction, using cyclic boundaries leads to a significant underestimate of the logical error rate. We present cyclic and non-cyclic surface code simulations exhibiting this discrepancy, and analytic formulae precisely reproducing the observed behavior in the limit of low physical error. These asymptotic formulae are then used to prove that the underestimate is exponentially large in the code distance d at any fixed physical error rate p below the threshold error rate p_th.

id: 1209.3545
title: Efficient multipartite entanglement concentration of electron-spin state with charge detection
authors: Lan Zhou, Jiong Liu, Sheng-Yang Zhao
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3545
abstract: We present two entanglement concentration protocols (ECPs) for arbitrary three-electron W state based on their charges and spins. Different from other ECPs, in both two ECPs, with the help of the electronic polarization beam splitter (PBS) and charge detection, the less-entangled W state can be concentrated into a maximally entangled state only with some single charge qubits. The second ECP is more optimal than the first one, for by constructing the complete parity check gate, the second ECP can be used repeatedly to further concentrate the less-entangled state and obtain a higher success probability. Therefore, both the ECPs, especially the second one may be useful in current quantum information processing.

id: 1209.3547
title: Optimal Heisenberg-style bounds for the average performance of arbitrary phase estimates
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Michael J. W. Hall, Marcin Zwierz, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053813 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3547
abstract: The ultimate bound to the accuracy of phase estimates is often assumed to be given by the Heisenberg limit. Recent work seemed to indicate that this bound can be violated, yielding measurements with much higher accuracy than was previously expected. The Heisenberg limit can be restored as a rigorous bound to the accuracy provided one considers the accuracy averaged over the possible values of the unknown phase, as we have recently shown [Phys. Rev. A 85, 041802(R) (2012)]. Here we present an expanded proof of this result together with a number of additional results, including the proof of a previously conjectured stronger bound in the asymptotic limit. Other measures of the accuracy are examined, as well as other restrictions on the generator of the phase shifts. We provide expanded numerical results for the minimum error and asymptotic expansions. The significance of the results claiming violation of the Heisenberg limit is assessed, followed by a detailed discussion of the limitations of the Cramer-Rao bound.

id: 1209.3604
title: Analytical Solution of Cross Polarization Dynamics
authors: Peng Li, Qun Chen, Shanmin Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3604
abstract: Cross polarization (CP) dynamics, which was remained unknown for five decades, has been derived analytically in the zero- and double-quantum spaces. The initial polarization in the double-quantum space is a constant of motion under strong pulse condition ($|\omega_{1I}+\omega_{1S}|\gg |d(t)|$), while the Hamiltonian in the zero-quantum space reduces to $d(t)\sigma_{z}^{\Delta}$ under the Hartmann-Hahn match condition ($\omega_{1I}=\omega_{1S}$). The time dependent Hamilontian ($d(t)\sigma_{z}^{\Delta}$) in the zero-quantum space can be expressed by average Hamiltonians. Since$[d(t')\sigma_{z}^{\Delta}, d(t")\sigma_{z}^{\Delta}]=0$, only zero order average Hamiltonian needs to be calculated, leading to an analytical solution of CP dynamics.

id: 1209.3610
title: Collective interference of composite two-fermion bosons
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Peter Alexander Bouvrie, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 5+4 pages, 4+2 figures, substantially revised, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 260403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3610
abstract: The composite character of two-fermion bosons manifests itself in the interference of many composites as a deviation from the ideal bosonic behavior. A state of many composite bosons can be represented as a superposition of different numbers of perfect bosons and fermions, which allows us to provide the full Hong-Ou-Mandel-like counting statistics of interfering composites. Our theory quantitatively relates the deviation from the ideal bosonic interference pattern to the entanglement of the fermions within a single composite boson.

id: 1209.3632
title: A Course on Quantum Techniques for Stochastic Mechanics
authors: John C. Baez, Jacob Biamonte
comments: 235 pages, many figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3632
abstract: Some ideas from quantum theory are just beginning to percolate back to classical probability theory. For example, there is a widely used and successful theory of "chemical reaction networks", which describes the interactions of molecules in a stochastic rather than quantum way. Computer science and population biology use the same ideas under a different name: "stochastic Petri nets". But if we look at these theories from the perspective of quantum theory, they turn out to involve creation and annihilation operators, coherent states and other well-known ideas - but in a context where probabilities replace amplitudes. We explain this connection as part of a detailed analogy between quantum mechanics and stochastic mechanics. We use this analogy to present new proofs of two major results in the theory of chemical reaction networks: the deficiency zero theorem and the Anderson-Craciun-Kurtz theorem. We also study the overlap of quantum mechanics and stochastic mechanics, which involves Hamiltonians that can generate either unitary or stochastic time evolution. These Hamiltonians are called "Dirichlet forms", and they arise naturally from electrical circuits made only of resistors.

id: 1209.3645
title: Universal Non-adiabatic Holonomic Gates in Quantum Dots and Single-Molecule Magnets
authors: Vahid Azimi Mousolou, Carlo M. Canali, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: 11 pages, 1 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 013029 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3645
abstract: Geometric manipulation of a quantum system offers a method for fast, universal, and robust quantum information processing. Here, we propose a scheme for universal all-geometric quantum computation using non-adiabatic quantum holonomies. We propose three different realizations of the scheme based on an unconventional use of quantum dot and single-molecule magnet devices, which offer promising scalability and robust efficiency.

id: 1209.3652
title: Dynamics of the non-classical light from a single solid-state quantum emitter
authors: Edward B. Flagg, Sergey V. Polyakov, Tim Thomay, Glenn S. Solomon
comments: 5 pages. Accepted for publication in PRL, this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3652
abstract: We measure the dynamics of a non-classical optical field using two-time second-order correlations in conjunction with pulsed excitation. The technique quantifies single-photon purity and coherence during the excitation-decay cycle of an emitter, illustrated here using a quantum dot. We observe that for certain pump wavelengths, photons detected early in the cycle have reduced single-photon purity and coherence compared to those detected later. A model indicates that the single-photon purity dynamics are due to exciton recapture after initial emission and within the same pulse cycle.

id: 1209.3655
title: Quantum effect of inductance on geometric Cooper-pair transport
authors: J. Salmilehto, M. M?tt?nen
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 184512 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3655
abstract: We introduce a model for a flux-assisted Cooper-pair pump, the sluice, which is used to study geometric charge transport. Our model allows for a nonvanishing loop inductance going beyond the usual treatment with an exact phase bias. We derive the device Hamiltonian and current operators for different elements of the system and calculate the pumped charge carried by the ground state in the adiabatic limit. We show that extending the model beyond the exact phase bias, has a weak but potentially non-negligible effect on the charge transport. This effect is observed to depend on the external flux bias. The adiabatic energy level and eigenstate structures are studied and the unusual features are explained. Finally, we discuss the requirements of adiabaticity.

id: 1209.3683
title: Quantum Discord Dynamics for Two-Level Atom Initially in Thermal Equilibrium Interacting with n-Photon State
authors: Hari Prakash, Manoj K. Mishra
comments: 13 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3683
abstract: We investigate the quantum discord dynamics and inversion operator of a two-level atom initially in thermal equilibrium mixed state interacting with a cavity field prepared in a n-photon Fock state. We considered the Jaynes-Cummings model which is an exactly quantum mechanical model of interaction between two different quantum systems, an optical cavity in single mode n-photon Fock state and a two-level atom. The influence of interaction time and measurement basis used for calculating the conditional entropy is discussed on the evolution of the quantum discord and on its minimum. The evolution of mean value of inversion operator with interaction is also discussed. It is found that the quantum discord and inversion both shows oscillatory behaviour and also shows the phenomenon of beats with interaction time. For a given initial cavity photon Fock state the beat period of minimum quantum discord is one half of that for inversion operator. However, as the number of photons in cavity increases the frequency of oscillations of quantum discord and inversion increases.

id: 1209.3685
title: Riserratevi sotto coverta ...
authors: Bruno Cocciaro
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3685
abstract: The principle of relativity, as originally expressed by Galileo, points out that the area of competence of the principle itself is that of isolated systems as well as inertial reference frames. The principle does not claim that it is always possible to isolate any physical system, indeed it leaves it open to the possibility of the existence of phenomena concerning non isolable physical systems, e.g. phenomena regulated by some non draggable ether. After the Aspect experiment realist and local models have been proposed specifically based on the hypothesis that entangled systems are not isolated. It is hypothesized that the correlations which allow the violation of Bell's inequality are due to exchanges of superluminal signals between the various parts of the system and those signals do not generate causal paradoxes because their propagation is regulated by a non draggable ether. In the present paper the perfect compatibility of such models with the relativity theory is strongly advocated. A criterion is finally proposed to determine the causal ordering between events since, when there are superluminal signals, that ordering can no longer be associated to the time ordering induced by the standard synchronization.

id: 1209.3697
title: Relaxation timescales and decay of correlations in a long-range interacting quantum simulator
authors: Mauritz van den Worm, Brian C. Sawyer, John J. Bollinger, Michael Kastner
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures; v2: one section removed, appendices added; v3: upper bound corrected + minor corrections; v4: as published
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 083007 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3697
abstract: We study the time evolution of correlation functions in long-range interacting quantum Ising models. For a large class of initial conditions, exact analytic results are obtained in arbitrary lattice dimension, both for ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic coupling, and hence also in the presence of geometric frustration. In contrast to the nearest-neighbour case, we find that correlations decay like stretched or compressed exponentials in time. Provided the long-range character of the interactions is sufficiently strong, pronounced prethermalization plateaus are observed and relaxation timescales are widely separated. Specializing to a triangular lattice in two spatial dimensions, we propose to utilize these results for benchmarking of a recently developed ion-trap based quantum simulator.

id: 1209.3698
title: Relative helicity phases in planar Dirac scattering
authors: Stefano De Leo, Pietro Rotelli
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physical Review A 86, 032113-5 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3698
abstract: We study planar Dirac scattering for an electrostatic stratified barrier potential. The general expressions for transmitted and reflected waves are derived. Of particular interest is the information upon relative helicity phases. We also briefly discuss some possible applications.

id: 1209.3705
title: Biphoton ququarts as either pure or mixed states, features and reconstruction from coincidence measurements
authors: Mikhail Fedorov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3705
abstract: Features of biphoton polarization-frequency ququarts are considered. Their wave functions are defined as functions of both polarization and frequency variables of photons with the symmetry obligatory for two-boson states taken into account. In experiments, biphoton ququarts can display different features in dependence on whether experiments involve purely polarization or (alternatively) polarization-frequency measurements. If in experiments one uses only polarization measurements, the originally pure states of ququarts can be seen as mixed biphoton polarization states. Features of such states are described and discussed in details. Schemes of coincidence measurements for reconstruction of the ququart's parameters are suggested and described.

id: 1209.3706
title: Quantum Discord and Entanglement of Quasi-Werner States based on Entangled Coherent States
authors: Manoj K. Mishra, Ajay K. Maurya, Hari Prakash
comments: 16 Pages and 4 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3706
abstract: Present work is an attempt to compare quantum discord and quantum entanglement of Werner states formed with the four bipartite entangled coherent states (ECS) used recently for quantum teleportation of a qubit encoded in superposed coherent state. Out of these, two based on maximally ECS are exactly similar to the perfect Werner state, while the rest two, based on non-maximally ECS, which are called quasi-Werner states behave in somewhat different ways and their quantum discord and entanglement depends on the coherent amplitude and the measurement basis.

id: 1209.3745
title: Quantifying Contextuality
authors: A. Grudka, K. Horodecki, M. Horodecki, P. Horodecki, R. Horodecki, P. Joshi, W. K?obus, A. W¨®jcik
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures, more accessible format, minor changes in references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 120401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3745
abstract: Contextuality is central to both the foundations of quantum theory and to the novel information processing tasks. Although it was recognized before Bell's nonlocality, despite some recent proposals, it still faces a fundamental problem: how to quantify its presence? In this work, we provide a framework for quantifying contextuality. We conduct two complementary approaches: (i) bottom-up approach, where we introduce a communication game, which grasps the phenomenon of contextuality in a quantitative manner; (ii) top-down approach, where we just postulate two measures - relative entropy of contextuality and contextuality cost, analogous to existent measures of non-locality (a special case of contextuality). We then match the two approaches, by showing that the measure emerging from communication scenario turns out to be equal to the relative entropy of contextuality. We give analytical formulas for the proposed measures for some contextual systems. Furthermore we explore properties of these measures such as monotonicity or additivity.

id: 1209.3754
title: Extraordinary optical transmission of multimode quantum correlations via localized surface plasmons
authors: B. J. Lawrie, P. G. Evans, R. C. Pooser
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 156802 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3754
abstract: We demonstrate the coherent transduction of quantum noise reduction, or squeezed light, by Ag localized surface plasmons (LSPs). Squeezed light, generated through four-wave-mixing in Rb vapor, is coupled to a Ag nanohole array designed to exhibit LSP-mediated extraordinary-optical transmission (EOT) spectrally coincident with the squeezed light source at 795 nm. We demonstrate that quantum noise reduction as a function of transmission is found to match closely with linear attenuation models, thus demonstrating that the photon-LSP-photon transduction process is coherent near the LSP resonance.

id: 1209.3819
title: Extending and Characterizing Quantum Magic Games
authors: Alex Arkhipov
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3819
abstract: The Mermin-Peres magic square game is a cooperative two-player nonlocal game in which shared quantum entanglement allows the players to win with certainty, while players limited to classical operations cannot do so, a phenomenon dubbed "quantum pseudo-telepathy". The game has a referee separately ask each player to color a subset of a 3x3 grid. The referee checks that their colorings satisfy certain parity constraints that can't all be simultaneously realized. We define a generalization of these games to be played on an arbitrary arrangement of intersecting sets of elements. We characterize exactly which of these games exhibit quantum pseudo-telepathy, and give quantum winning strategies for those that do. In doing so, we show that it suffices for the players to share three Bell pairs of entanglement even for games on arbitrarily large arrangements. Moreover, it suffices for Alice and Bob to use measurements from the three-qubit Pauli group. The proof technique uses a novel connection of Mermin-style games to graph planarity.

id: 1209.3831
title: State-independent experimental tests of quantum contextuality in a three dimensional system
authors: Xiang Zhang, Mark Um, Junhua Zhang, Shuoming An, Ye Wang, Dong-ling Deng, Chao Shen, Luming Duan, Kihwan Kim
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 070401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3831
abstract: We experimentally observed state-independent violations of Kochen-Specker inequalities for the simplest indivisible quantum system manifesting quantum contextuality, a three-level (qutrit) system. We performed the experiment with a single trapped ^{171}Yb^{+} ion, by mapping three ground states of the ^{171}Yb^{+} ion to a qutrit system and carrying out quantum operatations by applying microwaves resonant to the qutrit transition frequencies. Our results are free from the detection loophole and cannot be explained by the non-contextual hidden variable models.

id: 1209.3851
title: Hybrid-system approach to fault-tolerant quantum communication
authors: Ashley M. Stephens, Jingjing Huang, Kae Nemoto, William J. Munro
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures; revised, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052333 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3851
abstract: We present a layered hybrid-system approach to quantum communication that involves the distribution of a topological cluster state throughout a quantum network. Photon loss and other errors are suppressed by optical multiplexing and entanglement purification. The scheme is scalable to large distances, achieving an end-to-end rate of 1 kHz with around 50 qubits per node. We suggest a potentially suitable implementation of an individual node composed of erbium spins (single atom or ensemble) coupled via flux qubits to a microwave resonator, allowing for deterministic local gates, stable quantum memories, and emission of photons in the telecom regime.

id: 1209.3887
title: Principle of relativity for quantum theory
authors: Marco Zaopo
comments: Comments and critics are always welcome. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:astro-ph/0107571 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3887
abstract: In non relativistic physics it is assumed that both chronological ordering and causal ordering of events (telling whether there exists a causal relationship between two events or not) are absolute, observer independent properties. In relativistic physics on the other hand chronological ordering depends on the observer who assigns space-time coordinates to physical events and only causal ordering is regarded as an observer independent property. In this paper it is shown that quantum theory can be considered as a physical theory in which causal (as well as chronological) ordering of probabilistic events happening in experiments may be regarded as an observer dependent property.

id: 1209.3898
title: Entanglement, fractional magnetization and long-range interactions
authors: Andrea Cadarso, Mikel Sanz, Michael M. Wolf, J. Ignacio Cirac, David Perez-Garcia
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 035114 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3898
abstract: Based on the theory of Matrix Product States, we give precise statements and complete analytical proofs of the following claim: a large fractionalization in the magnetization or the need of long-range interactions imply large entanglement in the state of a quantum spin chain.

id: 1209.3917
title: The Topology of Quantum Algorithms
authors: Jamie Vicary
comments: 33 pages. Updated to match the final published article
journal: (LICS 2013) Proceedings of 28th Annual ACM/IEEE Symposium on Logic in Computer Science, pages 93-102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3917
abstract: We use a categorical topological semantics to examine the Deutsch-Jozsa, hidden subgroup and single-shot Grover algorithms. This reveals important structures hidden by conventional algebraic presentations, and allows novel proofs of correctness via local topological operations, giving for the first time a satisfying high-level explanation for why these procedures work. We also investigate generalizations of these algorithms, providing improved analyses of those already in the literature, and a new generalization of the single-shot Grover algorithm.

id: 1209.3935
title: Photon blockade induced by atoms with Rydberg coupling
authors: Jin-Feng Huang, Jie-Qiao Liao, C. P. Sun
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023822 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3935
abstract: We study the photon blockade of two-photon scattering in a one-dimensional waveguide, which contains two atoms coupled via the Rydberg interaction. We obtain the analytic scattering solution of photonic wave packets with the Laplace transform method. We examine the photon correlation by addressing the two-photon relative wave function and the second-order correlation function in the single- and two-photon resonance cases. It is found that, under the single-photon resonance condition, photon bunching and antibunching can be observed in the two-photon transmission and reflection, respectively. In particular, the bunching and antibunching effects become stronger with the increasing of the Rydberg coupling strength. In addition, we find a phenomenon of bunching-antibunching transition caused by the two-photon resonance.

id: 1209.4028
title: Finite Local Models for the GHZ Experiment
authors: C. Garola, M. Persano, J. Pykacz, S. Sozzo
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures, LateX
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics (2014) 53: 622-644
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4028
abstract: Some years ago Szab\'o and Fine proposed a {\it local} hidden variable theory for the GHZ experiment based on the assumption that "the detection efficiency is not (only) the effect of random errors in the detector equipment, but it is a more fundamental phenomenon, the manifestation of a predetermined hidden property of the particles". Szab\'o and Fine, however, did not provide a general approach to quantum phenomena which avoids nonlocality. Such an approach, based on the same assumption, was instead recently supplied by some of us and called {\it extended semantic realism} ({\it ESR}) model. We show here that one can extract from the ESR model several local finite models referring to the specific physical situation considered in the GHZ experiment, and that these models can be converted into the toy models for the GHZ experiment worked out by Szab\'o and Fine.

id: 1209.4031
title: Long range failure-tolerant entanglement distribution
authors: Ying Li, Sean D. Barrett, Thomas M. Stace, Simon C. Benjamin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4031
abstract: We introduce a protocol to distribute entanglement between remote parties. Our protocol is based on a chain of repeater stations, and exploits topological encoding to tolerate very high levels of defects and errors. The repeater stations may employ probabilistic entanglement operations which usually fail; ours is the first protocol to explicitly allow for technologies of this kind. Given an error rate between stations in excess of 10%, arbitrarily long range high fidelity entanglement distribution is possible even if the heralded failure rate within the stations is as high as 99%, providing that unheralded errors are low (order 0.01%).

id: 1209.4036
title: Novel States of Classical Light and Noncontextuality
authors: Partha Ghose, Anirban Mukherjee
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure; substantial modifications made without changing the basic claims and content; to be published in Advanced Science, Engineering and Medicine (ASEM); the figure replaced, no other change
journal: Advanced Science, Engineering& Medicinevol. 6, pp 246-251, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4036
abstract: A new criterion, based on noncontextuality, is derived to discriminate between separable and nonseparable states in classical wave optics where no discreteness is involved. An experiment is proposed to test the violation of noncontextuality by a nonseparable state. Such states have only recently begun to be explored. The significance of their nonseparability or entanglement as well as their similarities with and differences from entangled quantum states are discussed.

id: 1209.4112
title: Adiabatic quantum computation with Rydberg-dressed atoms
authors: Tyler Keating, Krittika Goyal, Yuan-Yu Jau, Grant W. Biedermann, Andrew Landahl, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052314 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4112
abstract: We study an architecture for implementing adiabatic quantum computation with trapped neutral atoms. Ground state atoms are dressed by laser fields in a manner conditional on the Rydberg blockade mechanism, thereby providing the requisite entangling interactions. As a benchmark we study the performance of a Quadratic Unconstrained Binary Optimization (QUBO) problem whose solution is found in the ground state spin configuration of an Ising-like model. We model a realistic architecture, including details of the atomic implementation, with qubits encoded into the clock states of 133Cs, effective B-fields implemented through stimulated Raman transitions, and atom-atom coupling achieved by excitation to the 100P3/2 Rydberg level. Including the fundamental effects of photon scattering, we find the fidelity of two-qubit implementation to be on the order of 0.99, with higher fidelities possible with improved laser sources.

id: 1209.4126
title: Mutually unbiased triplets from non-affine families of complex Hadamard matrices in dimension six
authors: D. Goyeneche
comments: Improved version, published in JPA. 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 105301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4126
abstract: We study the problem of constructing mutually unbiased bases in dimension six. This approach is based on an efficient numerical method designed to find solutions to the quantum state reconstruction problem in finite dimensions. Our technique suggests the existence of previously unknown symmetries in Karlsson's non-affine family $K_6^{(2)}$ which we confirm analytically. Also, we obtain strong evidence that no more than three mutually unbiased bases can be constructed from pairs which contain members of some non-affine families of complex Hadamard matrices.

id: 1209.4130
title: Object Identification Using Correlated Orbital Angular Momentum States
authors: Nestor Uribe-Patarroyo, Andrew Fraine, David S. Simon, Olga Minaeva, Alexander V. Sergienko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4130
abstract: Using spontaneous parametric down conversion as a source of entangled photon pairs, correlations are measured between the orbital angular momentum (OAM) in a target beam (which contains an unknown object) and that in an empty reference beam. Unlike previous studies, the effects of the object on off-diagonal elements of the OAM correlation matrix are examined. Due to the presence of the object, terms appear in which the signal and idler OAM do not add up to that of the pump. Using these off-diagonal correlations, the potential for high-efficiency object identification by means of correlated OAM states is experimentally demonstrated for the first time. The higher-dimensional OAM Hilbert space enhances the information capacity of this approach, while the presence of the off-diagonal correlations allows for recognition of specific spatial signatures present in the object. In particular, this allows the detection of discrete rotational symmetries and the efficient evaluation of multiple azimuthal Fourier coefficients using fewer resources than in conventional pixel-by-pixel imaging. This represents a demonstration of sparse sensing using OAM states, as well as being the first correlated OAM experiment to measure properties of a real, stand-alone object, a necessary first step toward correlated OAM-based remote sensing.

id: 1209.4139
title: Optimising the Solovay-Kitaev algorithm
authors: Pham Tien Trung, Rodney Van Meter, Clare Horsman
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4139
abstract: The Solovay-Kitaev algorithm is the standard method used for approximating arbitrary single-qubit gates for fault-tolerant quantum computation. In this paper we introduce a technique called "search space expansion", which modifies the initial stage of the Solovay-Kitaev algorithm, increasing the length of the possible approximating sequences but without requiring an exhaustive search over all possible sequences. We show that our technique, combined with a GNAT geometric tree search outputs gate sequences that are almost an order of magnitude smaller for the same level of accuracy. This therefore significantly reduces the error correction requirements for quantum algorithms on encoded fault-tolerant hardware.

id: 1209.4149
title: Entropy evolution law in a laser process
authors: Jun-hua Chen, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 
journal: Ann. Phys. 334 (2013) 272-279
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4149
abstract: For the first time, we obtain the entropy variation law in a laser process after finding the Kraus operator of the master equation describing the laser process with the use of the entangled state representation. The behavior of entropy is determined by the competition of the gain and damping in the laser process. The photon number evolution formula is also obtained.

id: 1209.4166
title: Quantum correlations in a system of nuclear s=1/2 spins in a strong magnetic field
authors: E. B. Fel'dman, E. I. Kuznetsova, M. A. Yurishchev
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. V 45, 475304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4166
abstract: Entanglement and quantum discord for a pair of nuclear spins $s=1/2$ in a nanopore filled with a gas of spin-carrying molecules (atoms) are studied. The correlation functions describing dynamics of dipolar coupled spins in a nanopore are found. The dependence of spin-pair entanglement on the temperature and the number of spins is obtained from the reduced density matrix, which is centrosymmetric (CS). An analytic expression for the concurrence is obtained for an arbitrary CS density matrix. It is shown that the quantum discord as a measure of quantum correlations attains a significant value at low temperatures. It is shown also that the discord in the considered model has "flickering" character and disappears periodically in the course of the time evolution of the system. The geometric discord is studied for arbitrary $4\times 4$ CS density matrices.

id: 1209.4167
title: Dynamical evolution of an inverted spin ensemble in a cavity: Inhomogeneous broadening as a stabilizing mechanism
authors: Brian Julsgaard, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4167
abstract: We study the evolution of an inverted spin ensemble coupled to a cavity. The inversion itself presents an inherent instability of the system; however, the inhomogeneous broadening of spin-resonance frequencies presents a stabilizing mechanism, and a stability criterion is derived. The detailed behavior of mean values and variances of the spin components and of the cavity field is accounted for under both stable and unstable conditions.

id: 1209.4191
title: Entanglement Between Photons that have Never Coexisted
authors: E. Megidish, A. Halevy, T. Shacham, T. Dvir, L. Dovrat, H. S. Eisenberg
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 210403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4191
abstract: The role of the timing and order of quantum measurements is not just a fundamental question of quantum mechanics, but also a puzzling one. Any part of a quantum system that has finished evolving, can be measured immediately or saved for later, without affecting the final results, regardless of the continued evolution of the rest of the system. In addition, the non-locality of quantum mechanics, as manifested by entanglement, does not apply only to particles with spatial separation, but also with temporal separation. Here we demonstrate these principles by generating and fully characterizing an entangled pair of photons that never coexisted. Using entanglement swapping between two temporally separated photon pairs we entangle one photon from the first pair with another photon from the second pair. The first photon was detected even before the other was created. The observed quantum correlations manifest the non-locality of quantum mechanics in spacetime.

id: 1209.4197
title: Tomographic characterisation of correlations in a photonic tripartite state
authors: A. Chiuri, L. Mazzola, M. Paternostro, P. Mataloni
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 085006 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4197
abstract: Starting from a four-partite photonic hyper-entangled Dicke resource, we report the full tomographic characterization of three-, two-, and one-qubit states obtained by projecting out part of the computational register. The reduced states thus obtained correspond to fidelities with the expected states larger than 87%, therefore certifying the faithfulness of the entanglement-sharing structure within the original four-qubit resource. The high quality of the reduced three-qubit state allows for the experimental verification of the Koashi-Winter relation for the monogamy of correlations within a tripartite state. We show that, by exploiting the symmetries of the three-qubit state obtained upon projection over the four-qubit Dicke resource, such relation can be experimentally fully characterized using only 5 measurement settings. We highlight the limitations of such approach and sketch an experimentally-oriented way to overcome them.

id: 1209.4201
title: Effects of classical environmental noise on entanglement and quantum discord
authors: Claudia Benedetti, Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. Vol. 10, No 8 (2012) 1241005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4201
abstract: We address the effect of classical noise on the dynamics of quantum correlations, entanglement and quantum discord, of two non-interacting qubits initially prepared in a Bell state. The effect of noise is modeled by randomizing the single-qubit transition amplitudes. We address both static and dynamic environmental noise corresponding to interaction with separate common baths in either Markovian and non-Markovian regimes. In the Markov regime, a monotone decay of the quantum correlations is found, whereas for non-Markovian noise sudden death and revival phenomena may occur, depending on the characteristics of the noise. Entanglement and quantum discord show the same qualitative behavior for all kind of noises considered. On the other hand, we find that separate and common environments may play opposite roles in preserving quantum correlations, depending on the noise regime considered.

id: 1209.4222
title: Distinguishability of Quantum States by Positive Operator-Valued Measures with Positive Partial Transpose
authors: Nengkun Yu, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: Revtex4, 10 pages, no figures. Presented at AQIS12 as a long talk. Comments are welcome
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol.60, no.4, pp. 2069-2079, Apr.(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4222
abstract: We study the distinguishability of bipartite quantum states by Positive Operator-Valued Measures with positive partial transpose (PPT POVMs). The contributions of this paper include: (1). We give a negative answer to an open problem of [M. Horodecki $et. al$, Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 047902(2003)] showing a limitation of their method for detecting nondistinguishability. (2). We show that a maximally entangled state and its orthogonal complement, no matter how many copies are supplied, can not be distinguished by PPT POVMs, even unambiguously. This result is much stronger than the previous known ones \cite{DUAN06,BAN11}. (3). We study the entanglement cost of distinguishing quantum states. It is proved that $\sqrt{2/3}\ket{00}+\sqrt{1/3}\ket{11}$ is sufficient and necessary for distinguishing three Bell states by PPT POVMs. An upper bound of entanglement cost of distinguishing a $d\otimes d$ pure state and its orthogonal complement is obtained for separable operations. Based on this bound, we are able to construct two orthogonal quantum states which cannot be distinguished unambiguously by separable POVMs, but finite copies would make them perfectly distinguishable by LOCC. We further observe that a two-qubit maximally entangled state is always enough for distinguishing a $d\otimes d$ pure state and its orthogonal complement by PPT POVMs, no matter the value of $d$. In sharp contrast, an entangled state with Schmidt number at least $d$ is always needed for distinguishing such two states by separable POVMs. As an application, we show that the entanglement cost of distinguishing a $d\otimes d$ maximally entangled state and its orthogonal complement must be a maximally entangled state for $d=2$,which implies that teleportation is optimal; and in general, it could be chosen as $\mathcal{O}(\frac{\log d}{d})$.

id: 1209.4247
title: Concatenated composite pulses compensating simultaneous systematic errors
authors: Masamitsu Bando, Tsubasa Ichikawa, Yasushi Kondo, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 82, 014004 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4247
abstract: In NMR experiments and quantum computation, many pulse (quantum gate) sequences called the composite pulses, were developed to suppress one of two dominant errors; a pulse length error and an off-resonance error. We describe, in this paper, a general prescription to design a single-qubit concatenated composite pulse (CCCP) that is robust against two types of errors simultaneously. To this end, we introduce a new property, which is satisfied by some composite pulses and is sufficient to obtain a CCCP. Then we introduce a general method to design CCCPs with shorter execution time and less number of pulses.

id: 1209.4281
title: Dealing with unknown quantum operations
authors: Filippo M. Miatto
comments: 4 pages, xy-pic diagrams
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4281
abstract: In the context of quantum communications between two parties (here Alice and Bob), Bob's lack of knowledge about the communications channel can affect the purity of the states that he receives. The operation of applying an unknown unitary transformation to a state, thus reducing its purity, is called "twirling". As twirling affects the states that Bob receives, it also affects his perception of the operations that Alice applies to her states. In this work we find that not every operation is representable after a twirling, we show the minimal requirement for this to be possible, and we identify the correct form of the "twirled" operations.

id: 1209.4285
title: Tomographic probability representation in the problem of transitions between the Landau levels
authors: E. D. Zhebrak
comments: submitted to Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4285
abstract: The problem of moving of a charged particle in electromagnetic ?field is considered in terms of tomographic probability representation. The coherent and Fock states of a charge moving in varying homogeneous magnetic fi?eld are studied in the tomographic probability representation of quantum mechanics. The states are expressed in terms of quantum tomograms. The Fock state tomograms are given in the form of probability distributions described by multivariable Hermite polynomials with time-dependent arguments. The obtained results are generalized in the present work and are applied to determining the transition probabilities between Landau levels. Transition probabilities are calculated using the symplectic tomograms instead of the wave functions. The same method is used in obtaining the transition probabilities between the Landau levels possessed by a charge moving in varying electromagnetic field.

id: 1209.4304
title: Two-step orthogonal-state-based protocol of quantum secure direct communication with the help of order-rearrangement technique
authors: Preeti Yadav, R. Srikanth, Anirban Pathak
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, LaTex, Accepted for publication in Quantum Information Processing (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4304
abstract: The Goldenberg-Vaidman (GV) protocol for quantum key distribution (QKD) uses orthogonal encoding states of a particle. Its security arises because operations accessible to Eve are insufficient to distinguish the two states encoding the secret bit. We propose a two-particle cryptographic protocol for quantum secure direct communication, wherein orthogonal states encode the secret, and security arises from restricting Eve from accessing any two-particle operations. However, there is a non-trivial difference between the two cases. While the encoding states are perfectly indistinguishable in GV, they are partially distinguishable in the bi-partite case, leading to a qualitatively different kind of information-vs-disturbance trade-off and also options for Eve in the two cases.

id: 1209.4327
title: Pauli Automorphisms, Clifford Groups, and Local Clifford Groups for Higher-Dimensional Systems
authors: Jacob Farinholt
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to the discovery of several crucial errors upon review. A new manuscript with more general results is forthcoming
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4327
abstract: NOTE: PAPER WITHDRAWN (See Comments) The Clifford and Local Clifford groups for $d > 2$ dimensional systems have been topics of recent interest due to their applications in graph states, quantum codes, and possible applications in fast quantum algorithms. This paper studies these groups more abstractly, by first characterizing the Pauli Automorphism and Local Automorphism groups, and then using these results to determine characteristics of the Clifford and Local Clifford groups. Not only does such an approach reveal new information about the Clifford and Local Clifford groups, but it also shows how many previously derived results arise naturally as simple corollaries. Lastly, we give a systematic method of building an arbitrary Local Clifford operator from a small number of previously known gates, as well as a method to physically implement such an operator.

id: 1209.4379
title: Defining Quantum Control Flow
authors: Mingsheng Ying, Nengkun Yu, Yuan Feng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Programming Languages (cs.PL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4379
abstract: A remarkable difference between quantum and classical programs is that the control flow of the former can be either classical or quantum. One of the key issues in the theory of quantum programming languages is defining and understanding quantum control flow. A functional language with quantum control flow was defined by Altenkirch and Grattage [\textit{Proc. LICS'05}, pp. 249-258]. This paper extends their work, and we introduce a general quantum control structure by defining three new quantum program constructs, namely quantum guarded command, quantum choice and quantum recursion. We clarify the relation between quantum choices and probabilistic choices. An interesting difference between quantum recursions with classical control flows and with quantum control flows is revealed.

id: 1209.4395
title: Unfrustration Condition and Degeneracy of Qudits on Trees
authors: Matthew Coudron, Ramis Movassagh
comments: 13 page, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4395
abstract: We generalize the previous results of [1] by proving unfrustration condition and degeneracy of the ground states of qudits (d-dimensional spins) on a k-child tree with generic local interactions. We find that the dimension of the ground space grows doubly exponentially in the region where rk<=(d^2)/4 for k>1. Further, we extend the results in [1] by proving that there are no zero energy ground states when r>(d^2)/4 for k=1 implying that the effective Hamiltonian is invertible.

id: 1209.4401
title: Canonical quantization of macroscopic electrodynamics in a linear, inhomogeneous magneto-electric medium
authors: A. C. Judge, M. J. Steel, J. E. Sipe, C. M. de Sterke
comments: Submitted to Physical Review A 24/07/2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4401
abstract: We present a canonical quantization of macroscopic electrodynamics. The results apply to inhomogeneous media with a broad class of linear magneto-electric responses which are consistent with the Kramers-Kronig and Onsager relations. Through its ability to accommodate strong dispersion and loss, our theory provides a rigorous foundation for the study of quantum optical processes in structures incorporating metamaterials, provided these may be modeled as magneto-electric media. Previous canonical treatments of dielectric and magneto-dielectric media have expressed the electromagnetic field operators in either a Green function or mode expansion representation. Here we present our results in the mode expansion picture with a view to applications in guided wave and cavity quantum optics.

id: 1209.4440
title: Relativistic spin operator and Lorentz transformation of spin state of a massive Dirac particle
authors: Taeseung Choi
comments: published version
journal: JKPS, Vol. 62, 1085(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4440
abstract: We have shown the covariant relativistic spin operator is equivalent to the spin operator commuting with the free Dirac Hamiltonian. This implies that the covariant relativistic spin operator is a good quantum observable. The covariant relativistic spin operator has the pure quantum contribution which does not exist in the classical covariant spin operator. Based on this equivalence reduced spin states can be claerly defined. We have shown the change in the entropy of a reduced spin density matrix sweeps through the whole range according to the relative motion of an observer.

id: 1209.4488
title: Creation of arbitrary Dicke and NOON states of trapped-ion qubits by global addressing with composite pulses
authors: Svetoslav S. Ivanov, Nikolay V. Vitanov, Natalia V. Korolkova
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4488
abstract: We propose a fast and efficient technique to create classes of highly entangled states of trapped ions, such as arbitrary Dicke states and superpositions of them, e.g. NOON states. The ions are initialized in the phonon ground state and are addressed globally with a composite pulse that is resonant with the first motional sideband. The technique operates on comparatively short time scales, as resonant interactions allow one to use the minimum laser pulse area. The number of single pulses from the composite sequence is equal to the number of ions, thus the implementation complexity grows only linearly with the size of the system. The approach does not require individual addressing of the ions in the trap and can be applied both inside and outside the Lamb-Dicke regime.

id: 1209.4489
title: Time-efficient implementation of quantum search with qudits
authors: S. S. Ivanov, H. S. Tonchev, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062321 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4489
abstract: We propose a simpler and more efficient scheme for the implementation of the multi-valued Grover's quantum search. The multi-valued search generalizes the original Grover's search by replacing qubits with qudits --- quantum systems of $d$ discrete states. The qudit database is exponentially larger than the qubit database and thus it requires fewer particles to control. The Hadamard gate, which is the key elementary gate in the qubit implementation of Grover's search, is replaced by a $d$-dimensional (complex-valued) unitary matrix $F$, the only condition for which is to have a column of equal moduli elements irrespective of their phases; it can be realized through any physical interaction, which achieves an equal-weight superposition state. An example of such a transformation is the $d$-dimensional discrete Fourier transform, used in earlier proposals; however, its construction is much more costly than that of the far simpler matrix $F$. We present examples of how such a transform $F$ can be constructed in realistic qudit systems in a \emph{single} interaction step.

id: 1209.4538
title: Multiqubit Quantum Teleportation
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Zong-Guo Li, Xianqing Li-Jost, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 405303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4538
abstract: We provide a class of six-qubit states for three-qubit perfect teleportation. These states include the six-qubit cluster states as a special class. We generalize this class of six-qubit states to 2n-qubit pure states for n-qubit teleportation, n >=1. These states can be also used for 2n bit classical information transmission in dense coding.

id: 1209.4550
title: Decoherence effects in the dynamics of interacting ultracold bosons in disordered lattices
authors: Beno?t Vermersch, Jean-Claude Garreau
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4550
abstract: We study the interplay between disorder, interactions and decoherence induced by spontaneous emission process. Interactions are included in the Anderson model via a mean-field approximation, and a simple model for spontaneous emission is introduced. Numerical simulations allow us to study the effects of decoherence on different dynamical regimes. Physical pictures for the mechanisms at play are discussed and provide simple interpretations. Finally, we discuss the validity of scaling laws on the initial state width.

id: 1209.4686
title: Experimental observation of double-peak structure of coincidence spectra in ultra-fast Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion
authors: Dmitry A. Kalashnikov, Mikhail V. Fedorov, Leonid A. Krivitsky
comments: accepted for Phys Rev A
journal: Physical Review A 87, 013803 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4686
abstract: The requirement on the symmetry of the biphoton wave function results in a double peak structure of the coincidence spectra of Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion (SPDC) [1]. In this work we report the experimental observation of this effect by careful tailoring parameters of the SPDC crystal, the ultra-fast pump laser, and the measurement setup. The results are shown to be relevant to quantum state engineering of ultra-fast polarization-, or frequency-entangled mixed states.

id: 1209.4696
title: Insider-proof encryption with applications for quantum key distribution
authors: Matthew McKague, Lana Sheridan
comments: 20 pages, version 2: new presentation introducing the insider-proof channel as a cryptographic element
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4696
abstract: It has been pointed out that current protocols for device independent quantum key distribution can leak key to the adversary when devices are used repeatedly and that this issue has not been addressed. We introduce the notion of an insider-proof channel. This allows us to propose a means by which devices with memories could be reused from one run of a device independent quantum key distribution protocol to the next while bounding the leakage to Eve, under the assumption that one run of the protocol could be completed securely using devices with memories.

id: 1209.4709
title: Collision induced coherence in plasma and Branching Ratio in multilevel system
authors: Dong Sun, Victor V. Kozlov, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4709
abstract: This work has been stimulated by the quenching of spontaneous emission in an optically thin high-density plasma reported by Suckewer and coworkers [Phys.Rev.Lett. 60,1122(1988)]. Our work is based on the collision-induced coherence of two decay channels along two optical transitions.The quantum interference of pumping processes creates the dark state and the more atoms are pumped in this collision-induced dark state the stronger the suppression of the spontaneous emission. The efficiency of this suppression is quantified by putting it in comparison with the spontaneous emission on the ultraviolet transition which proceeds in a regular fashion. The branching ratio of these two(visible and ultraviolet) transitions is introduced as the effective measure of the degree of the suppression of the spontaneous emission on the visible transition. Our preliminary calculations show that a significant decrease of the branching ratio with increase of electron densities is reproduced in the theory. More experiments and more elaborated theories are needed to conclude about the role of quantum coherence and interference in such manifestly incoherent media as plasmas.

id: 1209.4716
title: Quantum-enhanced optical phase tracking
authors: Hidehiro Yonezawa, Daisuke Nakane, Trevor A. Wheatley, Kohjiro Iwasawa, Shuntaro Takeda, Hajime Arao, Kentaro Ohki, Koji Tsumura, Dominic W. Berry, Timothy C. Ralph, Howard M. Wiseman, Elanor H. Huntington, Akira Furusawa
comments: 33 pages, 12 fugres
journal: Science 337, 1514-1517 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4716
abstract: Tracking a randomly varying optical phase is a key task in metrology, with applications in optical communication. The best precision for optical phase tracking has till now been limited by the quantum vacuum fluctuations of coherent light. Here we surpass this coherent-state limit by using a continuous-wave beam in a phase-squeezed quantum state. Unlike in previous squeezing-enhanced metrology, restricted to phases with very small variation, the best tracking precision (for a fixed light intensity) is achieved for a finite degree of squeezing, due to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. By optimizing the squeezing we track the phase with a mean square error 15 \pm 4 % below the coherent-state limit.

id: 1209.4723
title: Two-Level Laser Dynamics with a Noiseless Vacuum Reservoir
authors: Fesseha Kassahun
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure; this is a revised version of a paper published in Opt. Commun. (284, 1357, 2011). arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1105.1438
journal: Opt. Commun. 284, 1357 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4723
abstract: We analyze the quantum properties of the light generated by a two-level laser in which the two-level atoms available in a closed cavity are pumped to the upper level by means of electron bombardment. We consider the case in which the two-level laser is coupled to a vacuum reservoir via a single-port mirror and seek to carry out our analysis by putting the noise operators associated with the vacuum reservoir in normal order. It is found that the two-level laser generates coherent light when operating well above threshold and chaotic light when operating at threshold. Moreover, we have established that a large part of the total mean photon number is confined in a relatively small frequency interval.

id: 1209.4727
title: Casimir-Polder Forces between Chiral Objects
authors: David T. Butcher, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4727
abstract: The chiral component of the Casimir-Polder potential is derived within the framework of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics. It is shown to exist only if the particle and the medium are both chiral. Furthermore, the chiral component of the Casimir-Polder potential can be attractive or repulsive, depending on the chirality of the molecule and the medium. The theory is applied to a cavity geometry in the non-retarded limit with the intention of enantiomer separation. For a ground state molecule the chiral component is dominated by the electric component and thus no explicit separation will happen. If the molecule is initially in an excited state the electric component of the Casimir-Polder force can be suppressed by an appropriate choice of material and the chiral component can select the molecule based on its chirality, allowing enantiomeric separation to occur.

id: 1209.4732
title: Complete deterministic multi-electron Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state analyzer for quantum communication
authors: Hai-Rui Wei, Bao-Cang Ren, Mei Zhang, Tao Li, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 6 page, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4732
abstract: We present a scheme for the multi-electron Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state analyzer, resorting to an interface between the polarization of a probe photon and the spin of an electron in a quantum dot embedded in a microcavity. All the multi-spin GHZ states can be completely discriminated by using single-photon detectors and linear optical elements. Our scheme has some features. First, it is a complete GHZ-state analyzer for multi-electron spin systems. Second, the initial entangled states remain after being identified and they can be used for a successive task. Third, the electron qubits are static and the photons play a role of a medium for information transfer, which has a good application in quantum repeater in which the electron qubits are used to store the information and the photon qubits are used to transfer the information between others.

id: 1209.4781
title: Almost all decision trees do not allow significant quantum speed-up
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 6 pages
journal: Chicago Journal of Theoretical Computer Science 2012, article 08, pp. 1-7
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4781
abstract: We show that, for any d, all but a doubly exponentially small fraction of decision trees of depth at most d require Omega(d) quantum queries to be computed with bounded error. In other words, most efficient classical algorithms in the query complexity model do not admit a significant quantum speed-up. The proof is based on showing that, with high probability, the average sensitivity of a random decision tree is high.

id: 1209.4810
title: Covariance matrices under Bell-like detections
authors: Gaetana Spedalieri, Carlo Ottaviani, Stefano Pirandola
comments: Results are extended to detectors with non-unit quantum efficiency. REVTeX. 9 pages. 4 figures
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 20, 1350011 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4810
abstract: We derive a simple formula for the transformation of an arbitrary covariance matrix of (n+2) bosonic modes under general Bell-like detections, where the last two modes are combined in an arbitrary beam splitter (i.e., with arbitrary transmissivity) and then homodyned. In particular, we consider the realistic condition of non-unit quantum efficiency for the homodyne detectors. This formula can easily be specialized to describe the standard Bell measurement and the heterodyne detection, which are exploited in many contexts, including protocols of quantum teleportation, entanglement swapping and quantum cryptography. In its general form, our formula can be adopted to study quantum information protocols in the presence of experimental imperfections and asymmetric setups, e.g., deriving from the use of unbalanced beam splitters.

id: 1209.4840
title: A photonic transistor device based on photons and phonons in a cavity electromechanical system
authors: Cheng Jiang, Ka-Di Zhu
comments: submitted to J Phys D
journal: Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics 46, 045303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4840
abstract: We present a scheme for photonic transistors based on photons and phonons in a cavity electromechanical system, which is consisted of a superconducting microwave cavity coupled to a nanomechanical resonator. Control of the propagation of photons is achieved through the interaction of microwave field (photons) and nanomechanical vibrations (phonons). By calculating the transmission spectrum of the signal field, we show that the signal field can be efficiently attenuated or amplified, depending on the power of a second `gating'(pump) field. This scheme may be a promising candidate for single-photon transistors and pave the way for numerous applications in telecommunication and quantum information technologies.

id: 1209.4844
title: Parametric representation of open quantum systems and crossover from quantum to classical environment
authors: Dario Calvani, Alessandro Cuccoli, Nikitas Gidopoulos, Paola Verrucchi
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: PNAS, vol. 110, pp. 6748-6753 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4844
abstract: We propose an approach to the study of open quantum systems based on a parametric representation of the principal system. The representation is obtained introducing generalized coherent states for the environment, and is such that the evolution from a fully quantum environment to a classical one can be inherently followed. The method is applied to the specific case where the principal system is a central qubit and the environment is a surrounding ring of interacting spins, with the overall Hamiltonian being that of the $s=1/2$ Heisenberg star with frustration. In this case the quantum character of the environment, embodied by the total spin $S$ of the ring, can be physically varied by acting on the ratio between the couplings entering the Hamiltonian, and formally followed by increasing $S$. We find that when the star is in any of its eigenstates, the qubit behaves as if it were under the effect of an external magnetic field, whose direction in real space is set by the variables defining the environmental coherent states, and is hence broadened according to their quantum probability distribution. When the quantum character of the environment is reduced, such distribution becomes narrower, finally collapsing into a Dirac-$\delta$ as $S\to\infty$. The entanglement between the central qubit and its environment remains well defined even in this limit, where it comes across as the binary entropy of the $2\pi$-normalized Berry phase characterizing the dynamics of a qubit in an adiabatically precessing magnetic field.

id: 1209.4948
title: Processing quantum information with relativistic motion of atoms
authors: Eduardo Martin-Martinez, David Aasen, Achim Kempf
comments: Revtex4.1, 3 Figures. v2 Added journal reference and updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 160501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4948
abstract: We show that particle detectors, such as 2-level atoms, in non-inertial motion (or in gravitational fields) could be used to build quantum gates for the processing of quantum information. Concretely, we show that through suitably chosen non-inertial trajectories of the detectors the interaction Hamiltonian's time dependence can be modulated to yield arbitrary rotations in the Bloch sphere due to relativistic quantum effects.

id: 1209.4953
title: Superdiffusivity of quantum walks: A Feynman sum-over-paths description
authors: F. M. Andrade, M. G. E. da Luz
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Accepted in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev A 86, 042309 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4953
abstract: Quantum walks constitute important tools in different applications, especially in quantum algorithms. To a great extent their usefulness is due to unusual diffusive features, allowing much faster spreading than their classical counterparts. Such behavior, although frequently credited to intrinsic quantum interference, usually is not completely characterized. Using a recently developed Green's function approach [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 84}, 042343 (2011)], here it is described -- in a rather general way -- the problem dynamics in terms of a true sum over paths history a la Feynman. It allows one to explicit identify interference effects and also to explain the emergence of superdiffusivity. The present analysis has the potential to help in designing quantum walks with distinct transport properties.

id: 1209.4989
title: Optimal state pairs for non-Markovian quantum dynamics
authors: Steffen Wissmann, Antti Karlsson, Elsi-Mari Laine, Jyrki Piilo, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062108 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4989
abstract: We study a recently proposed measure for the quantification of quantum non-Markovianity in the dynamics of open systems which is based on the exchange of information between the open system and its environment. This measure relates the degree of memory effects to certain optimal initial state pairs featuring a maximal flow of information from the environment back to the open system. We rigorously prove that the states of these optimal pairs must lie on the boundary of the space of physical states and that they must be orthogonal. This implies that quantum memory effects are maximal for states which are initially distinguishable with certainty, having a maximal information content. Moreover, we construct an explicit example which demonstrates that optimal quantum states need not be pure states.

id: 1209.5035
title: Invariance of quantum correlations under local channel for a bipartite quantum state
authors: Ali Saif M. Hassan, Pramod S. Joag
comments: 4 pages, no figures, proof of theorm 2 modified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5035
abstract: We show that the quantum discord and the measurement induced non-locality (MiN) in a bipartite quantum state is invariant under the action of a local quantum channel if and only if the channel is invertible. In particular, these quantities are invariant under a local unitary channel.

id: 1209.5079
title: Compact quantum circuits from one-way quantum computation
authors: Raphael Dias da Silva, Ernesto F. Galv?o
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012319 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5079
abstract: In this paper we address the problem of translating one-way quantum computation (1WQC) into the circuit model. We start by giving a straightforward circuit representation of any 1WQC, at the cost of introducing many ancilla wires. We then propose a set of four simple circuit identities that explore the relationship between the entanglement resource and correction structure of a 1WQC, allowing one to obtain equivalent circuits acting on fewer qubits. We conclude with some examples and a discussion of open problems.

id: 1209.5082
title: Collapse Miscellany
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: This is to be included in a volume honoring the 80th birthday of Yakir Aharanov. 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5082
abstract: An introduction to the CSL (Continuous Spontaneous Localization) theory of dynamical wave function collapse is provided, including a derivation of CSL from two postulates. There follows applications to a free particle, or to a `small' rigid cluster of free particles, in a single wave-packet and in interfering packets.

id: 1209.5094
title: A solution to two party typicality using representation theory of the symmetric group
authors: Janis Noetzel
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5094
abstract: We show that, given a state on a bipartite system AB, the product of the tensor product of the typical projections for the marginal states on A and B and the typical projection for AB can be used to describe the correct asymptotics of the bipartite state itself, its square, marginals and sqares of the marginals. Typicality is defined using the representation theory of the symmetric group. This result has already been proven, but with a different notion of typicality.

id: 1209.5133
title: An Approximate Solution of the Dynamical Casimir Effect in a Cavity with a Two-Level Atom
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Tatsuo Suzuki
comments: Latex ; 11 pages ; no figure ; minor changes. To appear in International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics
journal: Int. J. Geom. Methods Mod. Phys, 10 (2013), 1350035 (9 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5133
abstract: In this paper we treat the so-called dynamical Casimir effect in a cavity with a two--level atom and give an analytic approximate solution under the general setting. The aim of the paper is to show another approach based on Mathematical Physics to the paper [arXiv : 1112.0523 (quant-ph)] by A. V. Dodonov and V. V. Dodonov. We believe that our method is simple and beautiful.

id: 1209.5176
title: Quantum States Arising from the Pauli Groups, Symmetries and Paradoxes
authors: Michel R. P. Planat
comments: The XXIXth International Colloquium on Group-Theoretical Methods in Physics, China (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5176
abstract: We investigate multiple qubit Pauli groups and the quantum states/rays arising from their maximal bases. Remarkably, the real rays are carried by a Barnes-Wall lattice $BW_n$ ($n=2^m$). We focus on the smallest subsets of rays allowing a state proof of the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem (BKS). BKS theorem rules out realistic non-contextual theories by resorting to impossible assignments of rays among a selected set of maximal orthogonal bases. We investigate the geometrical structure of small BKS-proofs $v-l$ involving $v$ rays and $l$ $2n$-dimensional bases of $n$-qubits. Specifically, we look at the classes of parity proofs 18-9 with two qubits (A. Cabello, 1996), 36-11 with three qubits (M. Kernaghan & A. Peres, 1995) and related classes. One finds characteristic signatures of the distances among the bases, that carry various symmetries in their graphs.

id: 1209.5196
title: Evidence for Bohmian velocities from conditional Schrodinger equation
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 10 pages, revised, arguments refined, new references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5196
abstract: It is often argued that measurable predictions of Bohmian mechanics cannot be distinguished from those of a theory with arbitrarily modified particle velocities satisfying the same equivariance equation. By considering the wave function of a closed system in a state with definite total energy, we argue that a distinction in measurable predictions is possible. Even though such a wave function is time-independent, the conditional wave function for a subsystem depends on time through the time-dependent particle trajectories not belonging to the subsystem. If these trajectories can be approximated by classical trajectories, then the conditional wave function can be approximated by a wave function which satisfies Schrodinger equation in a classical time-dependent potential, which is in good agreement with observations. However, such an approximation cannot be justified for particle velocities significantly deviating from the Bohmian ones, implying that Bohmian velocities are observationally preferred.

id: 1209.5233
title: Majorization-preserving quantum channels
authors: Lin Zhang
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX, an additional result is added and any comments are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5233
abstract: In this report, we give a characterization to those quantum channels that preserve majorization relationship between quantum states. Some remarks are presented as well.

id: 1209.5238
title: Formal languages analysed by quantum walks
authors: Katie Barr, Viv Kendon
comments: 9 Pages, 5 figures. Accepted to QPL 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5238
abstract: Discrete time quantum walks are known to be universal for quantum computation. This has been proven by showing that they can simulate a universal gate set. In this paper we examine computation in terms of language acceptance and present two ways in which discrete time quantum walks can accept some languages with certainty. These walks can take quantum as well as classical inputs, and we show that when the input is quantum, the walks can be interpreted as performing state discrimination.

id: 1209.5273
title: Quantum phases of a multimode bosonic field coupled to flat electronic bands
authors: Simone De Liberato, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 133603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5273
abstract: We investigate the quantum phases of systems in which a multimode bosonic field is coupled to the transitions between two flat electronic bands. In the literature, such systems are usually modeled using a single or multimode Dicke model, leading to the prediction of superradiant quantum phase transitions for large enough couplings. We show that the physics of these systems is remarkably richer than previously expected, with the system continuously interpolating between a Dicke model exhibiting a superradiant quantum phase transition and a quantum Rabi model with no phase transition.

id: 1209.5289
title: Effective quantum memory Hamiltonian from local two-body interactions
authors: Adrian Hutter, Fabio L. Pedrocchi, James R. Wootton, Daniel Loss
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 012321 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5289
abstract: In [Phys. Rev. A 88, 062313 (2013)] we proposed and studied a model for a self-correcting quantum memory in which the energetic cost for introducing a defect in the memory grows without bounds as a function of system size. This positive behavior is due to attractive long-range interactions mediated by a bosonic field to which the memory is coupled. The crucial ingredients for the implementation of such a memory are the physical realization of the bosonic field as well as local five-body interactions between the stabilizer operators of the memory and the bosonic field. Here, we show that both of these ingredients appear in a low-energy effective theory of a Hamiltonian that involves only two-body interactions between neighboring spins. In particular, we consider the low-energy, long-wavelength excitations of an ordered Heisenberg ferromagnet (magnons) as a realization of the bosonic field. Furthermore, we present perturbative gadgets for generating the required five-spin operators. Our Hamiltonian involving only local two-body interactions is thus expected to exhibit self-correcting properties as long as the noise affecting it is in the regime where the effective low-energy description remains valid.

id: 1209.5292
title: EPR-steering: closing the detection loophole with non-maximally entangled states and arbitrary low efficiency
authors: Giuseppe Vallone
comments: Revtex, 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 020101(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5292
abstract: Quantum steering inequalities allow to demonstrate the presence of entanglement between two parties when one of the two measurement device is not trusted. In this paper we show that quantum steering can be demonstrated for arbitrary low detection efficiency by using two-qubit non-maximally entangled states. Our result can have important applications in one-sided device-independent quantum key distribution.

id: 1209.5299
title: The Relationship Between Entanglement, Energy, and Level Degeneracy in Two-Electrons Systems
authors: A. P. Majtey, A. R. Plastino, J. S. Dehesa
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 115309 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5299
abstract: The entanglement properties of two-electron atomic systems have been the subject of considerable research activity in recent years. These studies are still somewhat fragmentary, focusing on numerical computations on particular states of systems such as Helium, or on analytical studies of model-systems such as the Moshinsky atom. Some general trends are beginning to emerge from these studies: the amount of entanglement tends to increase with energy and, in the case of excited states, entanglement does not necessarily tend to zero in the limit of vanishing interaction between the two constituting particles. A physical explanation of these properties, shared by the different two-electrons models investigated so far, is still lacking. As a first step towards this goal we perform here, via a perturbative approach, an analysis of entanglement in two-electrons models that sheds new light on the physical origin of the aforementioned features and on their universal character.

id: 1209.5303
title: Distribution of entanglement in large-scale quantum networks
authors: S. Perseguers, G. J. Lapeyre Jr, D. Cavalcanti, M. Lewenstein, A. Ac¨ªn
comments: 60 pages, 24 figures; updated references; clarified text; typographical corrections
journal: Rep.Prog.Phys. 76 (2013) 096001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5303
abstract: The concentration and distribution of quantum entanglement is an essential ingredient in emerging quantum information technologies. Much theoretical and experimental effort has been expended in understanding how to distribute entanglement in one-dimensional networks. However, as experimental techniques in quantum communication develop, protocols for multi-dimensional systems become essential. Here, we focus on recent theoretical developments in protocols for distributing entanglement in regular and complex networks, with particular attention to percolation theory and network-based error correction.

id: 1209.5305
title: Topological phases in adiabatic and nonadiabatic driven systems
authors: ?lvaro G¨®mez-Le¨®n, Gloria Platero
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 86, 115318 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5305
abstract: In this work we study the geometrical and topological properties of non-equilibrium quantum systems driven by ac fields. We consider two tunnel coupled spin qubits driven by either spatially homogeneous or inhomogeneous ac fields. Our analysis is an extension of the classical model introduced by Berry with he addition of the spatial degree of freedom. We calculate the Berry and Aharonov-Anandan geometric phases, and demonstrate the influence of the different field parameters in the geometric properties. We also discuss the topological properties associated with the different driving regimes, and show that by tuning the different parameters one can induce topological phase transitions, even in the non-adiabatic regime.

id: 1209.5320
title: Excited-state phase transition leading to symmetry-breaking steady states in the Dicke model
authors: Ricardo Puebla, Armando Rela?o, Joaqu¨ªn Retamosa
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, PRL format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5320
abstract: We study the phase diagram of the Dicke model in terms of the excitation energy and the radiation-matter coupling constant $\lambda$. Below a certain critical value $\lambda_c$ of the coupling constant $\lambda$ all the energy levels have a well-defined parity. For $\lambda > \lambda_c$ the energy spectrum exhibits two different phases separated by a critical energy $E_c$ that proves to be independent of $\lambda$. In the upper phase, the energy levels have also a well defined parity, but below $E_c$ the energy levels are doubly degenerated. We show that the long-time behavior of appropriate parity-breaking observables distinguishes between the different phases of the energy spectrum of the Dicke model. Steady states reached from symmetry-breaking initial conditions restore the symmetry only if their expected energies are above the critical. This fact makes it possible to experimentally explore the complete phase diagram of the excitation spectrum of the Dicke model.

id: 1209.5321
title: The influence of the Kerr effect in Mott insulator to superfluid transition from the point of view of the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model
authors: C. B. Gomes, F. A. G. Almeida, A. M. C. Souza
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5321
abstract: We have studied the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model for a chain with the Kerr effect (nonlinear optical effect) through fermionic approximation. We have observed that the Kerr effec does not cause major changes in the energy spectrum. However, the phase transition properties from Mott insulator to superfluid undergoes significant changes due to the Kerr effect.

id: 1209.5327
title: Non-adiabatic control of quantum energy transfer in ordered and disordered arrays
authors: Ping Xiang, Marina Litinskaya, Evgeny A. Shapiro, Roman V. Krems
comments: 25 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 063015 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5327
abstract: An elementary excitation in an aggregate of coupled particles generates a collective excited state. We show that the dynamics of these excitations can be controlled by applying a transient external potential which modifies the phase of the quantum states of the individual particles. The method is based on an interplay of adiabatic and sudden time scales in the quantum evolution of the many-body states. We show that specific phase transformations can be used to accelerate or decelerate quantum energy transfer and spatially focus delocalized excitations onto different parts of arrays of quantum particles. We consider possible experimental implementations of the proposed technique and study the effect of disorder due to the presence of impurities on its fidelity. We further show that the proposed technique can allow control of energy transfer in completely disordered systems.

id: 1209.5332
title: The Role of Correlation in Quantum and Classical Games
authors: Simon J. D. Phoenix, Faisal Shah Khan
comments: To appear in Fluctuation and Noise Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5332
abstract: We use the example of playing a 2-player game with entangled quantum objects to investigate the effect of quantum correlation. We find that for simple game scenarios it is classical correlation that is the central feature and that these simple quantum games are not sensitive to the quantum part of the correlation. In these games played with quantum objects it is possible to transform a game such as Prisoner's Dilemma into the game of Chicken. We show that this behaviour, and the associated enhanced equilibrium payoff over playing the game with quantum objects in non-entangled states, is entirely due to the classical part of the correlation. Generalizing these games to the pure strategy 2-player quantum game where the players have finite strategy sets and a projective joint measurement is made on the output state produced by the players, we show that a given quantum game of this form can always be reproduced by a classical model, such as a communication channel. Where entanglement is a feature of the these 2-player quantum games the matrix of expected outcomes for the players can be reproduced by a classical channel with correlated noise.

id: 1209.5349
title: Generation of spatially pure photon pairs in a multimode nonlinear waveguide using intermodal dispersion
authors: Michal Karpinski, Czeslaw Radzewicz, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Proceedings of Quantum Communications and Quantum Imaging X Conference at SPIE 2012 Optics + Photonics, San Diego, 12-16 August 2012
journal: Proc. SPIE 8518, Quantum Communications and Quantum Imaging X, 85180J (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5349
abstract: We present experimental realization of type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion in a periodically poled potassium titanyl phosphate (KTiOPO4) nonlinear waveguide. We demonstrate that by careful exploitation of intermodal dispersion in the waveguide it is feasible to produce photon pairs in well defined transverse modes without any additional spatial filtering at the output. Spatial characteristics is verified by measurements of the M2 beam quality factors. We also prepared a postselected polarization-entangled two-photon state shown to violate Bell's inequality. Similar techniques based on intermodal dispersion can be used to generate spatial entanglement and hyperentanglement.

id: 1209.5449
title: Photon blockade with a four-level quantum emitter coupled to a photonic-crystal nanocavity
authors: M. Bajcsy, A. Majumdar, A. Rundquist, J. Vu?kovi?
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5449
abstract: We study the photon blockade phenomenon in a nanocavity containing a single four-level quantum emitter. By numerically simulating the second-order autocorrelation function of the intra-cavity field with realistic parameters achievable in a state-of-the-art photonic-crystal nanocavity, we show that in the strongly coupled regime the resulting photon blockade is significantly better than that achievable with a two-level emitter. We introduce an intuitive picture of the photon blockade with a four-level emitter that explains the performance difference between the two-level and the four-level emitter schemes, as well as why -- in contrast to a cavity containing a two-level atom -- signatures of photon blockade appear and should be experimentally observable even outside the strong coupling regime when a four-level emitter is used. Finally, we show that the emitter-cavity coupling achievable in a nanocavity can overcome the non-ideal spacing of optical transitions in realistic four-level emitters that has so far prevented experimental realization of this photon blockade scheme.

id: 1209.5491
title: Quantum binary field inversion: improved circuit depth via choice of basis representation
authors: Brittanney Amento, Martin Roetteler, Rainer Steinwandt
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 13(1-2): 116-134 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5491
abstract: Finite fields of the form GF(2^m) play an important role in coding theory and cryptography. We show that the choice of how to represent the elements of these fields can have a significant impact on the resource requirements for quantum arithmetic. In particular, we show how the use of Gaussian normal basis representations and of `ghost-bit basis' representations can be used to implement inverters with a quantum circuit of depth O(m log(m)). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first construction with subquadratic depth reported in the literature. Our quantum circuit for the computation of multiplicative inverses is based on the Itoh-Tsujii algorithm which exploits that in normal basis representation squaring corresponds to a permutation of the coefficients. We give resource estimates for the resulting quantum circuit for inversion over binary fields GF(2^m) based on an elementary gate set that is useful for fault-tolerant implementation.

id: 1209.5493
title: Generating atomic multi-dimensional entangled states under large atom-cavity detuning
authors: Peng Shi, Li-Bo Chen, Wen-Dong Li, Chun-Nian Ren, Chun-Hong Zheng, Yong-Jian Gu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5493
abstract: We propose a scheme to deterministically generate atomic two-dimensional and three-dimensional entangled states by passing two 87Rb atoms through a high-Q bi-mode cavity alternately. The scheme is insensitive to atomic spontaneous decay because of large atom-cavity detuning, the influence of cavity decay is also discussed. Our strictly numerical simulation shows our proposal is good enough to demonstrate the generation of atomic entanglement with high fidelity and within the current experimental technologies.

id: 1209.5510
title: Exact Non-Markovian Master Equation and Dispersive Probing of Non-Markovian Process
authors: Li-Ping Yang, C. Y. Cai, D. Z. Xu, Wei-Min Zhang, C. P. Sun
comments: 13 pages and 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012110 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5510
abstract: For a bosonic (fermionic) open system in a bath with many bosons (fermions) modes, we derive the exact non-Markovian master equation in which the memory effect of the bath is reflected in the time dependent decay rates. In this approach, the reduced density operator is constructed from the formal solution of the corresponding Heisenberg equations. As an application of the exact master equation, we study the active probing of non-Markovianity of the quantum dissipation of a single boson mode of electromagnetic (EM) field in a cavity QED system. The non-Markovianity of the bath of the cavity is explicitly reflected by the atomic decoherence factor.

id: 1209.5533
title: Quantum Theory, namely the pure and reversible theory of information
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures, contribution to the Special Issue: Selected Papers from Symposium on Natural/Unconventional Computing and Its Philosophical Significance. This paper is meant to be an introduction for non-specialists to the main results of arXiv:1011.6451 and arXiv:0908.1583
journal: Entropy, 14(10), 1877-1893 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5533
abstract: After more than a century since its birth, Quantum Theory still eludes our understanding. If asked to describe it, we have to resort to abstract and ad hoc principles about complex Hilbert spaces. How is it possible that a fundamental physical theory cannot be described using the ordinary language of Physics? Here we offer a contribution to the problem from the angle of Quantum Information, providing a short non-technical presentation of a recent derivation of Quantum Theory from information-theoretic principles. The broad picture emerging from the principles is that Quantum Theory is the only standard theory of information compatible with the purity and reversibility of physical processes.

id: 1209.5545
title: The Saturation of Several Universal Inequalities in Information-Processing
authors: Lin Zhang, Junde Wu, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: v1: 8 pages, LaTeX, any comments are welcome! v2: 10 pages, the title is changed
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 63 (2015) 427
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5545
abstract: In this paper, we characterize the saturation of four universal inequalities in quantum information theory, including a variant version of strong subadditivity inequality for von Neumann entropy, the coherent information inequality, the Holevo quantity and average entropy inequalities. These results shed new light on quantum information inequalities.

id: 1209.5568
title: Quantum State Preparation by Controlled Dissipation in Finite Time: From Classical to Quantum Controllers
authors: Giacomo Baggio, Francesco Ticozzi, Lorenza Viola
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. Submitted to CDC 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5568
abstract: We propose a general scheme for dissipatively preparing arbitrary pure quantum states on a multipartite qubit register in a finite number of basic control blocks. Our "splitting-subspace" approach relies on control resources that are available in a number of scalable quantum technologies (complete unitary control on the target system, an ancillary resettable qubit and controlled-not gates between the target and the ancilla), and can be seen as a "quantum-controller" implementation of a sequence of classical feedback loops. We show how a large degree of flexibility exists in engineering the required conditional operations, and make explicit contact with a stabilization protocol used for dissipative quantum state preparation and entanglement generation in recent experiments with trapped ions.

id: 1209.5574
title: Standard super-activation for Gaussian channels requires squeezing
authors: Daniel Lercher, G¨¦za Giedke, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 5 pages, close to published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 123003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5574
abstract: The quantum capacity of bosonic Gaussian quantum channels can be non-additive in a particularly striking way: a pair of such optical-fiber type channels can individually have zero quantum capacity but super-activate each other such that the combined channel has strictly positive capacity. This has been shown in [Nature Photonics 5, 624 (2011)] where it was conjectured that squeezing is a necessary resource for this phenomenon. We provide a proof of this conjecture by showing that for gauge covariant channels a Choi matrix with positive partial transpose implies that the channel is entanglement-breaking. In addition, we construct an example which shows that this implication fails to hold for Gaussian channels which arise from passive interactions with a squeezed environment.

id: 1209.5620
title: Role of the spectral shape of quantum correlations in two-photon virtual-state spectroscopy
authors: R. de J. Le¨®n-Montiel, J. Svozil¨ªk, L. J. Salazar-Serrano, J. P. Torres
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 053023 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5620
abstract: It is controversial what is the true role of entanglement in two-photon virtual-state spectroscopy [Saleh et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 3483, 1998], a two-photon absorption spectroscopic technique that can retrieve information about the energy level structure of an atom or a molecule. The consideration of closely related techniques, such as multidimensional pump-probe spectroscopy [Roslyak et al, Phys. Rev. A 79, 063409, 2009], might suggest that spectroscopic information retrieved in the two-photon absorption process is the same regardless of the classical or quantum nature of the light source. Here, we solve this debate by making use of a full quantum formalism to show that the ability to obtain information about the energy level structure of a medium requires the existence of temporal (frequency) correlations between the absorbed photons. Moreover, we show that these correlations are not the only requisite for retrieving such information. In fact, it is a combination of both, the presence of frequency correlations and its specific spectral shape, which makes the realization of two-photon virtual-state spectroscopy possible. This result helps clarifying the discussion whether entanglement is needed or not, and also, to specify the type of two-photon source that needs to be used in order to experimentally perform the two-photon virtual-state spectroscopy technique.

id: 1209.5643
title: Dimension witnesses and quantum state discrimination
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Miguel Navascu¨¦s, Tam¨¢s V¨¦rtesi
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 150501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5643
abstract: Dimension witnesses allow one to test the dimension of an unknown physical system in a device-independent manner, that is, without placing assumptions about the functioning of the devices used in the experiment. Here we present simple and general dimension witnesses for quantum systems of arbitrary Hilbert space dimension. Our approach is deeply connected to the problem of quantum state discrimination, hence establishing a strong link between these two research topics. Finally, our dimension witnesses can distinguish between classical and quantum systems of the same dimension, making them potentially useful for quantum information processing.

id: 1209.5721
title: Nanosecond-scale timing jitter in transition edge sensors at telecom and visible wavelengths
authors: Antia Lamas-Linares, Brice Calkins, Nathan A. Tomlin, Thomas Gerrits, Adriana E. Lita, Joern Beyer, Richard P. Mirin, Sae Woo Nam
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 231117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5721
abstract: Transition edge sensors (TES) have the highest reported efficiencies (>98%) for detection of single photons in the visible and near infrared. Experiments in quantum information and foundations of physics that rely critically on this efficiency have started incorporating these detectors into con- ventional quantum optics setups. However, their range of applicability has been hindered by slow operation both in recovery time and timing jitter. We show here how a conventional tungsten-TES can be operated with jitter times of < 4 ns, well within the timing resolution necessary for MHz clocking of experiments, and providing an important practical simplification for experiments that rely on the simultaneous closing of both efficiency and locality loopholes.

id: 1209.5736
title: Quantum Metrology Assisted with Abstention
authors: B. Gendra, E. Ronco-Bonvehi, J. Calsamiglia, R. Munoz-Tapia, E. Bagan
comments: Some typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 100501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5736
abstract: The main goal of quantum metrology is to obtain accurate values of physical parameters using quantum probes. In this context, we show that abstention, i.e., the possibility of getting an inconclusive answer at readout, can drastically improve the measurement precision. We focus on phase estimation and quantify the required amount of abstention for a given precision. We also develop analytical tools to obtain the asymptotic behavior of the precision and required rate of abstention for arbitrary pure qubit states.

id: 1209.5737
title: Self-consistent tomography of the state-measurement Gram matrix
authors: Cyril Stark
comments: We have completely rewritten the first version because new results from arXiv:1209.6499 allowed to significantly clearify the first submission. We have added some references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052109 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5737
abstract: State and measurement tomography make assumptions about the experimental states or measurements. These assumptions are often not justified because state preparation and measurement errors are unavoidable in practice. Here we describe how the Gram matrix associated with the states and measurement operators can be estimated via semidefinite programming if the states and the measurements are so called globally completable. This is for instance the case if the unknown measurements are known to be projective and non-degenerate. The computed Gram matrix determines the states, and the measurement operators uniquely up to simultaneous rotations in the space of Hermitian matrices. We prove the reliability of the proposed method in the limit of a large number of independent measurement repetitions.

id: 1209.5750
title: Local topological order inhibits thermal stability in 2D
authors: Olivier Landon-Cardinal, David Poulin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 090502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5750
abstract: We study the robustness of quantum information stored in the degenerate ground space of a local, frustration-free Hamiltonian with commuting terms on a 2D spin lattice. On one hand, a macroscopic energy barrier separating the distinct ground states under local transformations would protect the information from thermal fluctuations. On the other hand, local topological order would shield the ground space from static perturbations. Here we demonstrate that local topological order implies a constant energy barrier, thus inhibiting thermal stability.

id: 1209.5795
title: Non-equilibrium dynamics of Ising models with decoherence: an exact solution
authors: Michael Foss-Feig, Kaden R. A. Hazzard, John J. Bollinger, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, citations added
journal: Physical Review A 87, 042101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5795
abstract: The interplay between interactions and decoherence in many-body systems is of fundamental importance in quantum physics: Decoherence can degrade correlations, but can also give rise to a variety of rich dynamical and steady-state behaviors. We obtain an exact analytic solution for the non-equilibrium dynamics of Ising models with arbitrary interactions and subject to the most general form of local Markovian decoherence. Our solution shows that decoherence affects the relaxation of observables more than predicted by single-particle considerations. It also reveals a dynamical phase transition, specifically a Hopf bifurcation, which is absent at the single-particle level. These calculations are applicable to ongoing quantum information and emulation efforts using a variety of atomic, molecular, optical, and solid-state systems.

id: 1209.5834
title: A probabilistic approach to quantum Bayesian games of incomplete information
authors: Azhar Iqbal, James M. Chappell, Qiang Li, Charles E.M. Pearce, Derek Abbott
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol. 13, 2783-2800 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5834
abstract: A Bayesian game is a game of incomplete information in which the rules of the game are not fully known to all players. We consider the Bayesian game of Battle of Sexes that has several Bayesian Nash equilibria and investigate its outcome when the underlying probability set is obtained from generalized Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen experiments. We find that this probability set, which may become non-factorizable, results in a unique Bayesian Nash equilibrium of the game.

id: 1209.5925
title: Distributed entanglement generation between continuous-mode Gaussian fields with measurement-feedback enhancement
authors: Hendra I. Nurdin, Naoki Yamamoto
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures. Almost identical to the published version (the latter has some final minor editorial changes)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022337 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5925
abstract: This paper studies a scheme of two spatially distant oscillator systems that are connected by Gaussian fields and examines distributed entanglement generation between two continuous-mode output Gaussian fields that are radiated by the oscillators. It is demonstrated that using measurement-feedback control while a non-local effective entangling operation is on can help to enhance the Einstein-Podolski-Rosen (EPR)-like entanglement between the output fields. The effect of propagation delays and losses in the fields interconnecting the two oscillators, and the effect of other losses in the system, are also considered. In particular, for a range of time delays the measurement feedback controller is able to maintain stability of the closed-loop system and the entanglement enhancement, but the achievable enhancement is only over a smaller bandwidth that is commensurate with the length of the time delays.

id: 1209.5932
title: Efficient quantum algorithm to construct arbitrary Dicke states
authors: Kaushik Chakraborty, Byung-Soo Choi, Arpita Maitra, Subhamoy Maitra
comments: After posting this draft to the arxiv (September 26, 2012), we received an email from Prof. Andrew M. Childs on October 3, 2012, referring [2] that also considered the same problem. However, our work is independent and uses a different approach. We were not aware of [2] while posting this draft for the first time. We have now included additional material and a detailed comparison with [2]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5932
abstract: In this paper, we study efficient algorithms towards the construction of any arbitrary Dicke state. Our contribution is to use proper symmetric Boolean functions that involve manipulations with Krawtchouk polynomials. Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm, Grover algorithm and the parity measurement technique are stitched together to devise the complete algorithm. Further, motivated by the work of Childs et al (2002), we explore how one can plug the biased Hadamard transformation in our strategy. Our work compares fairly with the results of Childs et al (2002).

id: 1209.5933
title: When do pieces determine the whole? Extremal marginals of a completely positive map
authors: Erkka Haapasalo, Teiko Heinosaari, Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: 
journal: Rev. Math. Phys. 26, 1450002 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5933
abstract: We will consider completely positive maps defined on tensor products of von Neumann algebras and taking values in the algebra of bounded operators on a Hilbert space and particularly certain convex subsets of the set of such maps. We show that when one of the marginal maps of such a map is an extremal point, then the marginals uniquely determine the map. We will further prove that when both of the marginals are extremal, then the whole map is extremal. We show that this general result is the common source of several well-known results dealing with, e.g., jointly measurable observables. We also obtain new insight especially in the realm of quantum instruments and their marginal observables and channels.

id: 1209.5952
title: Quantum collapses and revivals of a matter wave in the dynamics of symmetry breaking
authors: Frank Kirtschig, Jorrit Rijnbeek, Jeroen van den Brink, Carmine Ortix
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 014304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5952
abstract: Using the remarkable mathematical construct of Eugene Wigner to visualize quantum trajectories in phase space, quantum processes can be described in terms of a quasi-probability distribution analogous to the phase space probability distribution of the classical realm. In contrast to the incomplete glimpse of the wave function that is achievable in a single shot experiment, the Wigner distribution, accessible by quantum state tomography, reflects the full quantum state. We show that during the fundamental symmetry-breaking process of a generic quantum system - with a symmetry breaking field driving the quantum system far from equilibrium - the Wigner distribution evolves continuously with the system undergoing a sequence of revivals into the symmetry unbroken state, followed by collapses onto a quasi-classical state akin the one realised in infinite size systems. We show that generically this state is completely delocalised both in momentum and in real space.

id: 1209.6010
title: Solving search problems by strongly simulating quantum circuits
authors: T. H. Johnson, J. D. Biamonte, S. R. Clark, D. Jaksch
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1235 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6010
abstract: Simulating quantum circuits using classical computers lets us analyse the inner workings of quantum algorithms. The most complete type of simulation, strong simulation, is believed to be generally inefficient. Nevertheless, several efficient strong simulation techniques are known for restricted families of quantum circuits and we develop an additional technique in this article. Further, we show that strong simulation algorithms perform another fundamental task: solving search problems. Efficient strong simulation techniques allow solutions to a class of search problems to be counted and found efficiently. This enhances the utility of strong simulation methods, known or yet to be discovered, and extends the class of search problems known to be efficiently simulable. Relating strong simulation to search problems also bounds the computational power of efficiently strongly simulable circuits; if they could solve all problems in $\mathrm{P}$ this would imply the collapse of the complexity hierarchy $\mathrm{P} \subseteq \mathrm{NP} \subseteq # \mathrm{P}$.

id: 1209.6040
title: Merging Quantum Loop Gases: a Route to Non-Abelian Topological Phases
authors: Bel¨¦n Paredes
comments: 10 pages, 18 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6040
abstract: Condensation of quantum loops naturally leads to topological phases with Abelian excitations. Here, I propose that non-Abelian topological phases can arise from merging two (or several) identical Abelian quantum loop condensates. I define merging through a symmetrization operation, which makes the two loop condensates indistinguishable, inducing the possibility of a topological degeneracy in the space of quasiparticles. To illustrate the construction, the case of two identical toric-code quantum loop gases is considered. A spin-1 model for the two dimensional square lattice is presented for which the resulting merged state is the exact unique ground state. This Hamiltonian involves four-body interactions between spins located at the same plaquette or vertex, which are quadratic in the spin-1 operators. Vertex and plaquette interaction terms are not mutually commuting. The model displays gapped excitations which result from merging anyons in both toric-code copies. These excitations exhibit non-Abelian braiding properties.

id: 1209.6072
title: The Casimir effect as a sum-over-modes in dissipative systems
authors: Francesco Intravaia, Ryan Behunin
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062517 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6072
abstract: The aim of this paper is to show that within the open-system framework the sum-over-modes approach \'a la Casimir leads to the Lifshitz formula for the Casimir free energy. A general result applicable to arbitrary geometries is obtained through the use of Ford, Lewis, & O'Connell's remarkable formula. Additionally, we address the possibility for obtaining the Casimir energy as a sum over complex "modes". We show in this case that the standard sum-over-modes formula must be suitably generalized to avert unphysical complex energies. Finally, we apply our results to several standard examples.

id: 1209.6079
title: Experimental characterization of Gaussian quantum discord generated by four-wave mixing
authors: Ulrich Vogl, Ryan T. Glasser, Quentin Glorieux, Jeremy B. Clark, Neil Corzo-Trejo, Paul D. Lett
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6079
abstract: We experimentally determine the quantum discord present in two-mode squeezed vacuum generated by a four-wave mixing process in hot rubidium vapor. The frequency spectra of the discord, as well as the quantum and classical mutual information are also measured. In addition, the effects of symmetric attenuation introduced into both modes of the squeezed vacuum on the discord, the quantum mutual information and the classical correlations are examined experimentally. Finally, we show that due to the multi-spatial-mode nature of the four-wave mixing process, the quantum discord may exhibit sub- or superadditivity depending on which spatial channels are selected.

id: 1209.6118
title: Entangler and analyzer for multiphoton maximally entangled states using weak nonlinearities
authors: Dong Ding, Fengli Yan
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6118
abstract: In the regime of weak nonlinearity we present two general feasible schemes. One is an entangler for generating any one of the $n$-photon Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinge (GHZ) states and Bell states. After the interactions with cross-Kerr nonlinear media, a phase gate followed by a measurement on the probe beam, and appropriate local operations via classical feed-forward, one can obtain the desired states in a nearly deterministic way. Another scheme is an analyzer for multiphoton maximally entangled states, which is taken as a further application of the above entangler. In this scheme, all of the $2^n$ $n$-photon GHZ states can, nearly deterministically, be discriminated. Furthermore, an efficient two-step nondestructive Bell-state analyzer is designed.

id: 1209.6178
title: Experimental measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution
authors: Yang Liu, Teng-Yun Chen, Liu-Jun Wang, Hao Liang, Guo-Liang Shentu, Jian Wang, Ke Cui, Hua-Lei Yin, Nai-Le Liu, Li Li, Xiongfeng Ma, Jason S. Pelc, M. M. Fejer, Qiang Zhang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 130502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6178
abstract: Throughout history, every advance in encryption has been defeated by advances in hacking with severe consequences. Quantum cryptography holds the promise to end this battle by offering unconditional security when ideal single-photon sources and detectors are employed. Unfortunately, ideal devices never exist in practice and device imperfections have become the targets of various attacks. By developing up-conversion single-photon detectors with high efficiency and low noise, we build up a measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) system, which is immune to all hacking strategies on detection. Meanwhile, we employ the decoy-state method to defeat attacks on non-ideal source. By closing the loopholes in both source and detection, our practical system, which generates more than 25 kbit secure key over a 50-km fiber link, provides an ultimate solution for communication security.

id: 1209.6322
title: Statistical ensembles in Hamiltonian formulation of hybrid quantum-classical systems
authors: N. Buric, I.Mendas, D. B. Popovic, M. Radonjic, S. Prvanovic
comments: This is the published version of the paper with an added note with an observation made after the paper was accepted. The main conclusions are as in the published version but the final formula is considerably simplifed
journal: Phys.Rev.A vol. 86, 034104 (2012) Phys.Rev.A (Vol.86, No.3):034104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6322
abstract: General statistical ensembles in the Hamiltonian formulation of hybrid quantum-classical systems are analyzed. It is argued that arbitrary probability densities on the hybrid phase space must be considered as the class of possible physically distinguishable statistical ensembles of hybrid systems. Nevertheless, statistical operators associated with the hybrid system and with the quantum subsystem can be consistently defined. Dynamical equations for the statistical operators representing the mixed states of the hybrid system and its quantum subsystem are derived and analyzed. In particular, these equations irreducibly depend on the total probability density on the hybrid phase space.

id: 1209.6325
title: Arbitrarily varying and compound classical-quantum channels and a note on quantum zero-error capacities
authors: Igor Bjelakovi?, Holger Boche, Gisbert Jan?en, Janis N?tzel
comments: 37 pages, 0 figures. Accepted for publication in the LNCS Volume in Memory of Rudolf Ahlswede. Includes a section on certain differences between classical and classical-quantum channels regarding their zero-error capacities
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6325
abstract: We consider compound as well as arbitrarily varying classical-quantum channel models. For classical-quantum compound channels, we give an elementary proof of the direct part of the coding theorem. A weak converse under average error criterion to this statement is also established. We use this result together with the robustification and elimination technique developed by Ahlswede in order to give an alternative proof of the direct part of the coding theorem for a finite classical-quantum arbitrarily varying channels with the criterion of success being average error probability. Moreover we provide a proof of the strong converse to the random coding capacity in this setting.The notion of symmetrizability for the maximal error probability is defined and it is shown to be both necessary and sufficient for the capacity for message transmission with maximal error probability criterion to equal zero. Finally, it is shown that the connection between zero-error capacity and certain arbitrarily varying channels is, just like in the case of quantum channels, only partially valid for classical-quantum channels.

id: 1209.6331
title: Comparison of non-Markovianity criteria in a qubit system under random external fields
authors: Maria Mannone, Rosario Lo Franco, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. Some changes made. In press on Physica Scripta T (special issue)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6331
abstract: We give the map representing the evolution of a qubit under the action of non-dissipative random external fields. From this map we construct the corresponding master equation that in turn allows us to phenomenologically introduce population damping of the qubit system. We then compare, in this system, the time-regions when non-Markovianity is present on the basis of different criteria both for the non-dissipative and dissipative case. We show that the adopted criteria agree both in the non-dissipative case and in the presence of population damping.

id: 1209.6334
title: Observation of Radiation Pressure Shot Noise on a Macroscopic Object
authors: T. P. Purdy, R. W. Peterson, C. A. Regal
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: Science 339, 801 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6334
abstract: The quantum mechanics of position measurement of a macroscopic object is typically inaccessible because of strong coupling to the environment and classical noise. Here we monitor a mechanical resonator subject to an increasingly strong continuous position measurement and observe a quantum mechanical backaction force that rises in accordance with the Heisenberg uncertainty limit. For our optically-based position measurements, the backaction takes the form of a fluctuating radiation pressure from the Poisson-distributed photons in the coherent measurement field, termed radiation pressure shot noise. We demonstrate a backaction force that is comparable in magnitude to the thermal forces in our system. Additionally, we observe a temporal correlation between fluctuations in the radiation force and in the position of the resonator.

id: 1209.6348
title: Efficient quantum circuits for binary elliptic curve arithmetic: reducing T-gate complexity
authors: Brittanney Amento, Rainer Steinwandt, Martin Roetteler
comments: 14 pages
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 13(7-8): 631-644 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6348
abstract: Elliptic curves over finite fields GF(2^n) play a prominent role in modern cryptography. Published quantum algorithms dealing with such curves build on a short Weierstrass form in combination with affine or projective coordinates. In this paper we show that changing the curve representation allows a substantial reduction in the number of T-gates needed to implement the curve arithmetic. As a tool, we present a quantum circuit for computing multiplicative inverses in GF(2^n) in depth O(n log n) using a polynomial basis representation, which may be of independent interest.

id: 1209.6357
title: Comment on: `Numerical estimates of the spectrum for anharmonic PT symmetric potentials' [Phys. Scr. \textbf{85} (2012) 065005]
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 7 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6357
abstract: We show that the authors of the commented paper draw their conclusions from the eigenvalues of truncated Hamiltonian matrices that do not converge as the matrix dimension increases. In one of the studied examples the authors missed the real positive eigenvalues that already converge towards the exact eigenvalues of the non-Hermitian operator and focused their attention on the complex ones that do not. We also show that the authors misread Bender's argument about the eigenvalues of the harmonic oscillator with boundary conditions in the complex-$x$ plane (Rep. Prog. Phys. {\bf 70} (2007) 947).

id: 1209.6404
title: Downconversion quantum interface for a single quantum dot spin and 1550-nm single-photon channel
authors: Jason S. Pelc, Leo Yu, Kristiaan De Greve, Peter L. McMahon, Chandra M. Natarajan, Vahid Esfandyarpour, Sebastian Maier, Christian Schneider, Martin Kamp, Sven H?fling, Robert H. Hadfield, Alfred Forchel, Yoshihisa Yamamoto, M. M. Fejer
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 25, pp. 27510-27519 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6404
abstract: Long-distance quantum communication networks require appropriate interfaces between matter qubit-based nodes and low-loss photonic quantum channels. We implement a downconversion quantum interface, where the single photons emitted from a semiconductor quantum dot at 910 nm are downconverted to 1560 nm using a fiber-coupled periodically poled lithium niobate waveguide and a 2.2-$\mu$m pulsed pump laser. The single-photon character of the quantum dot emission is preserved during the downconversion process: we measure a cross-correlation $g^{(2)}(\tau = 0) = 0.17$ using resonant excitation of the quantum dot. We show that the downconversion interface is fully compatible with coherent optical control of the quantum dot electron spin through the observation of Rabi oscillations in the downconverted photon counts. These results represent a critical step towards a long-distance hybrid quantum network in which subsystems operating at different wavelengths are connected through quantum frequency conversion devices and 1.5-$\mu$m quantum channels.

id: 1209.6479
title: Effects of preparation and measurement misalignments on the security of the BB84 quantum key distribution protocol
authors: Erik Woodhead, Stefano Pironio
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032315 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6479
abstract: The ideal Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) quantum key distribution protocol is based on the preparation and measurement of qubits in two alternative bases differing by an angle of pi/2. Any real implementation of the protocol, though, will inevitably introduce misalignments in the preparation of the states and in the alignment of the measurement bases with respect to this ideal situation. Various security proofs take into account (at least partially) such errors, i.e., show how Alice and Bob can still distil a secure key in the presence of these imperfections. Here, we consider the complementary problem: how can Eve exploit misalignments to obtain more information about the key than would be possible in an ideal implementation? Specifically, we investigate the effects of misalignment errors on the security of the BB84 protocol in the case of individual attacks, where necessary and sufficient conditions for security are known. Though the effects of these errors are small for expected deviations from the perfect situation, our results nevertheless show that Alice and Bob can incorrectly conclude that they have established a secure key if the inevitable experimental errors in the state preparation and in the alignment of the measurements are not taken into account. This gives further weight to the idea that the formulation and security analysis of any quantum cryptography protocol should be based on realistic assumptions about the properties of the apparatus used. Additionally, we note that BB84 seems more robust against alignment imperfections if both the x and z bases are used to generate the key.

id: 1209.6499
title: Global Completability with Applications to Self-Consistent Quantum Tomography
authors: Cyril Stark
comments: In the new version we focus entirely on the geometric problem described in the abstract. Proofs are more detailed and hopefully more transparent. To make contact with the literature on related questions, we talk about completability instead of rigidity. However, we had to remove the discussion of projective non-degenerate measurements. This investigation is better embedded in another manuscript
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6499
abstract: Let p_1, ..., p_N \in R^D be unknown vectors and let Omega \subseteq {1,...,N}^{\times 2}. Assume that the inner products p_i^T p_j are fixed for all (i,j) \in Omega. Do these inner product constraints (up to simultaneous rotation of all vectors) determine p_1, ..., p_N uniquely? Here we derive a necessary and sufficient condition for the uniqueness of p_1, ...,p_N (i.e., global completability) which is applicable to a large class of practically relevant sets Omega. Moreover, given Omega, we show that the condition for global completability is universal in the sense that for almost all vectors p_1, ...,p_N \in R^D the completability of p_1, ...,p_N only depends on Omega and not on the specific values of p_i^T p_j$ for (i,j) \in Omega. This work was motivated by practical considerations, namely, self-consistent quantum tomography.

id: 1209.6511
title: Fully covariant radiation force on a polarizable particle
authors: Gregor Pieplow, Carsten Henkel
comments: 16 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 023027
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6511
abstract: The electromagnetic force on a polarizable particle is calculated in a covariant framework. Local equilibrium temperatures for the electromagnetic field and the particle's dipole moment are assumed, using a relativistic formulation of the fluctuation-dissipation theorem. Two examples illustrate radiative friction forces: a particle moving through a homogeneous radiation background and above a planar interface. Previous results for arbitrary relative velocities are recovered in a compact way.

id: 1209.6517
title: Efficient single-photon entanglement concentration for quantum communications
authors: Lan Zhou
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6517
abstract: We present two protocols for the single-photon entanglement concentration. With the help of the 50:50 beam splitter, variable beam splitter and an auxiliary photon, we can concentrate a less-entangled single-photon state into a maximally single-photon entangled state with some probability. The first protocol is implemented with linear optics and the second protocol is implemented with the cross-Kerr nonlinearity. Our two protocols do not need two pairs of entangled states shared by the two parties, which makes our protocols more economic. Especially, in the second protocol, with the help of the cross-Kerr nonlinearity, the sophisticated single photon detector is not required. Moreover, the second protocol can be reused to get higher success probability. All these advantages may make our protocols useful in the long-distance quantum communication.

id: 1209.6530
title: Atomic entanglement purification using photonic Faraday rotation
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Sheng-Yang Zhao, Jiong Liu
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6530
abstract: We describe an entanglement purification protocol (EPP) for atomic entangled pair using photonic Faraday rotation. It is shown that after the two single photons input-output process in cavity QED, the high quality entangled atomic state can be obtained from the low quality mixed entangled atomic states. Different from other EPPs, the two pairs of mixed states do not need to intact directly. As the photonic Faraday rotation works on the low-Q cavities, this EPP is useful in both quantum communication and computation.

id: 1209.6553
title: Light scattering in an optomechanical cavity coupled to a single atom
authors: Daniel Breyer, Marc Bienert
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053819 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6553
abstract: We theoretically analyze the light scattering of an optomechanical cavity which strongly interacts with a single two-level system and couples simultaneously to a mechanical oscillator by radiation forces. The analysis is based on the assumptions that the system is driven at low intensity, and that the mechanical interaction is sufficiently weak, permitting a perturbative treatment. We find quantum interference in the scattering paths, which allows to suppress the Stokes-component of the scattered light. This effect can be exploited to reduce the motional energy of the mechanical oscillator.

id: 1209.6566
title: Controlling spontaneous emission with plasmonic optical patch antennas
authors: C. Belacel, B. Habert, F. Bigourdan, F. Marquier, J.-P. Hugonin, S. Michaelis de Vasconcellos, X. Lafosse, L. Coolen, C. Schwob, C. Javaux, B. Dubertret, J.-J. Greffet, P. Senellart, A. Maitre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6566
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the control of the spontaneous emission rate and the radiation pattern of colloidal quantum dots deterministically positioned in a plasmonic patch antenna. The antenna consists of a thin gold microdisk 30 nm above a thick gold layer. The emitters are shown to radiate through the entire patch antenna in a highly directional and vertical radiation pattern. Strong acceleration of spontaneous emission is observed, depending of the antenna size. Considering the double dipole structure of the emitters, this corresponds to a Purcell factor up to 80 for dipoles perpendicular to the disk.

id: 1209.6568
title: Beyond adiabatic elimination: A hierarchy of approximations for multi-photon processes
authors: Vanessa Paulisch, Rui Han, Hui Khoon Ng, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. Version 2 has a different title, and expands on version 1 with more in-depth discussion and examples
journal: EPJ-Plus 129:12 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6568
abstract: In multi-level systems, the commonly used adiabatic elimination is a method for approximating the dynamics of the system by eliminating irrelevant, non-resonantly coupled levels. This procedure is, however, somewhat ambiguous and it is not clear how to improve on it systematically. We use an integro-differential equation for the probability amplitudes of the levels of interest, which is equivalent to the original Schrodinger equation for all probability amplitudes. In conjunction with a Markov approximation, the integro-differential equation is then used to generate a hierarchy of approximations, in which the zeroth order is the adiabatic-elimination approximation. It works well with a proper choice of interaction picture; the procedure suggests criteria for optimizing this choice. The first-order approximation in the hierarchy provides significant improvements over standard adiabatic elimination, without much increase in complexity, and is furthermore not so sensitive to the choice of interaction picture. We illustrate these points with several examples.

id: 1209.6569
title: Raman transitions without adiabatic elimination: A simple and accurate treatment
authors: Rui Han, Hui Khoon Ng, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 60, 255 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6569
abstract: Driven Raman processes --- nearly resonant two-photon transitions through an intermediate state that is non-resonantly coupled and does not acquire a sizeable population --- are commonly treated with a simplified description in which the intermediate state is removed by adiabatic elimination. While the adiabatic-elimination approximation is reliable when the detuning of the intermediate state is quite large, it cannot be trusted in other situations, and it does not allow one to estimate the population in the eliminated state. We introduce an alternative method that keeps all states in the description, without increasing the complexity by much. An integro-differential equation of Lippmann-Schwinger type generates a hierarchy of approximations, but very accurate results are already obtained in the lowest order.

id: 1209.6572
title: Yield--Optimized Superoscillations
authors: Eytan Katzav, Moshe Schwartz
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, Vol. 61, pp. 3113 - 3118 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6572
abstract: Superoscillating signals are band--limited signals that oscillate in some region faster their largest Fourier component. While such signals have many scientific and technological applications, their actual use is hampered by the fact that an overwhelming proportion of the energy goes into that part of the signal, which is not superoscillating. In the present article we consider the problem of optimization of such signals. The optimization that we describe here is that of the superoscillation yield, the ratio of the energy in the superoscillations to the total energy of the signal, given the range and frequency of the superoscillations. The constrained optimization leads to a generalized eigenvalue problem, which is solved numerically. It is noteworthy that it is possible to increase further the superoscillation yield at the cost of slightly deforming the oscillatory part of the signal, while keeping the average frequency. We show, how this can be done gradually, which enables a trade-off between the distortion and the yield. We show how to apply this approach to non-trivial domains, and explain how to generalize this to higher dimensions.

id: 1209.6588
title: Generic examples of PT-symmetric qubit (spin 1/2) Liouvillians
authors: Tomaz Prosen
comments: In press as Brief Report in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6588
abstract: We outline two general classes of examples of PT-symmetric quantum Liouvillian dynamics of open many qubit systems, namely interacting hard-core bosons (or more general XYZ-type spin 1/2 systems) with, either (i) pure dephasing noise, or (ii) having solely single particle/spin injection/absorption incoherent processes.

id: 1209.6625
title: Inverting pump-probe spectroscopy for state tomography of excitonic systems
authors: Stephan Hoyer, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures. This is the accepted version for publication in the Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 138, 164102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6625
abstract: We propose a two-step protocol for inverting ultrafast spectroscopy experiments on a molecular aggregate to extract the time-evolution of the excited state density matrix. The first step is a deconvolution of the experimental signal to determine a pump-dependent response function. The second step inverts the quantum state of the system from this response function, given a model for how the system evolves following the probe interaction. We demonstrate this inversion analytically and numerically for a dimer model system, and evaluate the feasibility of scaling it to larger molecular aggregates such as photosynthetic protein-pigment complexes. Our scheme provides a direct alternative to the approach of determining all Hamiltonian parameters and then simulating excited state dynamics.

id: 1209.0086
title: Constraints on non-Newtonian gravity and light elementary particles from measurements of the Casimir force by means of dynamic AFM
authors: G.L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys. Rev. D, v.86, 065025-(1-6) (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0086
abstract: We derive constraints on corrections to Newtonian gravity of the Yukawa type and light elementary particles from two recently performed measurements of the gradient of the Casimir force. In the first measurement the configuration of two Au surfaces has been used, whereas in the second a nonmagnetic metal Au interacted with a magnetic metal Ni. In these configurations one arrives at different, respectively, similar theoretical predictions for the Casimir force when the competing theoretical approaches are employed. Nevertheless, we demonstrate that the constraints following from both experiments are in mutual agreement and in line with constraints obtained from earlier measurements. This confirms the reliability of constraints on non-Newtonian gravity obtained from measurements of the Casimir force.

id: 1209.0099
title: Geometric phase and quantum phase transition in an inhomogeneous periodic XY spin-1/2 model
authors: Yu-Quan Ma, Shu Chen
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. As a backup of a previous work and some typos in the published version are fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022116 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0099
abstract: The notion of geometric phase has been recently introduced to analyze the quantum phase transitions of many-body systems from the geometrical perspective. In this work, we study the geometric phase of the ground state for an inhomogeneous period-two anisotropic XY model in a transverse field. This model encompasses a group of familiar spin models as its special cases and shows a richer critical behavior. The exact solution is obtained by mapping on a fermionic system through the Jordan-Wigner transformation and constructing the relevant canonical transformation to realize the diagonalization of the Hamiltonian coupled in the $k$-space. The results show that there may exist more than one quantum phase transition point at some parameter regions and these transition points correspond to the divergence or extremum properties of the Berry curvature.

id: 1209.0108
title: Metric Properties of the Fuzzy Sphere
authors: Francesco D'Andrea, Fedele Lizzi, Joseph C. Varilly
comments: Slightly shortened version, no major changes, two new references, version to appear on Letters in Mathematical Physics
journal: Lett.Math.Phys.103 (2013), 183-205
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0108
abstract: The fuzzy sphere, as a quantum metric space, carries a sequence of metrics which we describe in detail. We show that the Bloch coherent states, with these spectral distances, form a sequence of metric spaces that converge to the round sphere in the high-spin limit.

id: 1209.0115
title: An introduction to the spectrum, symmetries, and dynamics of spin-1/2 Heisenberg chains
authors: Kira Joel, Davida Kollmar, Lea F. Santos
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Am. J. Phys. 81, 450 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0115
abstract: Quantum spin chains are prototype quantum many-body systems. They are employed in the description of various complex physical phenomena. The goal of this paper is to provide an introduction to the subject by focusing on the time evolution of a Heisenberg spin-1/2 chain and interpreting the results based on the analysis of the eigenvalues, eigenstates, and symmetries of the system. We make available online all computer codes used to obtain our data.

id: 1209.0134
title: The Fantastic Four: A plug 'n' play set of optimal control pulses for enhancing nmr spectroscopy
authors: Manoj Nimbalkar, Burkhard Luy, Thomas E. Skinner, Jorge L. Neves, Naum I. Gershenzon, Kyryl Kobzar, Wolfgang Bermel, Steffen J. Glaser
comments: 28 pages, 19 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0134
abstract: We present highly robust, optimal control-based shaped pulses designed to replace all 90{\deg} and 180{\deg} hard pulses in a given pulse sequence for improved performance. Special attention was devoted to ensuring that the pulses can be simply substituted in a one-to-one fashion for the original hard pulses without any additional modification of the existing sequence. The set of four pulses for each nucleus therefore consists of 90{\deg} and 180{\deg} point-to-point (PP) and universal rotation (UR) pulses of identical duration. These 1 ms pulses provide uniform performance over resonance offsets of 20 kHz (1H) and 35 kHz (13C) and tolerate reasonably large radio frequency (RF) inhomogeneity/miscalibration of (+/-)15% (1H) and (+/-)10% (13C), making them especially suitable for NMR of small-to-medium-sized molecules (for which relaxation effects during the pulse are negligible) at an accessible and widely utilized spectrometer field strength of 600 MHz. The experimental performance of conventional hard-pulse sequences is shown to be greatly improved by incorporating the new pulses, each set referred to as the Fantastic Four (Fanta4).

id: 1209.0142
title: Ultra-Fast Physical Generation of Random Numbers Using Hybrid Boolean Networks
authors: David P. Rosin, Damien Rontani, Daniel J. Gauthier
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, accepted in Phys. Rev. E as a Rapid Communication
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 040902(R) (2013)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0142
abstract: We describe a high-speed physical random number generator based on a hybrid Boolean network with autonomous and clocked logic gates, realized on a reconfigurable chip. The autonomous logic gates are arranged in a bidirectional ring topology and generate broadband chaos. The clocked logic gates receive input from the autonomous logic gates so that random numbers are generated physically that pass standard randomness tests without further post-processing. The large number of logic gates on reconfigurable chips allows for parallel generation of random numbers, as demonstrated by our implementation of 128 physical random number generators that achieve a real-time bit rate of 12.8 Gbit/s.

id: 1209.0162
title: Non-perturbative theoretical description of two atoms in an optical lattice with time-dependent perturbations
authors: Philipp-Immanuel Schneider, Sergey Grishkevich, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0162
abstract: A theoretical approach for a non-perturbative dynamical description of two interacting atoms in an optical lattice potential is introduced. The approach builds upon the stationary eigenstates found by a procedure described in Grishkevich et al. [Phys. Rev. A 84, 062710 (2011)]. It allows presently to treat any time-dependent external perturbation of the lattice potential up to quadratic order. Example calculations of the experimentally relevant cases of an acceleration of the lattice and the turning-on of an additional harmonic confinement are presented.

id: 1209.0173
title: Entanglement in heterogeneous spin-$(1, \frac 12)$ and homogeneous spin-1 systems
authors: N. Askari, J. Abouie
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0173
abstract: We study the bipartite entanglement of two general classes of heterogeneous spin-($1,\frac 12$) and homogeneous spin-1 systems. By employing the spin correlation functions, we obtain the reduced two-spin density matrix (DM) and the negativity for these two classes of quantum spin models. We show explicitly that in addition to the one and two-point correlations, the triad and quad correlations ($t_{\alpha\beta}^{\delta}=\la S_{\alpha}S_{\beta}s_{\delta}\ra$ and $q_{\alpha\beta}^{\delta\gamma}=\la S_\alpha S_\beta s_\delta s_\gamma\ra$ where $\alpha, \beta, \delta, \gamma=\pm, z$) play crucial role in the bipartite entanglement between spins $s>1/2$. These correlations represent the spin $\frac 12$-quadrupole and quadrupole-quadrupole correlations, respectively. These correlations do not appear in the spin-$\frac 12$ models. Our results are general and applicable to the different several models of interest with higher reflectional, translational, spin-flip and U(1) symmetries. The entanglement of many attractive models are investigated.

id: 1209.0182
title: Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics, Engineered Hierarchies of Integrable Potentials, and the Generalised Laguerre Polynomials
authors: Daddy Balondo Iyela, Jan Govaerts, M. Norbert Hounkonnou
comments: 1+19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0182
abstract: Within the context of Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics and its related hierarchies of integrable quantum Hamiltonians and potentials, a general programme is outlined and applied to its first two simplest illustrations. Going beyond the usual restriction of shape invariance for intertwined potentials, it is suggested to require a similar relation for Hamiltonians in the hierarchy separated by an arbitrary number of levels, N. By requiring further that these two Hamiltonians be in fact identical up to an overall shift in energy, a periodic structure is installed in the hierarchy of quantum systems which should allow for its solution. Specific classes of orthogonal polynomials characteristic of such periodic hierarchies are thereby generated, while the methods of Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics then lead to generalised Rodrigues formulae and recursion relations for such polynomials. The approach also offers the practical prospect of quantum modelling through the engineering of quantum potentials from experimental energy spectra. In this paper these ideas are presented and solved explicitly for the cases N=1 and N=2. The latter case is related to the generalised Laguerre polynomials, for which indeed new results are thereby obtained. At the same time new classes of integrable quantum potentials which generalise that of the harmonic oscillator and which are characterised by two arbitrary energy gaps are identified, for which a complete solution is achieved algebraically.

id: 1209.0203
title: Nanoscale magnetic imaging of a single electron spin under ambient conditions
authors: M. S. Grinolds, S. Hong, P. Maletinsky, L. Luan, M. D. Lukin, R. L. Walsworth, A. Yacoby
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, 6 supplementary figures
journal: Nature Physics, 9, 215-219 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0203
abstract: The detection of ensembles of spins under ambient conditions has revolutionized the biological, chemical, and physical sciences through magnetic resonance imaging and nuclear magnetic resonance. Pushing sensing capabilities to the individual-spin level would enable unprecedented applications such as single molecule structural imaging; however, the weak magnetic fields from single spins are undetectable by conventional far-field resonance techniques. In recent years, there has been a considerable effort to develop nanoscale scanning magnetometers, which are able to measure fewer spins by bringing the sensor in close proximity to its target. The most sensitive of these magnetometers generally require low temperatures for operation, but measuring under ambient conditions (standard temperature and pressure) is critical for many imaging applications, particularly in biological systems. Here we demonstrate detection and nanoscale imaging of the magnetic field from a single electron spin under ambient conditions using a scanning nitrogen-vacancy (NV) magnetometer. Real-space, quantitative magnetic-field images are obtained by deterministically scanning our NV magnetometer 50 nanometers above a target electron spin, while measuring the local magnetic field using dynamically decoupled magnetometry protocols. This single-spin detection capability could enable single-spin magnetic resonance imaging of electron spins on the nano- and atomic scales and opens the door for unique applications such as mechanical quantum state transfer.

id: 1209.0209
title: Relativistic invariance of the vacuum
authors: Adam Bednorz
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, more about false reports of PRD Editors V.P. Nair and G.D. Sprouse at this http URL
journal: The European Physical Journal C 73: 2654 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0209
abstract: Relativistic invariance of the vacuum is (or follows from) one of the Wightman axioms which is commonly believed to be true. Without these axioms, here we present a direct and general proof of continuous relativistic invariance of all real-time vacuum correlations of fields, not only scattering (forward in time), based on closed time path formalism. The only assumptions are basic principles of relativistic quantum field theories: the relativistic invariance of the Lagrangian, of the form including known interactions (electromagnetic, weak and strong), and standard rules of quantization. The proof is in principle perturbative leaving a possibility of spontaneous violation of invariance. Time symmetry is however manifestly violated.

id: 1209.0292
title: Non-equilibrum dynamics in the strongly excited inhomogeneous Dicke model
authors: Christoph Str?ter, Oleksandr Tsyplyatyev, Alexandre Faribault
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, Phys. Rev. B in press
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 195101 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0292
abstract: Using the exact eigenstates of the inhomogeneous Dicke model obtained by numerically solving the Bethe equations, we study the decay of bosonic excitations due to the coupling of the mode to an ensemble of two-level (spin 1/2) systems. We compare the quantum time-evolution of the bosonic mode population with the mean field description which, for a few bosons agree up to a relatively long Ehrenfest time. We demonstrate that additional excitations lead to a dramatic shortening of the period of validity of the mean field analysis. However, even in the limit where the number of bosons equal the number of spins, the initial instability remains adequately described by the mean-field approach leading to a finite, albeit short, Ehrenfest time. Through finite size analysis, we also present indications that the mean field approach could still provide an adequate description for thermodynamically large systems even at long times. However, for mesoscopic systems one cannot expect it to capture the behavior beyond the initial decay stage in the limit of an extremely large number of excitations.

id: 1209.0316
title: Exact Spin and Pseudo-Spin Symmetric Solutions of the Dirac-Kratzer Problem with a tensor potential via Laplace Transform Approach
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 8 pages
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 27, 1250171 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0316
abstract: Exact bound state solutions of the Dirac equation for the Kratzer potential in the presence of a tensor potential are studied by using the Laplace transform approach for the cases of spin- and pseudo-spin symmetry. The energy spectra is obtained in the closed form for the relativistic as well as non-relativistic cases including the Coulomb potential. It is seen that our analytical results are in agrement with the ones given in literature. The numerical results are also given in a table for different parameter values.

id: 1209.0346
title: Thermodynamics of spin-orbit-coupled Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Jinling Lian, Yuanwei Zhang, J. -Q. Liang, Jie Ma, Gang Chen, Suotang Jia
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0346
abstract: In this paper we develop a quantum field approach to reveal the thermodynamic properties of the trapped BEC with the equal Rashba and Dresselhaus spin-orbit couplings. In the experimentally-feasible regime, the phase transition from the separate phase to the single minimum phase can be well driven by the tunable temperature. Moreover, the critical temperature, which is independent of the trapped potential, can be derived exactly. At the critical point, the specific heat has a large jump and can be thus regarded as a promising candidate to detect this temperature-driven phase transition. In addition, we obtain the analytical expressions for the specific heat and the entropy in the different phases. In the single minimum phase, the specific heat as well as the entropy are governed only by the Rabi frequency. However, in the separate phase with lower temperature, we find that they are determined only by the strength of spin-orbit coupling. Finally, the effect of the effective atom interaction is also addressed. In the separate phase, this effective atom interaction affects dramatically on the critical temperature and the corresponding thermodynamic properties.

id: 1209.0355
title: Cascaded four-wave mixing in tapered plasmonic nanoantenna
authors: I. S. Maksymov, A. E. Miroshnichenko, Yu. S. Kivshar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0355
abstract: We study theoretically the cascaded four-wave mixing (FWM) in broadband tapered plasmonic nanoantennas and demonstrate a 300-fold increase in nonlinear frequency conversion detected in the main lobe of the nanoantenna far-field pattern. This is achieved by tuning the elements of the nanoantenna to resonate frequencies involved into the FWM interaction. Our findings have a potentially broad application in ultrafast nonlinear spectroscopy, sensing, on-chip optical frequency conversion, nonlinear optical metamaterials and photon sources.

id: 1209.0369
title: Noninertial effects on the Dirac oscillator in a topological defect spacetime
authors: Knut Bakke
comments: 13 pages, no figure
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus 127, 82 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0369
abstract: In this paper, we study the influence of noninertial effects on the Dirac oscillator in the cosmic string spacetime background. We discuss the behaviour of the oscillator frequency in a noninertial system that allows us to obtain relativistic bound state solutions. We also discuss the influence of the topology of the cosmic string spacetime on the relativistic energy levels, and obtain the Dirac spinors for positive-energy solutions. Furthermore, by taking the nonrelativistic limit of the energy levels, we compare the nonrelativistic energy levels to the confinement of a spin-half particle to quantum dot described by the Tan-Inkson model for a quantum dot [W.-C. Tan and J. C. Inkson, Semicond. Sci. Technol. 11, 1635 (1996)], and a hard-wall confining potential [E. Tsitsishvili et al., Phys. Rev. B 70, 115316 (2004)].

id: 1209.0373
title: Statistical properties of power-law random banded unitary matrices in the delocalization-localization transition regime
authors: Jayendra N. Bandyopadhyay, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 10 pages + 13 figs
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0373
abstract: Power-law random banded unitary matrices (PRBUM), whose matrix elements decay in a power-law fashion, were recently proposed to model the critical statistics of the Floquet eigenstates of periodically driven quantum systems. In this work, we numerically study in detail the statistical properties of PRBUM ensembles in the delocalization-localization transition regime. In particular, implications of the delocalization-localization transition for the fractal dimension of the eigenvectors, for the distribution function of the eigenvector components, and for the nearest neighbor spacing statistics of the eigenphases are examined. On the one hand, our results further indicate that a PRBUM ensemble can serve as a unitary analog of the power-law random Hermitian matrix model for Anderson transition. On the other hand, some statistical features unseen before are found from PRBUM. For example, the dependence of the fractal dimension of the eigenvectors of PRBUM upon one ensemble parameter displays features that are quite different from that for the power-law random Hermitian matrix model. Furthermore, in the time-reversal symmetric case the nearest neighbor spacing distribution of PRBUM eigenphases is found to obey a semi-Poisson distribution for a broad range, but display an anomalous level repulsion in the absence of time-reversal symmetry.

id: 1209.0380
title: In-Situ Dual-Port Polarization Contrast Imaging of Faraday Rotation in a High Optical Depth Ultracold 87Rb Atomic Ensemble
authors: Franziska Kaminski, Nir S. Kampel, Mads P. H. Steenstrup, Axel Griesmaier, Eugene S. Polzik, J?rg H. M¨¹ller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0380
abstract: We study the effects of high optical depth and density on the performance of a light-atom quantum interface. An in-situ imaging method, a dual-port polarization contrast technique, is presented. This technique is able to compensate for image distortions due to refraction. We propose our imaging method as a tool to characterize atomic ensembles for high capacity spatial multimode quantum memories. Ultracold dense inhomogeneous Rubidium samples are imaged and we find a resonant optical depth as high as 680 on the D1 line. The measurements are compared with light-atom interaction models based on Maxwell-Bloch equations. We find that an independent atom assumption is insufficient to explain our data and present corrections due to resonant dipole-dipole interactions.

id: 1209.0428
title: Quantization of Reissner-Nordstr?m Black Holes and Their Non-Singular Quantum Behavior
authors: Mojtaba Taslimi Tehran, Hoshang Heydari
comments: To be published in the proceeding of Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations-6 (QTRF-6)
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0428
abstract: Quantization of different regions of the Reissner-Nordstr\"{o}m space time (charged black hole) is done in the framework of loop quantum gravity. The geometry of Reissner-Nordstr\"{o}m space-time is expressed in terms of Ashtekar variables which form the classical phase space of such a black hole. Using the loop quantization of phase space, the issue of singularity avoidance of such a black hole is addressed; based on spherically symmetry reduced models of loop quantum gravity, the operator analogue of the diverging factor of scalar curvature of the charged black hole is constructed and is shown to exhibit an upper bounded spectrum. This local criterion, together with the global one (non-singular quantum evolution equation) proves the avoidance of charged black hole singularity in symmetry reduced models of loop quantum gravity.

id: 1209.0437
title: Generation of Mapping Cones from Small Sets
authors: Nathaniel Johnston, ?ukasz Skowronek, Erling St?rmer
comments: 18 pages
journal: Linear Algebra and Its Applications, 438:3062-3075, 2013
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0437
abstract: We answer in the affirmative a recently-posed question that asked if there exists an "untypical" convex mapping cone -- i.e., one that does not arise from the transpose map and the cones of k-positive and k-superpositive maps. We explicitly construct such a cone based on atomic positive maps. Our general technique is to consider the smallest convex mapping cone generated by a single map, and we derive several results on such mapping cones. We use this technique to also present several other examples of untypical mapping cones, including a family of cones generated by spin factors. We also provide a full characterization of mapping cones generated by single elements in the qubit case in terms of their typicality.

id: 1209.0454
title: Projected Entangled Pair States at Finite Temperature: Imaginary Time Evolution with Ancillas
authors: Piotr Czarnik, Lukasz Cincio, Jacek Dziarmaga
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures; version accepted to publication in Phys. Rev. B; added new numerical results and references
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 245101 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0454
abstract: A projected entangled pair state (PEPS) with ancillas is evolved in imaginary time. This tensor network represents a thermal state of a 2D lattice quantum system. A finite temperature phase diagram of the 2D quantum Ising model in a transverse field is obtained as a benchmark application.

id: 1209.0493
title: Temperature dependent graphene suspension due to thermal Casimir interaction
authors: Anh D. Phan, Lilia M. Woods, D. Drosdoff, I. V. Bondarev, N. A. Viet
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, in APL production 2012
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0493
abstract: Thermal effects contributing to the Casimir interaction between objects are usually small at room temperature and they are difficult to separate from quantum mechanical contributions at higher temperatures. We propose that the thermal Casimir force effect can be observed for a graphene flake suspended in a fluid between substrates at the room temperature regime. The properly chosen materials for the substrates and fluid induce a Casimir repulsion. The balance with the other forces, such as gravity and buoyancy, results in a stable temperature dependent equilibrium separation. The suspended graphene is a promising system due to its potential for observing thermal Casimir effects at room temperature.

id: 1209.0535
title: Spectral singularity and non-Hermitian PT-symmetric extension of $A_{N-1}$ type Calogero model without confining potential
authors: Bhabani Prasad Mandal, Ananya Ghatak
comments: 10 pages, Latex, No figs, Version to appear J. Phys A: Math. Theor. (Special issue)
journal: J. Phys A : Math & Gen. 45, 444022 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0535
abstract: We consider non-Hermitian PT-symmetric deformation of $A_{N-1}$ type Calogero model without confining potential to investigate the possible existence of spectral singularity. By considering the Wronskian between asymptotic incoming and outgoing scattering state wave functions, we found that there exist no spectral singularity in this model. We further explicitly show that the transmission coefficient vanishes and the reflection coefficient becomes unity for all values of the energy in such a momentum dependent non-Hermitian PT-symmetric model.

id: 1209.0657
title: Bright solitons in defocusing media with spatial modulation of the quintic nonlinearity
authors: Jianhua Zeng, Boris A. Malomed
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, Physical Review E, in press
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 036607 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0657
abstract: It has been recently demonstrated that self-defocusing (SDF) media with the cubic nonlinearity, whose local coefficient grows from the center to periphery fast enough, support stable bright solitons, without the use of any linear potential. Our objective is to test the genericity of this mechanism for other nonlinearities, by applying it to one- and two-dimensional (1D and 2D) quintic SDF media. The models may be implemented in optics (in particular, in colloidal suspensions of nanoparticles), and the 1D model may be applied to the description of the Tonks-Girardeau gas of ultracold bosons. In 1D, the nonlinearity-modulation function is taken as $% g_{0}+\sinh ^{2}(\beta x) $. This model admits a subfamily of exact solutions for fundamental solitons. Generic \ soliton solutions are constructed in a numerical form, and also by means of the Thomas-Fermi and variational approximations (TFA and VA). In particular, a new ansatz for the VA is proposed, in the form of "raised $\mathrm{sech}$", which provides for an essentially better accuracy than the usual Gaussian ansatz. The stability of all the fundamental (nodeless) 1D solitons is established through the computation of the corresponding eigenvalues for small perturbations, and also verified by direct simulations. Higher-order 1D solitons with two nodes have a limited stability region, all the modes with more than two nodes being unstable. It is concluded that the recently proposed "anti-VK" stability criterion for fundamental bright solitons in systems with SDF nonlinearities holds here too. Particular exact solutions for 2D solitons are produced as well.

id: 1209.0704
title: Sub-barrier Coulomb effects on the interference pattern in tunneling ionization photoelectron spectra
authors: Tian-Min Yan, D. Bauer
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0704
abstract: We use a quantum trajectory-based semi-classical method to account for Coulomb interaction between the photoelectron and the parent ion in the classically forbidden, sub-barrier region during strong-field tunneling ionization processes. We show that---besides the well-known modification of the tunneling ionization probability---there is also an influence on the interference pattern in the photoelectron spectra. In the long-wavelength limit, the shift of the intra-cycle interference fringes caused by sub-barrier Coulomb effects in the laser polarization direction can be derived analytically. We compare our results with \emph{ab initio} solutions of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation and find good agreement in the long-wavelength regime, whereas the standard strong field approximation fails. We show that the nodal structure along low-order above-threshold ionization rings is also affected by sub-barrier Coulomb effects.

id: 1209.0747
title: Entanglement in systems of oscillators and quantum computations
authors: Yuri I. Ozhigov
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0747
abstract: It is shown that quantum devices based only on oscillators cannot serve as the universal quantum computer, despite of entanglement in such devices, which we roughly estimate for the ideal case and for the harmful entanglement with photonic modes. We show that quasi-particles are the native shell for the entanglement already for ground state, in contast to the free electromagnetic field where vacuum state does not produce entanglement at all.

id: 1209.0769
title: Entanglement sum rules in exactly solvable models
authors: Brian Swingle
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0769
abstract: We compute the entanglement entropy of a wide class of exactly solvable models which may be characterized as describing matter coupled to gauge fields. Our principle result is an entanglement sum rule which states that entropy of the full system is the sum of the entropies of the two components. In the context of the exactly solvable models we consider, this result applies to the full entropy, but more generally it is a statement about the additivity of universal terms in the entropy. We also prove that the Renyi entropy is exactly additive and hence that the entanglement spectrum factorizes. Our proof simultaneously extends and simplifies previous arguments, with extensions including new models at zero temperature as well as the ability to treat finite temperature crossovers. We emphasize that while the additivity is an exact statement, each term in the sum may still be difficult to compute. Our results apply to a wide variety of phases including Fermi liquids, spin liquids, and some non-Fermi liquid metals.

id: 1209.0774
title: Relaxation oscillations, stability, and cavity feedback in a superradiant Raman laser
authors: Justin G. Bohnet, Zilong Chen, Joshua M. Weiner, Kevin C. Cox, James K. Thompson
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 253602 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0774
abstract: We experimentally study the relaxation oscillations and amplitude stability properties of an optical laser operating deep into the bad-cavity regime using a laser-cooled $^{87}$Rb Raman laser. By combining measurements of the laser light field with nondemolition measurements of the atomic populations, we infer the response of the gain medium represented by a collective atomic Bloch vector. The results are qualitatively explained with a simple model. Measurements and theory are extended to include the effect of intermediate repumping states on the closed-loop stability of the oscillator and the role of cavity feedback on stabilizing or enhancing relaxation oscillations. This experimental study of the stability of an optical laser operating deep into the bad-cavity regime will guide future development of superradiant lasers with ultranarrow linewidths.

id: 1209.0787
title: Bragg solitons in nonlinear PT-symmetric periodic potentials
authors: Mohammad-Ali Miri, Alejandro B. Aceves, Tsampikos Kottos, Vassilios Kovanis, Demetrios N. Christodoulides
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, published in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033801 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0787
abstract: It is shown that slow Bragg soliton solutions are possible in nonlinear complex parity-time (PT) symmetric periodic structures. Analysis indicates that the PT-symmetric component of the periodic optical refractive index can modify the grating band structure and hence the effective coupling between the forward and backward waves. Starting from a classical modified massive Thirring model, solitary wave solutions are obtained in closed form. The basic properties of these slow solitary waves and their dependence on their respective PT-symmetric gain/loss profile are then explored via numerical simulations.

id: 1209.0881
title: A Potential Foundation for Emergent Space-Time
authors: Kevin H. Knuth, Newshaw Bahreyni
comments: The paper was originally titled "The Physics of Events: A Potential Foundation for Emergent Space-Time". We changed the title (and abstract) to be more direct when the paper was accepted for publication at the Journal of Mathematical Physics. 24 pages, 15 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 55, 112501
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0881
abstract: We present a novel derivation of both the Minkowski metric and Lorentz transformations from the consistent quantification of a causally ordered set of events with respect to an embedded observer. Unlike past derivations, which have relied on assumptions such as the existence of a 4-dimensional manifold, symmetries of space-time, or the constant speed of light, we demonstrate that these now familiar mathematics can be derived as the unique means to consistently quantify a network of events. This suggests that space-time need not be physical, but instead the mathematics of space and time emerges as the unique way in which an observer can consistently quantify events and their relationships to one another. The result is a potential foundation for emergent space-time.

id: 1209.0920
title: Optical measurement and modeling of interactions between two hole or two electron spins in coupled InAs quantum dots
authors: Alex Greilich, ?tefan C. B?descu, Danny Kim, Allan S. Bracker, Daniel Gammon
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 117402 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.0920
abstract: Two electron spins in quantum dots coupled through coherent tunneling are generally acknowledged to approximately obey Heisenberg isotropic exchange. This has not been established for two holes. Here we measure the spectra of two holes and of two electrons in two vertically stacked self-assembled InAs quantum dots using optical spectroscopy as a function of electric and magnetic fields. We find that the exchange is approximately isotropic for both systems, but that significant asymmetric contributions, arising from spin-orbit and Zeeman interactions combined with spatial asymmetries, are required to explain large anticrossings and fine-structure energy splittings in the spectra. Asymmetric contributions to the isotropic Hamiltonian for electrons are of the order of a few percent while those for holes are an order of magnitude larger.

id: 1209.1000
title: Fourth order perturbative expansion for the Casimir energy with a slightly deformed plate
authors: C. D. Fosco, F. C. Lombardo, F. D. Mazzitelli
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1000
abstract: We apply a perturbative approach to evaluate the Casimir energy for a massless real scalar field in 3+1 dimensions, subject to Dirichlet boundary conditions on two surfaces. One of the surfaces is assumed to be flat, while the other corresponds to a small deformation, described by a single function $\eta$, of a flat mirror. The perturbative expansion is carried out up to the fourth order in the deformation $\eta$, and the results are applied to the calculation of the Casimir energy for corrugated mirrors in front of a plane. We also reconsider the proximity force approximation within the context of this expansion.

id: 1209.1020
title: An error accounting algorithm for electron counting experiments
authors: Michael Wulf
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Builds on and extends white paper arXiv:0811.3927
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1020
abstract: Electron counting experiments attempt to provide a current of a known number of electrons per unit time. We propose architectures utilizing a few readily available electron-pumps or turnstiles with modest error rates of 1 part per $10^4$ with common sensitive electrometers to achieve the desirable accuracy of 1 part in $10^8$. This is achieved not by counting all transferred electrons but by counting only the errors of individual devices; these are less frequent and therefore readily recognized and accounted for. Our proposal thereby eases the route towards quantum based standards for current and capacitance.

id: 1209.1053
title: Revealing the Condensate and Non-Condensate Distributions in the Inhomogeneous Bose-Hubbard Model
authors: Ushnish Ray, David M. Ceperley
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1053
abstract: We calculate the condensate fraction and the condensate and non-condensate spatial and momentum distribution of the Bose-Hubbard model in a trap. From our results, it is evident that using approximate distributions can lead to erroneous experimental estimates of the condensate. Strong interactions cause the condensate to develop pedestal-like structures around the central peak that can be mistaken as non-condensate atoms. Near the transition temperature, the peak itself can include a significant non-condensate component. Using distributions generated from QMC simulations, experiments can map their measurements for higher accuracy in identifying phase transitions and temperature.

id: 1209.1079
title: Dynamics of waves in 1D electron systems: Density oscillations driven by population inversion
authors: I. V. Protopopov, D. B. Gutman, P. Schmitteckert, A. D. Mirlin
comments: 20 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 045112, (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1079
abstract: We explore dynamics of a density pulse induced by a local quench in a one-dimensional electron system. The spectral curvature leads to an "overturn" (population inversion) of the wave. We show that beyond this time the density profile develops strong oscillations with a period much larger than the Fermi wave length. The effect is studied first for the case of free fermions by means of direct quantum simulations and via semiclassical analysis of the evolution of Wigner function. We demonstrate then that the period of oscillations is correctly reproduced by a hydrodynamic theory with an appropriate dispersive term. Finally, we explore the effect of different types of electron-electron interaction on the phenomenon. We show that sufficiently strong interaction [$U(r)\gg 1/mr^2$ where $m$ is the fermionic mass and $r$ the relevant spatial scale] determines the dominant dispersive term in the hydrodynamic equations. Hydrodynamic theory reveals crucial dependence of the density evolution on the relative sign of the interaction and the density perturbation.

id: 1209.1126
title: Measuring topology in a laser-coupled honeycomb lattice: From Chern insulators to topological semi-metals
authors: N. Goldman, E. Anisimovas, F. Gerbier, P. Ohberg, I. B. Spielman, G. Juzeliunas
comments: 30 pages, 12 figures, 4 Appendices
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 013025 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1126
abstract: Ultracold fermions trapped in a honeycomb optical lattice constitute a versatile setup to experimentally realize the Haldane model [Phys. Rev. Lett. 61, 2015 (1988)]. In this system, a non-uniform synthetic magnetic flux can be engineered through laser-induced methods, explicitly breaking time-reversal symmetry. This potentially opens a bulk gap in the energy spectrum, which is associated with a non-trivial topological order, i.e., a non-zero Chern number. In this work, we consider the possibility of producing and identifying such a robust Chern insulator in the laser-coupled honeycomb lattice. We explore a large parameter space spanned by experimentally controllable parameters and obtain a variety of phase diagrams, clearly identifying the accessible topologically non-trivial regimes. We discuss the signatures of Chern insulators in cold-atom systems, considering available detection methods. We also highlight the existence of topological semi-metals in this system, which are gapless phases characterized by non-zero winding numbers, not present in Haldane's original model.

id: 1209.1152
title: Operator systems from discrete groups
authors: Douglas Farenick, Ali S. Kavruk, Vern I. Paulsen, Ivan G. Todorov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1152
abstract: We formulate a general framework for the study of operator systems arising from discrete groups. We study in detail the operator system of the free group on $n$ generators, as well as the operator systems of the free products of finitely many copies of the two-element group $\mathbb Z_2$. We examine various tensor products of group operator systems, including the minimal, the maximal, and the commuting tensor products. We introduce a new tensor product in the category of operator systems and formulate necessary and sufficient conditions for its equality to the commuting tensor product in the case of group operator systems. We express various sets of quantum correlations studied in the theoretical physics literature in terms of different tensor products of operator systems of discrete groups. We thus recover earlier results of Tsirelson and formulate a new approach for the study of quantum correlation boxes.

id: 1209.1185
title: Characterization of point transformations in quantum mechanics
authors: Yoshio Ohnuki, Shuji Watanabe
comments: The addresses on the paper are the former ones
journal: Journal of Analysis and Applications, Vol.1 (2003), pp.193-205
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1185
abstract: We characterize point transformations in quantum mechanics from the mathematical viewpoint. To conclude that the canonical variables given by each point transformation in quantum mechanics correctly describe the extended point transformation, we show that they are all selfadjoint operators in $L^2(\mathbb{R}^n)$ and that the continuous spectrum of each coincides with $\mathbb{R}$. They are also shown to satisfy the canonical commutation relations.

id: 1209.1226
title: Reverse quantum state engineering using electronic feedback loops
authors: Gerold Kiesslich, Clive Emary, Gernot Schaller, Tobias Brandes
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures, to be published by New Journal of Physics (2013)
journal: New. J. Phys. 14, 123036 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1226
abstract: We propose an all-electronic technique to manipulate and control interacting quantum systems by unitary single-jump feedback conditioned on the outcome of a capacitively coupled electrometer and in particular a single-electron transistor. We provide a general scheme to stabilize pure states in the quantum system and employ an effective Hamiltonian method for the quantum master equation to elaborate on the nature of stabilizable states and the conditions under which state purification can be achieved. The state engineering within the quantum feedback scheme is shown to be linked with the solution of an inverse eigenvalue problem. Two applications of the feedback scheme are presented in detail: (i) stabilization of delocalized pure states in a single charge qubit and (ii) entanglement stabilization in two coupled charge qubits. In the latter example we demonstrate the stabilization of a maximally entangled Bell state for certain detector positions and local feedback operations.

id: 1209.1258
title: Correlated exponential functions in high precision calculations for diatomic molecules
authors: Krzysztof Pachucki
comments: 26 pages, includes two tables with exemplary calculations
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052514 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1258
abstract: Various properties of the general two-center two-electron integral over the explicitly correlated exponential function are analyzed for the potential use in high precision calculations for diatomic molecules. A compact one dimensional integral representation is found, which is suited for the numerical evaluation. Together with recurrence relations, it makes possible the calculation of the two-center two-electron integral with arbitrary powers of electron distances. Alternative approach via the Taylor series in the internuclear distance is also investigated. Although numerically slower, it can be used in cases when recurrences lose stability. Separate analysis is devoted to molecular integrals with integer powers of interelectronic distances $r_{12}$ and the vanishing corresponding nonlinear parameter. Several methods of their evaluation are proposed.

id: 1209.1315
title: Path Integrals in Quantum Physics
authors: R. Rosenfelder
comments: 183 pages (in German), 28 figures, Latex with amsmath, amssym; v2: typos corrected, chapters 1.7 and 2.3 expanded, 187 pages (in German), 29 figures
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1315
abstract: These lectures aim at giving graduate students an introduction to and a working knowledge of path integral methods in a wide variety of fields in physics. Consequently, the lecture notes are organized in three main parts dealing with non-relativistic quantum mechanics, many-body physics and field theory. In the first part the basic concepts of path integrals are developed in the usual heuristic, non-mathematical way followed by standard examples and special applications including numerical evaluation of (euclidean) path integrals by Monte-Carlo methods with a program for the anharmonic oscillator. The second part deals with the application of path integrals in statistical mechanics and many-body problems treating the polaron problem, dissipative quantum systems, path integrals over ordinary and Grassmannian coherent states and perturbation theory for both bosons and fermions. Again a simple Fortran program is included for illustrating the use of strong-coupling methods. Finally, in the third part path integrals in relativistic quantum field theory are discussed. Standard topics like the generating functional for Green functions, perturbative expansions, effective actions and quantization of gauge theories are treated as well as special applications (the worldline formalism, spin in relativistic path integrals and the derivation of anomalies by path integral methods). The last section tries to give a simple introduction into lattice (gauge) field theory including a numerical example which can be run on a PC. The set of problems which accompanied the lectures is also included in the present notes.

id: 1209.1336
title: Detection of Weak Force using a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Sonam Mahajan, Tarun Kumar, Aranya B Bhattacherjee, ManMohan
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1336
abstract: We investigate the possibility of detecting a weak coherent force by means of a hybrid optomechanical quantum device formed by a Bose Einstein Condensate (BEC) confined in a high quality factor optical cavity with an oscillatory end mirror. We show using the stochastic cooling technique that the atomic two-body interaction can be utilized to cool the mirror and achieve position squeezing essential for making sensitive measurements of weak forces. We further show that the atomic two-body interaction can also increase the signal to noise ratio (SNR) and decrease the noise of the off-resonant stationary spectral measurements.

id: 1209.1419
title: Limit theorems for open quantum random walks
authors: Norio Konno, Hyun Jae Yoo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1419
abstract: We consider the limit distributions of open quantum random walks on one-dimensional lattice space. We introduce a dual process to the original quantum walk process, which is quite similar to the relation of Schr\"odinger-Heisenberg representation in quantum mechanics. By this, we can compute the distribution of the open quantum random walks concretely for many examples and thereby we can also obtain the limit distributions of them. In particular, it is possible to get rid of the initial state when we consider the evolution of the walk, it appears only in the last step of the computation.

id: 1209.1510
title: Suppression of Zeeman gradients by nuclear polarization in double quantum dots
authors: S. M. Frolov, J. Danon, S. Nadj-Perge, K. Zuo, J. W. W. van Tilburg, V. S. Pribiag, J. W. G. van den Berg, E. P. A. M. Bakkers, L. P. Kouwenhoven
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1510
abstract: We use electric dipole spin resonance to measure dynamic nuclear polarization in InAs nanowire quantum dots. The resonance shifts in frequency when the system transitions between metastable high and low current states, indicating the presence of nuclear polarization. We propose that the low and the high current states correspond to different total Zeeman energy gradients between the two quantum dots. In the low current state, dynamic nuclear polarization efficiently compensates the Zeeman gradient due to the $g$-factor mismatch, resulting in a suppressed total Zeeman gradient. We present a theoretical model of electron-nuclear feedback that demonstrates a fixed point in nuclear polarization for nearly equal Zeeman splittings in the two dots and predicts a narrowed hyperfine gradient distribution.

id: 1209.1514
title: Coupling carbon nanotube mechanics to a superconducting circuit
authors: B. H. Schneider, S. Etaki, H. S. J. van der Zant, G. A. Steele
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 2, 599 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1514
abstract: The quantum behaviour of mechanical resonators is a new and emerging field driven by recent experiments reaching the quantum ground state. The high frequency, small mass, and large quality-factor of carbon nanotube resonators make them attractive for quantum nanomechanical applications. A common element in experiments achieving the resonator ground state is a second quantum system, such as coherent photons or superconducting device, coupled to the resonators motion. For nanotubes, however, this is a challenge due to their small size. Here, we couple a carbon nanoelectromechanical (NEMS) device to a superconducting circuit. Suspended carbon nanotubes act as both superconducting junctions and moving elements in a Superconducting Quantum Interference Device (SQUID). We observe a strong modulation of the flux through the SQUID from displacements of the nanotube. Incorporating this SQUID into superconducting resonators and qubits should enable the detection and manipulation of nanotube mechanical quantum states at the single-phonon level.

id: 1209.1548
title: Self-sustained current oscillations in spin-blockaded quantum dots
authors: B. Hu, X. R. Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1548
abstract: Self-sustained current oscillation observed in spin-blockaded double quantum dots is explained as a consequence of periodic motion of dynamically polarized nuclear spins (along a limit cycle) in the spin-blockaded regime under an external magnetic field and a spin-transfer torque. It is shown, based on the Landau-Lifshtz-Gilbert equation, that a sequence of semistable limit cycle, Hopf and homoclinic bifurcations occurs as the external field is tuned. The divergent period near the homoclinic bifurcation explains well why the period in the experiment is so long and varies by many orders of magnitudes.

id: 1209.1600
title: Line of Dirac monopoles embedded in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: G. J. Conduit
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 021605(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1600
abstract: The gauge field of a uniform line of magnetic monopoles is created using a single Laguerre-Gauss laser mode and a gradient in the physical magnetic field. We study the effect of these monopoles on a Bose condensed atomic gas, whose vortex structure transforms when more than six monopoles are trapped within the cloud. Finally, we study this transition with the collective modes.

id: 1209.1674
title: Excitation of superconducting qubits from hot non-equilibrium quasiparticles
authors: J. Wenner, Yi Yin, Erik Lucero, R. Barends, Yu Chen, B. Chiaro, J. Kelly, M. Lenander, Matteo Mariantoni, A. Megrant, C. Neill, P. J. J. O'Malley, D. Sank, A. Vainsencher, H. Wang, T. C. White, A. N. Cleland, John M. Martinis
comments: Main paper: 5 pages, 5 figures. Supplement: 1 page, 1 figure, 1 table. Updated to user-prepared accepted version. Key changes: Supplement added, Introduction rewritten, Figs.2,3,5 revised, Fig.4 added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 150502 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1674
abstract: Superconducting qubits probe environmental defects such as non-equilibrium quasiparticles, an important source of decoherence. We show that "hot" non-equilibrium quasiparticles, with energies above the superconducting gap, affect qubits differently from quasiparticles at the gap, implying qubits can probe the dynamic quasiparticle energy distribution. For hot quasiparticles, we predict a non-neligable increase in the qubit excited state probability P_e. By injecting hot quasiparticles into a qubit, we experimentally measure an increase of P_e in semi-quantitative agreement with the model and rule out the typically assumed thermal distribution.

id: 1209.1724
title: Weak and Strong coupling regimes in plasmonic-QED
authors: T. H¨¹mmer, F. J. Garc¨ªa-Vidal, L. Mart¨ªn-Moreno, D. Zueco
comments: published as Phys. Rev. B 87, 115419 (2013)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 115419 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1724
abstract: We present a quantum theory for the interaction of a two level emitter with surface plasmon polaritons confined in single-mode waveguide resonators. Based on the Green's function approach, we develop the conditions for the weak and strong coupling regimes by taking into account the sources of dissipation and decoherence: radiative and non-radiative decays, internal loss processes in the emitter, as well as propagation and leakage losses of the plasmons in the resonator. The theory is supported by numerical calculations for several quantum emitters, GaAs and CdSe quantum dots and NV centers together with different types of resonators constructed of hybrid, cylindrical or wedge waveguides. We further study the role of temperature and resonator length. Assuming realistic leakage rates, we find the existence of an optimal length at which strong coupling is possible. Our calculations show that the strong coupling regime in plasmonic resonators is accessible within current technology when working at very low temperatures (<4K). In the weak coupling regime our theory accounts for recent experimental results. By further optimization we find highly enhanced spontaneous emission with Purcell factors over 1000 at room temperature for NV-centers. We finally discuss more applications for quantum nonlinear optics and plasmon-plasmon interactions.

id: 1209.1747
title: Correlation femtoscopy of small systems
authors: Yu.M. Sinyukov, V.M. Shapoval
comments: 34 pages, 5 figures. In the version 4 some stylistic improvements were made, some misprints were corrected. The results and conclusions are not changed
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 094024 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1747
abstract: The basic principles of the correlation femtoscopy, including its correspondence to the Hanbury Brown and Twiss intensity interferometry, are re-examined. The main subject of the paper is an analysis of the correlation femtoscopy when the source size is as small as the order of the uncertainty limit. It is about 1 fm for the current high energy experiments. Then the standard femtoscopy model of random sources is inapplicable. The uncertainty principle leads to the partial indistinguishability and coherence of closely located emitters that affect the observed femtoscopy scales. In thermal systems the role of corresponding coherent length is taken by the thermal de Broglie wavelength that also defines the size of a single emitter. The formalism of partially coherent phases in the amplitudes of closely located individual emitters is used for the quantitative analysis. The general approach is illustrated analytically for the case of the Gaussian approximation for emitting sources. A reduction of the interferometry radii and a suppression of the Bose-Einstein correlation functions for small sources due to the uncertainty principle are found. There is a positive correlation between the source size and the intercept of the correlation function. The peculiarities of the non-femtoscopic correlations caused by minijets and fluctuations of the initial states of the systems formed in $pp$ and $e^+e^-$ collisions are also analyzed. The factorization property for the contributions of femtoscopic and non-femtoscopic correlations into complete correlation function is observed in numerical calculations in a wide range of the model parameters.

id: 1209.1781
title: Multiplexed dispersive readout of superconducting phase qubits
authors: Yu Chen, D. Sank, P. O'Malley, T. White, R. Barends, B. Chiaro, J. Kelly, E. Lucero, M. Mariantoni, A. Megrant, C. Neill, A. Vainsencher, J. Wenner, Yi Yin, A. N. Cleland, John M. Martinis
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1781
abstract: We introduce a frequency-multiplexed readout scheme for superconducting phase qubits. Using a quantum circuit with four phase qubits, we couple each qubit to a separate lumped-element superconducting readout resonator, with the readout resonators connected in parallel to a single measurement line. The readout resonators and control electronics are designed so that all four qubits can be read out simultaneously using frequency multiplexing on the one measurement line. This technology provides a highly efficient and compact means for reading out multiple qubits, a significant advantage for scaling up to larger numbers of qubits.

id: 1209.1813
title: Galois Automorphisms of a Symmetric Measurement
authors: D. M. Appleby, Hulya Yadsan-Appleby, Gerhard Zauner
comments: 45 pages. Version 2: Minor corrections plus link to website with exact fiducials
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1813
abstract: Symmetric Informationally Complete Positive Operator Valued Measures (usually referred to as SIC-POVMs or simply as SICS) have been constructed in every dimension up to 67. However, a proof that they exist in every finite dimension has yet to be constructed. In this paper we examine the Galois group of SICs covariant with respect to the Weyl-Heisenberg group (or WH SICs as we refer to them). The great majority (though not all) of the known examples are of this type. Scott and Grassl have noted that every known exact WH SIC is expressible in radicals (except for dimension 3 which is exceptional in this and several other respects), which means that the corresponding Galois group is solvable. They have also calculated the Galois group for most known exact examples. The purpose of this paper is to take the analysis of Scott and Grassl further. We first prove a number of theorems regarding the structure of the Galois group and the relation between it and the extended Clifford group. We then examine the Galois group for the known exact fiducials and on the basis of this we propose a list of nine conjectures concerning its structure. These conjectures represent a considerable strengthening of the theorems we have actually been able to prove. Finally we generalize the concept of an anti-unitary to the concept of a g-unitary, and show that every WH SIC fiducial is an eigenvector of a family of g-unitaries (apart from dimension 3).

id: 1209.1847
title: A global, dynamical formulation of quantum confined systems
authors: Nuno Costa Dias, Jo?o Nuno Prata
comments: 7 pages, latex file, published version
journal: Proceedings of the Estonian Academy of Sciences (2010) 59,4, 290-293
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1847
abstract: A brief review of some recent results on the global self-adjoint formulation of systems with boundaries is presented. We specialize to the 1-dimensional case and obtain a dynamical formulation of quantum confinement.

id: 1209.1849
title: A pseudo-differential calculus on non-standard symplectic space; spectral and regularity results in modulation spaces
authors: Nuno Costa Dias, Maurice de Gosson, Franz Luef, Jo?o Nuno Prata
comments: 32 pages, latex file, published version
journal: J. Math. Pures Appl. 96 (2011) 423-445
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1849
abstract: The usual Weyl calculus is intimately associated with the choice of the standard symplectic structure on $\mathbb{R}^{n}\oplus\mathbb{R}^{n}$. In this paper we will show that the replacement of this structure by an arbitrary symplectic structure leads to a pseudo-differential calculus of operators acting on functions or distributions defined, not on $\mathbb{R}^{n}$ but rather on $\mathbb{R}^{n}\oplus\mathbb{R}^{n}$. These operators are intertwined with the standard Weyl pseudo-differential operators using an infinite family of partial isometries of $L^{2}(\mathbb{R}^{n})\longrightarrow L^{2}(\mathbb{R}^{2n})$ \ indexed by $\mathcal{S}(\mathbb{R}^{n})$. This allows us obtain spectral and regularity results for our operators using Shubin's symbol classes and Feichtinger's modulation spaces.

id: 1209.1850
title: Quantum mechanics in phase space: The Schr?dinger and the Moyal representations
authors: Nuno Costa Dias, Maurice de Gosson, Franz Luef, Jo?o Nuno Prata
comments: 28 pages, latex file, to appear in J. Pseudo-Differ. Oper. Appl
journal: Journal of Pseudo-Differential Operators and Applications, 3(4) (2012) 367-398
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1850
abstract: We present a phase space formulation of quantum mechanics in the Schr\"odinger representation and derive the associated Weyl pseudo-differential calculus. We prove that the resulting theory is unitarily equivalent to the standard "configuration space" formulation and show that it allows for a uniform treatment of both pure and mixed quantum states. In the second part of the paper we determine the unitary transformation (and its infinitesimal generator) that maps the phase space Schr\"odinger representation into another (called Moyal) representation, where the wave function is the cross-Wigner function familiar from deformation quantization. Some features of this representation are studied, namely the associated pseudo-differential calculus and the main spectral and dynamical results. Finally, the relation with deformation quantization is discussed.

id: 1209.1883
title: Entanglement entropy in long-range harmonic oscillators
authors: M. Ghasemi Nezhadhaghighi, M. A. Rajabpour
comments: Published version, 5 figures
journal: EPL, 100 (2012) 60011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1883
abstract: We study the Von Neumann and R\'enyi entanglement entropy of long-range harmonic oscillators (LRHO) by both theoretical and numerical means. We show that the entanglement entropy in massless harmonic oscillators increases logarithmically with the sub-system size as $S=\frac{c_{eff}}{3}\log l$. Although the entanglement entropy of LRHO's shares some similarities with the entanglement entropy at conformal critical points we show that the R\'enyi entanglement entropy presents some deviations from the expected conformal behavior. In the massive case we demonstrate that the behavior of the entanglement entropy with respect to the correlation length is also logarithmic as the short range case.

id: 1209.1891
title: Coherent control of the refractive index using optical bistability
authors: H. Aswath Babu, Harshawardhan Wanare
comments: comments can be sent to aswath@iitk.ac.in
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1891
abstract: Refractive index and absorption experienced by a probe field propagating through a three-level atomic medium can be effectively manipulated by the bistable behavior of a control field. The probe field couples the lower transition of the atom in ladder configuration and experiences normal or anomalous dispersion depending on the control field being in the upper or lower bistable state, respectively. We also obtain nonlinear dynamical instability in the form of periodic self-pulsing as the lower bistable branch becomes unstable, quite unlike earlier demonstrations of unstable regime in the upper branch. Consequently, the susceptibility experienced by the probe field varies periodically in time dictated by the control field self-pulsing.

id: 1209.1939
title: Collapse-and-revival dynamics of strongly laser-driven electrons
authors: O. D. Skoromnik, I. D. Feranchuk, C. H. Keitel
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1939
abstract: The relativistic quantum dynamics of an electron in an intense single-mode quantized electromagnetic field is investigated with special emphasis on the spin degree of freedom. In addition to fast spin oscillations at the laser frequency, a second time scale is identified due to the intensity dependent emissions and absorptions of field quanta. In analogy to the well-known phenomenon in atoms at moderate laser intensity, we put forward the conditions of collapses and revivals for the spin evolution in laser-driven electrons starting at feasible $10^{18}$ W/cm$^2$.

id: 1209.1948
title: Observation and measurement of "giant" dispersive optical non-linearities in an ensemble of cold Rydberg atoms
authors: Valentina Parigi, Erwan Bimbard, Jovica Stanojevic, Andrew J. Hilliard, Florence Nogrette, Rosa Tualle-Brouri, Alexei Ourjoumtsev, Philippe Grangier
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 233602 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1948
abstract: We observe and measure dispersive optical non-linearities in an ensemble of cold Rydberg atoms placed inside an optical cavity. The experimental results are in agreement with a simple model where the optical non-linearities are due to the progressive appearance of a Rydberg blockaded volume within the medium. The measurements allow a direct estimation of the "blockaded fraction" of atoms within the atomic ensemble.

id: 1209.1959
title: Impurity Effects in Two-Electron Coupled Quantum Dots: Entanglement Modulation
authors: Diego S. Acosta Coden, Rodolfo H. Romero, Alejandro Ferr¨®n, Sergio S. Gomez
comments: Regular Article (Journal of Physics B, in press), 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Journal of Physics B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46,065501 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1959
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of the electronic and optical properties of two-electron quantum dots with a two-dimensional Gaussian confinement potential. We study the effects of Coulomb impurities and the possibility of manipulate the entanglement of the electrons by controlling the confinement potential parameters. The degree of entanglement becomes highly modulated by both the location and charge screening of the impurity atom, resulting two regimes: one of low entanglement and other of high entanglement, with both of them mainly determined by the magnitude of the charge. It is shown that the magnitude of the oscillator strength of the system could provide an indication of the presence and characteristics of impurities that could largely influence the degree of entanglement of the system.

id: 1209.1992
title: A generalized Ramsey excitation scheme with suppressed light shift
authors: N. Huntemann, B. Lipphardt, M. Okhapkin, Chr. Tamm, E. Peik, A. V. Taichenachev, V. I. Yudin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 213002 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.1992
abstract: We experimentally investigate a recently proposed optical excitation scheme [V.I. Yudin et al., Phys. Rev. A 82, 011804(R)(2010)] that is a generalization of Ramsey's method of separated oscillatory fields and consists of a sequence of three excitation pulses. The pulse sequence is tailored to produce a resonance signal which is immune to the light shift and other shifts of the transition frequency that are correlated with the interaction with the probe field. We investigate the scheme using a single trapped 171Yb+ ion and excite the highly forbidden 2S1/2-2F7/2 electric-octupole transition under conditions where the light shift is much larger than the excitation linewidth, which is in the Hertz range. The experiments demonstrate a suppression of the light shift by four orders of magnitude and an immunity against its fluctuations.

id: 1209.2037
title: Decoherence effects on weak value measurements in double quantum dots
authors: Mark Thomas, Alessandro Romito
comments: published version, new figures and comments added; 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 235419 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2037
abstract: We study the effect of decoherence on a weak value measurement in a paradigm system consisting of a double quantum dot continuously measured by a quantum point contact. Fluctuations of the parameters controlling the dot state induce decoherence. We find that, for measurements longer than the decoherence time, weak values are always reduced within the range of the eigenvalues of the measured observable. For measurements at shorter time scales, the measured weak value strongly depends on the interplay between the decoherence dynamics of the system and the detector backaction. In particular, depending on the postselected state and the strength of the decoherence, a more frequent classical readout of the detector might lead to an enhancement of weak values.

id: 1209.2046
title: Fluctuation Electromagnetic Interaction Between Rotating Nanoparticle and Near-Field of the Surface
authors: A. A. Kyasov, G. V. Dedkov
comments: 16 pages,4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2046
abstract: Fluctuation electromagnetic interaction between a small rotating particle and a polarizable surface produces the friction torque on the particle, changes the attraction force (van -der -Waals force) and the rate of heat exchange in this system. In this paper we consider the case where the rotation axis is parallel to the surface. We present general theoretical basis allowing to obtain characteristics of the interaction at an arbitrary orientation of the rotation axis. In comparison to the case where the rotation axis is perpendicular to the surface (arXiv: 1208.2603), the obtained integral expressions for the friction torque, interaction energy and heating rate have different numerical coefficients. Numerical estimations are given in the case Au (particle)- Au(surface) and SiC (particle)-SiC (surface).

id: 1209.2051
title: Identifying topological edge states in 2D optical lattices using light scattering
authors: Nathan Goldman, Jerome Beugnon, Fabrice Gerbier
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures. Revised and extended version, to appear in EJP Special Topic for the special issue on "Novel Quantum Phases and Mesoscopic Physics in Quantum Gases". Extended version of arXiv:1203.1246
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 217, 135-152 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2051
abstract: We recently proposed in a Letter [Physical Review Letters 108 255303] a novel scheme to detect topological edge states in an optical lattice, based on a generalization of Bragg spectroscopy. The scope of the present article is to provide a more detailed and pedagogical description of the system - the Hofstadter optical lattice - and probing method. We first show the existence of topological edge states, in an ultra-cold gas trapped in a 2D optical lattice and subjected to a synthetic magnetic field. The remarkable robustness of the edge states is verified for a variety of external confining potentials. Then, we describe a specific laser probe, made from two lasers in Laguerre-Gaussian modes, which captures unambiguous signatures of these edge states. In particular, the resulting Bragg spectra provide the dispersion relation of the edge states, establishing their chiral nature. In order to make the Bragg signal experimentally detectable, we introduce a "shelving method", which simultaneously transfers angular momentum and changes the internal atomic state. This scheme allows to directly visualize the selected edge states on a dark background, offering an instructive view on topological insulating phases, not accessible in solid-state experiments.

id: 1209.2062
title: Tensor networks and the numerical renormalization group
authors: Andreas Weichselbaum
comments: 20 pages, 11 figures (adapted from habilitation thesis)
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2062
abstract: The full-density-matrix numerical renormalization group (NRG) has evolved as a systematic and transparent setting for the cal- culation of thermodynamical quantities at arbitrary temperatures within the NRG framework. It directly evaluates the relevant Lehmann representations based on the complete basis sets intro- duced by Anders and Schiller (2005). In addition, specific attention is given to the possible feedback from low energy physics to high energies by the explicit and careful construction of the full thermal density matrix, naturally generated over a distribution of energy shells. Specific examples are given in terms of spectral functions (fdmNRG), time-dependent NRG (tdmNRG), Fermi-Golden rule calculations (fgrNRG), as well as the calculation of plain thermodynamic expectation values. Furthermore, based on the very fact that, by its iterative nature, the NRG eigenstates are naturally described in terms of matrix product states, the language of tensor networks has proven enormously convenient in the description of the underlying algorithmic procedures. This paper therefore also provides a detailed introduction and discussion of the prototypical NRG calculations in terms of their corresponding tensor networks.

id: 1209.2087
title: Cooling a single atom in an optical tweezer to its quantum ground state
authors: Adam M. Kaufman, Brian J. Lester, Cindy A. Regal
comments: Updated intro, title
journal: Physical Review X 2, 041014 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2087
abstract: We report cooling of a single neutral atom to its three-dimensional vibrational ground state in an optical tweezer. After employing Raman sideband cooling for tens of milliseconds, we measure via sideband spectroscopy a three-dimensional ground-state occupation of ~90%. We further observe coherent control of the spin and motional state of the trapped atom. Our demonstration shows that an optical tweezer, formed simply by a tightly focused beam of light, creates sufficient confinement for efficient sideband cooling. This source of ground-state neutral atoms will be instrumental in numerous quantum simulation and logic applications that require a versatile platform for storing and manipulating ultracold single neutral atoms. For example, these results will improve current optical tweezer experiments studying atom-photon coupling and Rydberg quantum logic gates, and could provide new opportunities such as rapid production of single dipolar molecules or quantum simulation in tweezer arrays.

id: 1209.2099
title: Ultra-low power generation of twin photons in a compact silicon ring resonator
authors: Stefano Azzini, Davide Grassani, Michael J. Strain, Marc Sorel, L. G. Helt, J. E. Sipe, Marco Liscidini, Matteo Galli, Daniele Bajoni
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 21, pp. 23100-23107 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2099
abstract: We demonstrate efficient generation of correlated photon pairs by spontaneous four wave mixing in a 5 \mu m radius silicon ring resonator in the telecom band around 1550 nm. By optically pumping our device with a 200 \mu W continuous wave laser, we obtain a pair generation rate of 0.2 MHz and demonstrate photon time correlations with a coincidence-to-accidental ratio as high as 250. The results are in good agreement with theoretical predictions and show the potential of silicon micro-ring resonators as room temperature sources for integrated quantum optics applications.

id: 1209.2172
title: Atom lasers: production, properties and prospects for precision inertial measurement
authors: N. P. Robins, P. A. Altin, J. E. Debs, J. D. Close
comments: This is a review paper. It contains 40 pages, including references and figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2172
abstract: We review experimental progress on atom lasers out-coupled from Bose-Einstein condensates, and consider the properties of such beams in the context of precision inertial sensing. The atom laser is the matter-wave analog of the optical laser. Both devices rely on Bose-enhanced scattering to produce a macroscopically populated trapped mode that is output-coupled to produce an intense beam. In both cases, the beams often display highly desirable properties such as low divergence, high spectral flux and a simple spatial mode that make them useful in practical applications, as well as the potential to perform measurements at or below the quantum projection noise limit. Both devices display similar second-order correlations that differ from thermal sources. Because of these properties, atom lasers are a promising source for application to precision inertial measurements.

id: 1209.2212
title: Geometric momentum in the Monge parametrization of two dimensional sphere
authors: D. M. Xun, Q. H. Liu
comments: 6 pages, no figure
journal: International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics, v10 n3 (March, 2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2212
abstract: A two dimensional surface can be considered as three dimensional shell whose thickness is negligible in comparison with the dimension of the whole system. The quantum mechanics on surface can be first formulated in the bulk and the limit of vanishing thickness is then taken. The gradient operator and the Laplace operator originally defined in bulk converges to the geometric ones on the surface, and the so-called geometric momentum and geometric potential are obtained. On the surface of two dimensional sphere the geometric momentum in the Monge parametrization is explicitly explored. Dirac's theory on second-class constrained motion is resorted to for accounting for the commutator [x_{i},p_{j}]=i \hbar({\delta}_{ij}-x_{i}x_{j}/r^2) rather than [x_{i},p_{j}]=i\hbar{\delta}_{ij} that does not hold true any more. This geometric momentum is geometric invariant under parameters transformation, and self-adjoint.

id: 1209.2226
title: Anisotropic Polarizability of Ultracold Polar $^{40}$K$^{87}$Rb Molecules
authors: B. Neyenhuis, B. Yan, S. A. Moses, J. P. Covey, A. Chotia, A. Petrov, S. Kotochigova, J. Ye, D. S. Jin
comments: 4 pages for main text, 4 figures, 2 pages for supplementary information
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 230403 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2226
abstract: We report the measurement of the anisotropic AC polarizability of ultracold polar $^{40}$K$^{87}$Rb molecules in the ground and first rotationally excited states. Theoretical analysis of the polarizability agrees well with experimental findings. Although the polarizability can vary by more than 30%, a "magic" angle between the laser polarization and the quantization axis is found where the polarizability of the $|N=0,m_N=0>$ and the $|N=1,m_N=0>$ states match. At this angle, rotational decoherence due to the mismatch in trapping potentials is eliminated, and we observe a sharp increase in the coherence time. This paves the way for precise spectroscopic measurements and coherent manipulations of rotational states as a tool in the creation and probing of novel quantum many-body states of polar molecules.

id: 1209.2347
title: PT-Symmetric Electronics
authors: J. Schindler, Z. Lin, J. M. Lee, Hamidreza Ramezani, F. M. Ellis, Tsampikos Kottos
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2347
abstract: We show both theoretically and experimentally that a pair of inductively coupled active LRC circuits (dimer), one with amplification and another with an equivalent amount of attenuation, display all the features which characterize a wide class of non-Hermitian systems which commute with the joint parity-time PT operator: typical normal modes, temporal evolution, and scattering processes. Utilizing a Liouvilian formulation, we can define an underlying PT-symmetric Hamiltonian, which provides important insight for understanding the behavior of the system. When the PT-dimer is coupled to transmission lines, the resulting scattering signal reveals novel features which reflect the PT-symmetry of the scattering target. Specifically we show that the device can show two different behaviors simultaneously, an amplifier or an absorber, depending on the direction and phase relation of the interrogating waves. Having an exact theory, and due to its relative experimental simplicity, PT-symmetric electronics offers new insights into the properties of PT-symmetric systems which are at the forefront of the research in mathematical physics and related fields.

id: 1209.2349
title: PT-Symmetric Talbot Effects
authors: Hamidreza Ramezani, D. N. Christodoulides, V. Kovanis, I. Vitebskiy, Tsampikos Kottos
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 033902 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2349
abstract: We show that complex PT-symmetric photonic lattices can lead to a new class of self-imaging Talbot effects. For this to occur, we find that the input field pattern, has to respect specific periodicities which are dictated by the symmetries of the system. While at the spontaneous PT-symmetry breaking point, the image revivals occur at Talbot lengths governed by the characteristics of the passive lattice, at the exact phase it depends on the gain and loss parameter thus allowing one to control the imaging process.

id: 1209.2428
title: Bose-Fermi duality and entanglement entropies
authors: Matthew Headrick, Albion Lawrence, Matthew M. Roberts
comments: 40 pages; v3: improvements to presentation, new section discussing entanglement negativity
journal: J.Stat.Mech. 1302 (2013) P02022
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2428
abstract: Entanglement (Renyi) entropies of spatial regions are a useful tool for characterizing the ground states of quantum field theories. In this paper we investigate the extent to which these are universal quantities for a given theory, and to which they distinguish different theories, by comparing the entanglement spectra of the massless Dirac fermion and the compact free boson in two dimensions. We show that the calculation of Renyi entropies via the replica trick for any orbifold theory includes a sum over orbifold twists on all cycles. In a modular-invariant theory of fermions, this amounts to a sum over spin structures. The result is that the Renyi entropies respect the standard Bose-Fermi duality. Next, we investigate the entanglement spectrum for the Dirac fermion without a sum over spin structures, and for the compact boson at the self-dual radius. These are not equivalent theories; nonetheless, we find that (1) their second Renyi entropies agree for any number of intervals, (2) their full entanglement spectra agree for two intervals, and (3) the spectrum generically disagrees otherwise. These results follow from the equality of the partition functions of the two theories on any Riemann surface with imaginary period matrix. We also exhibit a map between the operators of the theories that preserves scaling dimensions (but not spins), as well as OPEs and correlators of operators placed on the real line. All of these coincidences can be traced to the fact that the momentum lattice for the bosonized fermion is related to that of the self-dual boson by a 45 degree rotation that mixes left- and right-movers.

id: 1209.2438
title: Imaging backscattering through impurity-induced antidots in quantum Hall constrictions
authors: Nicola Paradiso, Stefan Heun, Stefano Roddaro, Giorgio Biasiol, Lucia Sorba, Davide Venturelli, Fabio Taddei, Vittorio Giovannetti, Fabio Beltram
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 86, 085326 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2438
abstract: We exploit the biased tip of a scanning gate microscope (SGM) to induce a controlled backscattering between counter-propagating edge channels in a wide constriction in the quantum Hall regime. We compare our detailed conductance maps with a numerical percolation model and demonstrate that conductance fluctuations observed in these devices as a function of the gate voltage originate from backscattering events mediated by localized states pinned by potential fluctuations. Our imaging technique allows us to identify the necessary conditions for the activation of these backscattering processes and also to reconstruct the constriction confinement potential profile and the underlying disorder.

id: 1209.2474
title: Highly efficient coupling of photons from nanoemitters into single-mode optical fibers
authors: Masazumi Fujiwara, Kiyota Toubaru, Tetsuya Noda, Hong-Quan Zhao, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 
journal: Nano Lett. 11, 4362 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2474
abstract: Highly efficient coupling of photons from nanoemitters into single-mode optical fibers is demonstrated using tapered fibers. 7.4 +/- 1.2 % of the total emitted photons from single CdSe/ZnS nanocrystals were coupled into a 300-nm-diameter tapered fiber. The dependence of the coupling efficiency on the taper diameter was investigated and the coupling efficiency was found to increase exponentially with decreasing diameter. This method is very promising for nanoparticle sensing and single-photon sources.

id: 1209.2496
title: Geometric phase outside a Schwarzschild black hole and the Hawking effect
authors: Jiawei Hu, Hongwei Yu
comments: 14 pages, no figures, a typo in the References corrected, version to appear in JHEP. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1109.0335
journal: JHEP 09(2012)062
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2496
abstract: We study the Hawking effect in terms of the geometric phase acquired by a two-level atom as a result of coupling to vacuum fluctuations outside a Schwarzschild black hole in a gedanken experiment. We treat the atom in interaction with a bath of fluctuating quantized massless scalar fields as an open quantum system, whose dynamics is governed by a master equation obtained by tracing over the field degrees of freedom. The nonunitary effects of this system are examined by analyzing the geometric phase for the Boulware, Unruh and Hartle-Hawking vacua respectively. We find, for all the three cases, that the geometric phase of the atom turns out to be affected by the space-time curvature which backscatters the vacuum field modes. In both the Unruh and Hartle-Hawking vacua, the geometric phase exhibits similar behaviors as if there were thermal radiation at the Hawking temperature from the black hole. So, a measurement of the change of the geometric phase as opposed to that in a flat space-time can in principle reveal the existence of the Hawking radiation.

id: 1209.2497
title: Ladder Operators for Quantum Systems Confined by Dihedral Angles
authors: Eugenio Ley-Koo, Guo-Hua Sun
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 060, 15 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2497
abstract: We report the identification and construction of raising and lowering operators for the complete eigenfunctions of isotropic harmonic oscillators confined by dihedral angles, in circular cylindrical and spherical coordinates; as well as for the hydrogen atom in the same situation of confinement, in spherical, parabolic and prolate spheroidal coordinates. The actions of such operators on any eigenfunction are examined in the respective coordinates, illustrating the possibility of generating the complete bases of eigenfunctions in the respective coordinates for both physical systems. The relationships between the eigenfunctions in each pair of coordinates, and with the same eigenenergies are also illustrated.

id: 1209.2521
title: The double well potential in quantum mechanics: a simple, numerically exact formulation
authors: V. Jelic, F. Marsiglio
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures; suitable for undergraduate courses in quantum mechanics
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 33, 1651-1666, 2012
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2521
abstract: The double well potential is arguably one of the most important potentials in quantum mechanics, because the solution contains the notion of a state as a linear superposition of `classical' states, a concept which has become very important in quantum information theory. It is therefore desirable to have solutions to simple double well potentials that are accessible to the undergraduate student. We describe a method for obtaining the numerically exact eigenenergies and eigenstates for such a model, along with the energies obtained through the Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin (WKB) approximation. The exact solution is accessible with elementary mathematics, though numerical solutions are required. We also find that the WKB approximation is remarkably accurate, not just for the ground state, but for the excited states as well.

id: 1209.2665
title: Emergence of classical trajectories in quantum systems: the cloud chamber problem in the analysis of Mott (1929)
authors: Rodolfo Figari, Alessandro Teta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2665
abstract: We analyze the paper "The wave mechanics of $\alpha$-ray tracks" (Mott, 1929), published in 1929 by N.F. Mott. In particular, we discuss the theoretical context in which the paper appeared and give a detailed account of the approach used by the author and the main result attained. Moreover, we comment on the relevance of the work not only as far as foundations of Quantum Mechanics are concerned but also as the earliest pioneering contribution in decoherence theory.

id: 1209.2674
title: An entropic partial order on a parabolic quotient of S6
authors: Gary McConnell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2674
abstract: Let m and n be any integers with n>m>=2. Using just the entropy function it is possible to define a partial order on S_mn (the symmetric group on mn letters) modulo a subgroup isomorphic to S_m x S_n. We explore this partial order in the case m=2, n=3, where thanks to the outer automorphism the quotient space is actually isomorphic to a parabolic quotient of S_6. Furthermore we show that in this case it has a fairly simple algebraic description in terms of elements of the group ring.

id: 1209.2730
title: Cryogenic Optomechanics with a Si3N4 Membrane and Classical Laser Noise
authors: A. M. Jayich, J. C. Sankey, K. Borkje, D. Lee, C. Yang, M. Underwood, L. Childress, A. Petrenko, S. M. Girvin, J. G. E. Harris
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2730
abstract: We demonstrate a cryogenic optomechanical system comprising a flexible Si3N4 membrane placed at the center of a free-space optical cavity in a 400 mK cryogenic environment. We observe a mechanical quality factor Q > 4 x 10^6 for the 261-kHz fundamental drum-head mode of the membrane, and a cavity resonance halfwidth of 60 kHz. The optomechanical system therefore operates in the resolved sideband limit. We monitor the membrane's thermal motion using a heterodyne optical circuit capable of simultaneously measuring both of the mechanical sidebands, and find that the observed optical spring and damping quantitatively agree with theory. The mechanical sidebands exhibit a Fano lineshape, and to explain this we develop a theory describing heterodyne measurements in the presence of correlated classical laser noise. Finally, we discuss the use of a passive filter cavity to remove classical laser noise, and consider the future requirements for laser cooling this relatively large and low-frequency mechanical element to very near its quantum mechanical ground state.

id: 1209.2745
title: Coherent spin control by electrical manipulation of the magnetic anisotropy
authors: Richard E George, James P Edwards, Arzhang Ardavan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 027601 (2013)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2745
abstract: High-spin paramagnetic manganese defects in polar piezoelectric zinc oxide exhibit a simple almost axial anisotropy and phase coherence times of the order of a millisecond at low temperatures. The anisotropy energy is tunable using an externally applied electric field. This can be used to control electrically the phase of spin superpositions and to drive spin transitions with resonant microwave electric fields.

id: 1209.2747
title: Ultrasensitive N-photon interferometric autocorrelator
authors: Zili Zhou, Giulia Frucci, Francesco Mattioli, Alessandro Gaggero, Roberto Leoni, Saeedeh Jahanmirinejad, Thang Ba Hoang, Andrea Fiore
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2747
abstract: We demonstrate a novel method to measure the Nth-order (N=1, 2, 3, 4) interferometric autocorrelation with high sensitivity and temporal resolution. It is based on the combination of linear absorption and nonlinear detection in a superconducting nanodetector, providing much higher efficiency than methods based on all-optical nonlinearities. Its temporal resolution is only limited by the quasi-particle energy relaxation time, which is directly measured to be in the 20 ps range for the NbN films used in this work. We present a general model of interferometric autocorrelation with these nonlinear detectors and discuss the comparison with other approaches and possible improvements.

id: 1209.2864
title: Pragmatic SAE procedure in the Schrodinger equation for the inverse-square-like potentials
authors: Teimuraz Nadareishvili, Anzor Khelashvili
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2864
abstract: The Self-Adjoint Extension in the Schrodinger equation for potentials behaved as an attractive inverse square at the origin is critically reviewed. Original results are also presented. It is shown that the additional non-regular solutions must be retained for definite interval of parameters, which requires a necessity of performing a Self-Adjoint Extension (SAE) procedure of radial Hamiltonian.The Pragmatic approach is used and some of its consequences are considered for wide class of transitive potentials. Our consideration is based on the established earlier by us a boundary condition for the radial wave function and the corresponding consequences are derived. Various relevant applications are presented as well. They are: inverse square potential in the Schrodinger equation is solved when the additional non-regular solution is retained. Valence electron model and the Klein-Gordon equation with the Coulomb potential is considered and the hydrino -like levels are discussed.

id: 1209.2921
title: Interplay of order and chaos across a first-order quantum shape-phase transition in nuclei
authors: A. Leviatan, M. Macek
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, Proc. Int. Conf. on "Nuclear Structure and Dynamics II", July 9-13, 2012, Opatija, Croatia. Higher quality (larger size) figures can be obtained from this http URL
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1491: 166-169, 2012
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2921
abstract: We study the nature of the dynamics in a first-order quantum phase transition between spherical and prolate-deformed nuclear shapes. Classical and quantum analyses reveal a change in the system from a chaotic H\'enon-Heiles behavior on the spherical side into a pronounced regular dynamics on the deformed side. Both order and chaos persist in the coexistence region and their interplay reflects the Landau potential landscape and the impact of collective rotations.

id: 1209.2954
title: Quantum quenches with random matrix Hamiltonians and disordered potentials
authors: Fabian Kolley, Oriol Bohigas, Boris V. Fine
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2954
abstract: We numerically investigate statistical ensembles for the occupations of eigenstates of an isolated quantum system emerging as a result of quantum quenches. The systems investigated are sparse random matrix Hamiltonians and disordered lattices. In the former case, the quench consists of sudden switching-on the off-diagonal elements of the Hamiltonian. In the latter case, it is sudden switching-on of the hopping between adjacent lattice sites. The quench-induced ensembles are compared with the so-called "quantum micro-canonical" (QMC) ensemble describing quantum superpositions with fixed energy expectation values. Our main finding is that quantum quenches with sparse random matrices having one special diagonal element lead to the condensation phenomenon predicted for the QMC ensemble. Away from the QMC condensation regime, the overall agreement with the QMC predictions is only qualitative for both random matrices and disordered lattices but with some cases of a very good quantitative agreement. In the case of disordered lattices, the QMC ensemble can be used to estimate the probability of finding a particle in a localized or delocalized eigenstate.

id: 1209.2977
title: The Leggett-Garg inequality in electron interferometers
authors: Clive Emary, Neill Lambert, Franco Nori
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 235447 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2977
abstract: We consider the violation of the Leggett-Garg inequality in electronic Mach-Zehnder inteferometers. This set-up has two distinct advantages over earlier quantum-transport proposals: firstly, the required correlation functions can be obtained without time-resolved measurements. Secondly, the geometry of an interferometer allows one to construct the correlation functions from ideal negative measurements, which addresses the non-invasiveness requirement of the Leggett-Garg inequality. We discuss two concrete realisations of these ideas: the first in quantum Hall edge-channels, the second in a double quantum dot interferometer.

id: 1209.2990
title: Manipulating Topological Edge Spins in One-Dimensional Optical Lattice
authors: Xiong-Jun Liu, Zheng-Xin Liu, Meng Cheng
comments: 4+pages+Supplementary material. Details for the model realization has been added to the supplementary material. Accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 076401 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2990
abstract: We propose to observe and manipulate topological edge spins in 1D optical lattice based on currently available experimental platforms. Coupling the atomic spin states to a laser-induced periodic Zeeman field, the lattice system can be driven into a symmetry protected topological (SPT) phase, which belongs to the chiral unitary (AIII) class protected by particle number conservation and chiral symmetries. In free-fermion case the SPT phase is classified by a $Z$ invariant which reduces to $Z_4$ with interactions. The zero edge modes of the SPT phase are spin-polarized, with left and right edge spins polarized to opposite directions and forming a topological spin-qubit (TSQ). We demonstrate a novel scheme to manipulate the zero modes and realize single spin control in optical lattice. The manipulation of TSQs has potential applications to quantum computation.

id: 1209.3028
title: Coherence and Raman sideband cooling of a single atom in an optical tweezer
authors: J. D. Thompson, T. G. Tiecke, A. S. Zibrov, V. Vuleti?, M. D. Lukin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3028
abstract: We investigate quantum control of a single atom in an optical tweezer trap created by a tightly focused optical beam. We show that longitudinal polarization components in the dipole trap arising from the breakdown of the paraxial approximation give rise to significant internal-state decoherence. We show that this effect can be mitigated by appropriate choice of magnetic bias field, enabling Raman sideband cooling of a single atom close to its three-dimensional ground state in an optical trap with a beam waist as small as $w=900$ nm. We achieve vibrational occupation numbers of $\bar{n}_r = 0.01$ and $\bar{n}_a = 8$ in the radial and axial directions of the trap, corresponding to an rms size of the atomic wavepacket of 24 nm and 270 nm, respectively. This represents a promising starting point for future hybrid quantum systems where atoms are placed in close proximity to surfaces.

id: 1209.3030
title: Fermionic vacuum polarization by a flat boundary in cosmic string spacetime
authors: E. R. Bezerra de Mello, A. A. Saharian, S. V. Abajyan
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 30 (2013) 015002
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3030
abstract: In this paper we investigate the fermionic condensate and the renormalized vacuum expectation value (VEV) of the energy-momentum tensor for a massive fermionic field induced by a flat boundary in the cosmic string spacetime. In this analysis we assume that the field operator obeys MIT bag boundary condition on the boundary. We explicitly decompose the VEVs into the boundary-free and boundary-induced parts. General formulas are provided for both parts which are valid for any value of the parameter associated with the cosmic string. For a massless field, the boundary-free part in the fermionic condensate and the boundary-induced part in the energy-momentum tensor vanish. For a massive field the radial stress is equal to the energy density for both boundary-free and boundary-induced parts. The boundary-induced part in the stress along the axis of the cosmic string vanishes. The total energy density is negative everywhere, whereas the effective pressure along the azimuthal direction is positive near the boundary and negative near the cosmic string. We show that for points away from the boundary, the boundary-induced parts in the fermionic condensate and in the VEV of the energy-momentum tensor vanish on the string.

id: 1209.3058
title: Physics of three dimensional bosonic topological insulators: Surface Deconfined Criticality and Quantized Magnetoelectric Effect
authors: Ashvin Vishwanath, T. Senthil
comments: 25 pages+ 3 pages Appendices, 3 figures. Introduction rewritten for clarity, minor technical changes and additional details of surface topological order added
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 011016 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3058
abstract: We discuss physical properties of `integer' topological phases of bosons in D=3+1 dimensions, protected by internal symmetries like time reversal and/or charge conservation. These phases invoke interactions in a fundamental way but do not possess topological order and are bosonic analogs of free fermion topological insulators and superconductors. While a formal cohomology based classification of such states was recently discovered, their physical properties remain mysterious. Here we develop a field theoretic description of several of these states and show that they possess unusual surface states, which if gapped, must either break the underlying symmetry, or develop topological order. In the latter case, symmetries are implemented in a way that is forbidden in a strictly two dimensional theory. While this is the usual fate of the surface states, exotic gapless states can also be realized. For example, tuning parameters can naturally lead to a deconfined quantum critical point or, in other situations, a fully symmetric vortex metal phase. We discuss cases where the topological phases are characterized by quantized magnetoelectric response \theta, which, somewhat surprisingly, is an odd multiple of 2\pi. Two different surface theories are shown to capture these phenomena - the first is a nonlinear sigma model with a topological term. The second invokes vortices on the surface that transform under a projective representation of the symmetry group. A bulk field theory consistent with these properties is identified, which is a multicomponent `BF' theory supplemented, crucially, with a topological term. A possible topological phase characterized by the thermal analog of the magnetoelectric effect is also discussed.

id: 1209.3087
title: Entropy and entanglement in polymer quantization
authors: Tommaso F. Demarie, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 12 pages, we have rewritten Section 3, improved the notation and updated the bibliography. This manuscript has been accepted for publication on Class. Quantum Grav
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 30, 135006 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3087
abstract: Polymer quantization is as a useful toy model for the mathematical aspects of loop quantum gravity and is interesting in its own right. Analyzing entropies of physically equivalent states in the standard Hilbert space and the polymer Hilbert space we show that they converge in the limit of vanishing polymer scale. We derive a general bound that relates entropies of physically equivalent states in unitarily inequivalent representations.

id: 1209.3092
title: The Quantum State of Inflationary Perturbations
authors: Jerome Martin
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures; to appear in the Proceedings of COSGRAV-2012 (International Conference on Modern Perspectives of Cosmology and Gravitation), Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata, India, February 7-11, 2012
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3092
abstract: This article reviews the properties of the quantum state of inflationary perturbations. After a brief description of the inflationary background, the wavefunction of the Mukhanov-Sasaki variable is calculated and shown to be that of a strongly squeezed state. The corresponding Wigner function and density matrix, which are convenient tools to characterize the properties of a quantum state, are also evaluated. Finally, the issue of definite outcomes for inflation is discussed.

id: 1209.3111
title: Coherent Transport and Symmetry Breaking - Laser Dynamics of Constrained Granular Matter
authors: Andreas Lubatsch, Regine Frank
comments: New Journal of Physics (accepted 2014)
journal: New J. Phys. 16 083043 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3111
abstract: We present diagrammatic transport theory including self-consistent nonlinear enhancement and dissipation in the multiple scattering regime. Our model of Vollhardt-W\"olfle transport of photons is fit-parameter-free and raises the claim that the results hold up to the closest packed volume of randomly arranged ZnO Mie scatterers. We find that a symmetry breaking caused by dissipative effects of a lossy underlying substrate leads to qualitatively different physics of coherence and lasing in granular amplifying media. According to our results, confined and extended mode and their laser thresholds can be clearly attributed to unbroken and broken spatial symmetry. The diameters and emission profiles of random laser modes, as well as their thresholds and the positional-dependent degree of coherence can be checked experimentally.

id: 1209.3148
title: Parametric Resonance in Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: William Cairncross, Axel Pelster
comments: 
journal: European Physical Journal D 68, 106 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3148
abstract: We demonstrate parametric resonance in Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) with attractive two-body interaction in a harmonic trap under parametric excitation by periodic modulation of the s-wave scattering length. We obtain nonlinear equations of motion for the widths of the condensate using a Gaussian variational ansatz for the Gross-Pitaevskii condensate wave function. We conduct both linear and nonlinear stability analyses for the equations of motion and find qualitative agreement, thus concluding that the stability of two equilibrium widths of a BEC might be inverted by parametric excitation.

id: 1209.3182
title: RF dressed atoms beyond the linear Zeeman effect
authors: G. Sinuco-Le¨®n, B. M. Garraway
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 123008 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3182
abstract: We evaluate the impact that nonlinear Zeeman shifts have on resonant radio-frequency (RF) dressed traps in an atom-chip configuration. The degeneracy of the resonance between Zeeman levels is lifted at large intensities of a static field, modifying the spatial dependence of the atomic adiabatic potential. In this context, we find effects that are important for the next generation of atom chips with tight trapping: in particular, that the vibrational frequency of the atom trap is sensitive to the RF frequency and, depending on the sign of the Land\'e factor, can produce significantly weaker, or tighter trapping when compared to the linear regime of the Zeeman effect. We take 87Rb as an example and find that it is possible for the trapping frequency on F = 1 to exceed that of the F = 2 hyperfine manifold.

id: 1209.3190
title: New spectral bounds on the chromatic number encompassing all eigenvalues of the adjacency matrix
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Clive Elphick
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3190
abstract: The purpose of this article is to improve existing lower bounds on the chromatic number chi. Let mu_1,...,mu_n be the eigenvalues of the adjacency matrix sorted in non-increasing order. First, we prove the lower bound chi >= 1 + max_m {sum_{i=1}^m mu_i / - sum_{i=1}^m mu_{n-i+1}} for m=1,...,n-1. This generalizes the Hoffman lower bound which only involves the maximum and minimum eigenvalues, i.e., the case $m=1$. We provide several examples for which the new bound exceeds the {\sc Hoffman} lower bound. Second, we conjecture the lower bound chi >= 1 + S^+ / S^-, where S^+ and S^- are the sums of the squares of positive and negative eigenvalues, respectively. To corroborate this conjecture, we prove the weaker bound chi >= S^+/S^-. We show that the conjectured lower bound is tight for several families of graphs. We also performed various searches for a counter-example, but none was found. Our proofs rely on a new technique of converting the adjacency matrix into the zero matrix by conjugating with unitary matrices and use majorization of spectra of self-adjoint matrices. We also show that the above bounds are actually lower bounds on the normalized orthogonal rank of a graph, which is always less than or equal to the chromatic number. The normalized orthogonal rank is the minimum dimension making it possible to assign vectors with entries of modulus one to the vertices such that two such vectors are orthogonal if the corresponding vertices are connected. All these bounds are also valid when we replace the adjacency matrix A by W * A where W is an arbitrary self-adjoint matrix and * denotes the Schur product, that is, entrywise product of W and A.

id: 1209.3275
title: Cayley graphs and analysis of quantum cost for reversible circuit synthesis
authors: A. C. Ribeiro, C. M. H. de Figueiredo, F. L. Marquezino, L. A. B. Kowada
comments: IV Workshop-School on Quantum Computation and Information (WECIQ 2012), Fortaleza, Brazil
journal: 
subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3275
abstract: We propose the theory of Cayley graphs as a framework to analyse gate counts and quantum costs resulting from reversible circuit synthesis. Several methods have been proposed in the reversible logic synthesis literature by considering different libraries whose gates are associated to the generating sets of certain Cayley graphs. In a Cayley graph, the distance between two vertices corresponds to the optimal circuit size. The lower bound for the diameter of Cayley graphs is also a lower bound for the worst case for any algorithm that uses the corresponding gate library. In this paper, we study two Cayley graphs on the Symmetric Group $S_{2^n}$: the first, denoted by $I_n$, is defined by a generating set associated to generalized Toffoli gates; and the second, the hypercube Cayley graph $H_n$, is defined by a generating set associated to multiple-control Toffoli gates. Those two Cayley graphs have degree $n2^{n-1}$ and order $2^n!$. Maslov, Dueck and Miller proposed a reversible circuit synthesis that we model by the Cayley graph $I_n$. We propose a synthesis algorithm based on the Cayley graph $H_n$ with upper bound of $(n-1)2^{n}+1$ multiple-control Toffoli gates. In addition, the diameter of the Cayley graph $H_n$ gives a lower bound of $n2^{n-1}$.

id: 1209.3302
title: Thermal Casimir effect in the interaction of graphene with dielectrics and metals
authors: M. Bordag, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 26 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.86, 165429 (2012)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3302
abstract: We investigate the thermal Casimir interaction of a suspended graphene described by the Dirac model with a plate made of dielectric or metallic materials. The reflection coefficients on graphene expressed in terms of a temperature-dependent polarization tensor are used. We demonstrate that for a graphene with nonzero mass gap parameter the Casimir free energy remains nearly constant (and the thermal correction negligibly small) over some temperature interval. For the interaction of graphene with metallic plate, the free energy is nearly the same, irrespective of whether the metal is nonmagnetic or magnetic and whether it is described using the Drude- or plasma-model approaches. The free energy computed using the Dirac model was compared with that computed using the hydrodynamic model of graphene and big differences accessible for experimental observation have been found. For dielectric and nonmagnetic metallic plates described by the Drude model these differences vanish with increasing temperature (separation). However, for nonmagnetic metals described by the plasma model and for magnetic metals, a severe dependence on the chosen theoretical description of graphene remains even at high temperature. In all cases the analytic asymptotic expressions for the free energy at high temperature are obtained and found in a very good agreement with the results of numerical computations.

id: 1209.3304
title: Constructing holographic spacetimes using entanglement renormalization
authors: Brian Swingle
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3304
abstract: We elaborate on our earlier proposal connecting entanglement renormalization and holographic duality in which we argued that a tensor network can be reinterpreted as a kind of skeleton for an emergent holographic space. Here we address the question of the large $N$ limit where on the holographic side the gravity theory becomes classical and a non-fluctuating smooth spacetime description emerges. We show how a number of features of holographic duality in the large $N$ limit emerge naturally from entanglement renormalization, including a classical spacetime generated by entanglement, a sparse spectrum of operator dimensions, and phase transitions in mutual information. We also address questions related to bulk locality below the AdS radius, holographic duals of weakly coupled large $N$ theories, Fermi surfaces in holography, and the holographic interpretation of branching MERA. Some of our considerations are inspired by the idea of quantum expanders which are generalized quantum transformations that add a definite amount of entropy to most states. Since we identify entanglement with geometry, we thus argue that classical spacetime may be built from quantum expanders (or something like them).

id: 1209.3317
title: Shear viscosity and spin sum rules in strongly interacting Fermi gases
authors: Tilman Enss
comments: 7 pages, published version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 217, 169-175 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3317
abstract: Fermi gases with short-range interactions are ubiquitous in ultracold atomic systems. In the absence of spin-flipping processes the number of atoms in each spin species is conserved separately, and we discuss the associated Ward identities. For contact interactions the spin conductivity spectral function sigma_s(omega) has universal power-law tails at high frequency. We derive the spin f-sum rule and show that it is not affected by these tails in d<4 dimensions. Likewise the shear viscosity spectral function eta(omega) has universal tails; in contrast they modify the viscosity sum rule in a characteristic way.

id: 1209.3354
title: Cavity Optomechanics with a Bose-Einstein Condensate: Normal Mode Splitting
authors: Muhammad Asjad
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 59:10, 917-922 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3354
abstract: We study the normal mode splitting in a system consisting of a Bose Einstein condensates (BECs) trapped inside a Fabry Perot cavity driven by a single mode laser field. We analyze the variations in frequency and damping rate of the collective density excitation of a BEC imparted by the optical field. We study the occurrence of normal mode splitting which appears as consequences of the hybridization of the fluctuations of the intracavity field and the condensate mode. It is shown that normal mode splitting vanishes for weak coupling between the condensate mode and the intracavity field. Moreover, we investigate the normal mode splitting in the transmission spectrum of the cavity field.

id: 1209.3375
title: Nuclear Quantum Many-Body Dynamics: From Collective Vibrations to Heavy-Ion Collisions
authors: C¨¦dric Simenel
comments: 49 pages. Review article to be published in EPJA. v.3: minor changes in Eqs. 2.50, A.13 and B.30
journal: Eur. Phys. J. A 48: 152 (2012)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3375
abstract: A summary of recent researches on nuclear dynamics with realistic microscopic quantum approaches is presented. The Balian-V\'en\'eroni variational principle is used to derive the time-dependent Hartree-Fock (TDHF) equation describing the dynamics at the mean-field level, as well as an extension including small-amplitude quantum fluctuations which is equivalent to the time-dependent random-phase approximation (TDRPA). Such formalisms as well as their practical implementation in the nuclear physics framework with modern three-dimensional codes are discussed. Recent applications to nuclear dynamics, from collective vibrations to heavy-ion collisions are presented. A particular attention is devoted to the interplay between collective motions and internal degrees of freedom. For instance, the harmonic nature of collective vibrations is questioned. Nuclei are also known to exhibit superfluidity due to pairing residual interaction. Extensions of the theoretical approach to study such pairing vibrations are now available. Large amplitude collective motions are investigated in the framework of heavy-ion collisions leading, for instance, to the formation of a compound system. How fusion is affected by the internal structure of the collision partners, such as their deformation, is discussed. Other mechanisms in competition with fusion, and responsible for the formation of fragments which differ from the entrance channel (transfer reactions, deep-inelastic collisions, and quasi-fission) are investigated. Finally, studies of actinide collisions forming, during very short times of few zeptoseconds, the heaviest nuclear systems available on Earth, are presented.

id: 1209.3413
title: Observation of the Larmor and Gouy Rotations with Electron Vortex Beams
authors: Giulio Guzzinati, Peter Schattschneider, Konstantin Bliokh, Franco Nori, Jo Verbeeck
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 093601 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3413
abstract: Electron vortex beams carrying intrinsic orbital angular momentum (OAM) are produced in electron microscopes where they are controlled and focused using magnetic lenses. We observe various rotational phenomena arising from the interaction between the OAM and magnetic lenses. First, the Zeeman coupling, proportional to the OAM and magnetic field strength, produces an OAM-independent Larmor rotation of a mode superposition inside the lens. Second, hen passing through the focal plane, the electron beam acquires an additional Gouy phase dependent on the absolute value of the OAM. This brings about the Gouy rotation of the superposition image proportional to the sign of the OAM. A combination of the Larmor and Gouy effects can result in the addition (or subtraction) of rotations, depending on the OAM sign. This behaviour is unique to electron vortex beams and has no optical counterpart, as Larmor rotation occurs only for charged particles. Our experimental results are in agreement with recent theoretical predictions.

id: 1209.3430
title: All-Possible-Couplings Approach to Measuring Probabilistic Context
authors: E. N. Dzhafarov, J. V. Kujala
comments: under review; 11 pages including 2 appendices and 1 figure and 1 table; last version: major expository changes
journal: PLoS ONE 8(5): e61712 (2013)
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3430
abstract: From behavioral sciences to biology to quantum mechanics, one encounters situations where (i) a system outputs several random variables in response to several inputs, (ii) for each of these responses only some of the inputs may "directly" influence them, but (iii) other inputs provide a "context" for this response by influencing its probabilistic relations to other responses. These contextual influences are very different, say, in classical kinetic theory and in the entanglement paradigm of quantum mechanics, which are traditionally interpreted as representing different forms of physical determinism. One can mathematically construct systems with other types of contextuality, whether or not empirically realizable: those that form special cases of the classical type, those that fall between the classical and quantum ones, and those that violate the quantum type. We show how one can quantify and classify all logically possible contextual influences by studying various sets of probabilistic couplings, i.e., sets of joint distributions imposed on random outputs recorded at different (mutually incompatible) values of inputs.

id: 1209.3465
title: Regularization just by quantization -- a new approach to the old problem of infinities in quantum field theory (Draft of lecture notes)
authors: Marek Czachor
comments: 172 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3465
abstract: This is the current form of lecture notes on my approach to field quantization. I explain on a simple scalar-field model the physical motivation and show some preliminary applications (field produced by a pointlike charge, the vacuum-to-vacuum loop diagram, the Casimir presure). The approach is based on an appropriate construction of a representation of harmonic-oscillator Lie algebra and a sequential definition of Dirac deltas.

id: 1209.3472
title: Complex Covariance
authors: F. Kleefeld
comments: 21 pages, no figures; manuscript presented on the DI microconference "Analytic and algebraic methods in physics X" (AAMP 10) during June 4-7,2012, at the Villa Lanna, Prague, Czech Republic (this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3472
abstract: According to some generalized correspondence principle the classical limit of a non-Hermitian Quantum theory describing quantum degrees of freedom is expected to be well known classical mechanics of classical degrees of freedom in the complex phase space, i.e., some phase space spanned by complex-valued space and momentum coordinates. As special relativity has been developed by Einstein merely for real-valued space-time and four-momentum we will try to understand how special relativity and covariance can be extended to complex-valued space-time and four-momentum. Our considerations will lead us not only to some unconventional derivation of Lorentz transformations for complex-valued velocities, yet also to the non-Hermitian Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations which are to lay the foundations of a non-Hermitian quantum theory.

id: 1209.3500
title: Duality analysis on random planar lattice
authors: Masayuki Ohzeki, Keisuke Fujii
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3500
abstract: The conventional duality analysis is employed to identify a location of a critical point on a uniform lattice without any disorder in its structure. In the present study, we deal with the random planar lattice, which consists of the randomized structure based on the square lattice. We introduce the uniformly random modification by the bond dilution and contraction on a part of the unit square. The random planar lattice includes the triangular and hexagonal lattices in extreme cases of a parameter to control the structure. The duality analysis in a modern fashion with real-space renormalization is found to be available for estimating the location of the critical points with wide range of the randomness parameter. As a simple testbed, we demonstrate that our method indeed gives several critical points for the cases of the Ising and Potts models, and the bond-percolation thresholds on the random planar lattice. Our method leads to not only such an extension of the duality analyses on the classical statistical mechanics but also a fascinating result associated with optimal error thresholds for a class of quantum error correction code, the surface code on the random planar lattice, which known as a skillful technique to protect the quantum state.

id: 1209.3506
title: Time-resolved resonant photoionization of He using a time-dependent Feshbach method with ultrashort laser pulses
authors: C. M. Granados-Castro, J. L. Sanz-Vicario
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures. Submitted to: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3506
abstract: We study the photoionization and autoionization of Helium atom subject to ultrashort laser pulses by using a Feshbach formalism in the time domain. We solve the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation in terms of a configuration interaction (CI) spectral method, in which the total wavefunction is expanded with configurations defined within bound-like ($\mathcal{Q}$) and scattering-like ($\mathcal{P}$) halfspaces. The method allowsone to provide accurate descriptions of both the atomic structure (energy positions and widths) and the photodynamics. We illustrate our approach by i) calculating the time-resolved one-photon ionization below the He$^+$ ($n$=2) ionization threshold, from $1^1S^e$ and $2 ^1P^o$ initial states, then reaching the lowest autoionizing states of $^1S^e$, $^1P^o$ and $^1D^e$ final symmetries ii) studing the temporal formation of the Fano profile of $^1P^o$ resonances and iii) showing its performance in obtaining the perturbative long-time limit of one- and two-photon ionization cross sections using ultrashort laser pulses following a recently developed procedure in Phys. Rev. A, {\bf 77}, 032716 (2008).

id: 1209.3626
title: Coherent Cooper-pair pumping by magnetic flux control
authors: S. Gasparinetti, I. Kamleitner
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 224510 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3626
abstract: We introduce and discuss a scheme for Cooper-pair pumping. The scheme relies on the coherent transfer of a superposition of charge states across a superconducting island and is realized by adiabatic manipulation of magnetic fluxes. Differently from previous implementations, it does not require any modulation of electrostatic potentials. We find a peculiar dependence of the pumped charge on the superconducting phase bias across the pump and that an arbitrarily large amount of charge can be pumped in a single cycle when the phase bias is {\pi}. We explain these features and their relation to the adiabatic theorem.

id: 1209.3675
title: Entropic fluctuations in XY chains and reflectionless Jacobi matrices
authors: V. Jaksic, B. Landon, C.-A. Pillet
comments: 
journal: Ann. Henri Poincar\'e 14 (2013), 1775-1800
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3675
abstract: We study the entropic fluctuations of a general XY spin chain where initially the left(x<0)/right(x>0) part of the chain is in thermal equilibrium at inverse temperature Tl/Tr. The temperature differential results in a non-trivial energy/entropy flux across the chain. The Evans-Searles (ES) entropic functional describes fluctuations of the flux observable with respect to the initial state while the Gallavotti-Cohen (GC) functional describes these fluctuations with respect to the steady state (NESS) the chain reaches in the large time limit. We also consider the full counting statistics (FCS) of the energy/entropy flux associated to a repeated measurement protocol, the variational entropic functional (VAR) that arises as the quantization of the variational characterization of the classical Evans-Searles functional and a natural class of entropic functionals that interpolate between FCS and VAR. We compute these functionals in closed form in terms of the scattering data of the Jacobi matrix h canonically associated to the XY chain. We show that all these functionals are identical if and only if h is reflectionless (we call this phenomenon entropic identity). If h is not reflectionless, then the ES and GC functionals remain equal but differ from the FCS, VAR and interpolating functionals. Furthermore, in the non-reflectionless case, the ES/GC functional does not vanish at 1 (i.e., the Kawasaki identity fails) and does not have the celebrated ES/GC symmetry. The FCS, VAR and interpolating functionals always have this symmetry. In the cases where h is a Schr\"odinger operator, the entropic identity leads to some unexpected open problems in the spectral theory of one-dimensional discrete Schr\"odinger operators.

id: 1209.3809
title: Trajectory-based interpretation of Young's experiment, the Arago-Fresnel laws and the Poisson-Arago spot for photons and massive particles
authors: M. Davidovic, A. S. Sanz, M. Bozic, D. Arsenovic, D. Dimic
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. T153, 014015 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3809
abstract: We present a trajectory based interpretation for Young's experiment, the Arago-Fresnel laws and the Poisson-Arago spot. This approach is based on the equation of the trajectory associated with the quantum probability current density in the case of massive particles, and the Poynting vector for the electromagnetic field in the case of photons. Both the form and properties of the evaluated photon trajectories are in good agreement with the averaged trajectories of single photons observed recently in Young's experiment by Steinberg's group at the University of Toronto. In the case of the Arago-Fresnel laws for polarized light, the trajectory interpretation presented here differs from those interpretations based on the concept of "which-way" (or "which-slit") information and quantum erasure. More specifically, the observer's information about the slit that photons went through is not relevant to the existence of interference; what is relevant is the form of the electromagnetic energy density and its evolution, which will model consequently the distribution of trajectories and their topology. Finally, we also show that the distributions of end points of a large number of evaluated photon trajectories are in agreement with the distributions measured at the screen behind a circular disc, clearly giving rise to the Poisson-Arago spot.

id: 1209.3857
title: High-precision atomic clocks with highly charged ions: nuclear spin-zero $f^{12}$-shell ions
authors: V.A. Dzuba, A. Derevianko, V. V. Flambaum
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3857
abstract: Optical atomic clocks using highly-charged ions hold an intriguing promise of metrology at the 19th significant figure. Here we study transitions within the $4f^{12}$ ground-state electronic configuration of highly charged ions. We consider isotopes lacking hyperfine structure and show that the detrimental effects of coupling of electronic quadrupole moments to gradients of trapping electric field can be effectively reduced by using specially chosen virtual clock transitions. The estimated systematic fractional clock accuracy is shown to be below $10^{-19}$.

id: 1209.3881
title: The excitation operator approach to non-Markovian dynamics of quantum impurity models in the Kondo regime
authors: Pei Wang
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 86, 494 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3881
abstract: We present a numerical method for studying the real time dynamics of a small interacting quantum system coupled to an infinite fermionic reservoir. By building an orthonormal basis in the operator space, we turn the Heisenberg equation of motion into a system of linear differential equations, which is then solved iteratively by constructing excitation operators. The application of our method depends on a layer structure in the operator space, which help us to turn an infinite linear system into a series of small systems. We apply the method to investigate the decoherence dynamics of quantum impurity models in the Kondo regime with a non-Markovian reservoir. Taking full account of environmental back-actions and electron-electron interactions, we find that the coexistence of the Kondo correlation and a non-Markovian reservoir induces coherence ringings, which will be suppressed by either driving the system away from the particle-hole symmetric point or changing the reservoir into a Markovian one.

id: 1209.3942
title: Probing thermoelectric transport with cold atoms
authors: Charles Grenier, Corinna Kollath, Antoine Georges
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Modified version, after some modifications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3942
abstract: We propose experimental protocols to reveal thermoelectric and thermal effects in the transport properties of ultracold fermionic atoms, using the two-terminal setup recently realized at ETH. We show in particular that, for two reservoirs having equal particle numbers but different temperatures initially, the observation of a transient particle number imbalance during equilibration is a direct evidence of thermoelectric (off-diagonal) transport coefficients. This is a time-dependent analogue of the Seebeck effect, and a corresponding analogue of the Peltier effect can be proposed. We reveal that in addition to the thermoelectric coupling of the constriction a thermoelectric coupling also arises due to the finite dilatation coefficient of the reservoirs. We present a theoretical analysis of the protocols, and assess their feasibility by estimating the corresponding temperature and particle number imbalances in realistic current experimental conditions.

id: 1209.4030
title: Long Lived NMR Signal in Bone
authors: Boyang Zhang, Jae-Seung Lee, Anatoly Khitrin, Alexej Jerschow
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Journal of Magnetic Resonance 231, 2013, 1-4
subjects: Medical Physics (physics.med-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4030
abstract: Solids and rigid tissues such as bone, ligaments, and tendons, typically appear dark in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which is due to the extremely short-lived proton nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) signals. This short lifetime is due to strong dipolar interactions between immobilized proton spins, which render it challenging to detect these signals with sufficient resolution and sensitivity. Here we show the possibility of exciting long-lived signals in cortical bone tissue with a signature consistent with that of bound water signals. Contrary to long-standing belief, it is further shown that dipolar coupling networks are an integral requirement for the excitation of these long-lived signals. The use of these signals could enhance the ability to visualize rigid tissues and solid samples with high sensitivity, resolution, and specificity via MRI.

id: 1209.4076
title: Far from equilibrium quantum magnetism with ultracold polar molecules
authors: Kaden R. A. Hazzard, Salvatore R. Manmana, Michael Foss-Feig, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 6+ pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 075301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4076
abstract: Recent theory has indicated how to emulate tunable models of quantum magnetism with ultracold polar molecules. Here we show that present molecule optical lattice experiments can accomplish three crucial goals for quantum emulation, despite currently being well below unit filling and not quantum degenerate. The first is to verify and benchmark the models proposed to describe these systems. The second is to prepare correlated and possibly useful states in well-understood regimes. The third is to explore many-body physics inaccessible to existing theoretical techniques. Our proposal relies on a non-equilibrium protocol that can be viewed either as Ramsey spectroscopy or an interaction quench. It uses only routine experimental tools available in any ultracold molecule experiment.

id: 1209.4151
title: Singular Isotonic Oscillator, Supersymmetry and Superintegrability
authors: Ian Marquette
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 063, 14 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4151
abstract: In the case of a one-dimensional nonsingular Hamiltonian $H$ and a singular supersymmetric partner $H_a$, the Darboux and factorization relations of supersymmetric quantum mechanics can be only formal relations. It was shown how we can construct an adequate partner by using infinite barriers placed where are located the singularities on the real axis and recover isospectrality. This method was applied to superpartners of the harmonic oscillator with one singularity. In this paper, we apply this method to the singular isotonic oscillator with two singularities on the real axis. We also applied these results to four 2D superintegrable systems with second and third-order integrals of motion obtained by Gravel for which polynomial algebras approach does not allow to obtain the energy spectrum of square integrable wavefunctions. We obtain solutions involving parabolic cylinder functions.

id: 1209.4194
title: Observing the nonclassical nature of ultra-broadband bi-photons at ultrafast speed
authors: Yaakov Shaked, Roey Pomerantz, Rafi Z. Vered, Avi Pe'er
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4194
abstract: We observe at record-high speed the nonclassical nature of ultra-broadband bi-photons, reducing the measurement time by four orders of magnitude compared to standard techniques of Hong-Ou-Mandel interference or sum-frequency generation. We measure the quantum state of the broadband bi-photons, amplitude and phase, with a pairwise "Mach-Zehnder" quantum interferometer, where bi-photons that are generated in one nonlinear crystal are enhanced (constructive interference) or diminished (destructive interference) in another crystal, depending on the bi-photon phase. We verify the quantum nature of the interference by observing the dependence of the fringe visibility on internal loss. Since destructive interference is equivalent to an attempt to annihilate in the second crystal (by up-conversion) the bi-photons that were created in the first crystal (by down-conversion), the fringe visibility is a measure for the quantum bi-photon purity of the broadband light. The measurement speed-up is due to the large homodyne-like gain from the strong pump ($\!\sim\!10^{7-9}$) in the up-conversion efficiency of single bi-photons, which enables the use of simple photo-detection of the full, ultra-high photon flux instead of single-photon / coincidence counting.

id: 1209.4196
title: Longitudinal waves in electrically polarized quantum Fermi gas: quantum hydrodynamics approximation
authors: P. A. Andreev
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4196
abstract: The method of many-particle quantum hydrodynamics has been recently developed, particularly this method has been used for an electrically polarized Bose-Einstein condensate. In this paper, we present the development of this method for an electrically polarized three dimensional Fermi gas. We derive corresponding dynamical equations: equation polarization and equation of polarization current evolution as well as the Euler and continuity equations. We study dispersion dependencies of collective excitations in a polarized Fermi gas and consider interference of an equilibrium polarization on dispersion properties.

id: 1209.4318
title: Observation of electromagnetically induced transparency in evanescent fields
authors: R. Thomas, C. Kupchak, G. S. Agarwal, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: Optics Express 21, 6880 - 6888 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4318
abstract: We observe and investigate, both experimentally and theoretically, electromagnetically-induced transparency experienced by evanescent fields arising due to total internal reflection from an interface of glass and hot rubidium vapor. This phenomenon manifests itself as a non-Lorentzian peak in the reflectivity spectrum, which features a sharp cusp with a sub-natural width of about 1 MHz. The width of the peak is independent of the thickness of the interaction region, which indicates that the main source of decoherence is likely due to collisions with the cell walls rather than diffusion of atoms. With the inclusion of a coherence-preserving wall coating, this system could be used as an ultra-compact frequency reference.

id: 1209.4374
title: On the Uniqueness of Kinematics of Loop Quantum Cosmology
authors: Abhay Ashtekar, Miguel Campiglia
comments: 9 pages
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29, 242001 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4374
abstract: The holonomy-flux algebra $\A$ of loop quantum gravity is known to admit a natural representation that is uniquely singled out by the requirement of covariance under spatial diffeomorphisms. In the cosmological context, the requirement of spatial homogeneity naturally reduces $\A$ to a much smaller algebra, $\A_{\rm Red}$, used in loop quantum cosmology. In Bianchi I models, it is shown that the requirement of covariance under \emph{residual} diffeomorphism symmetries again uniquely selects the representation of $\A_{\rm Red}$ that has been commonly used. We discuss the close parallel between the two uniqueness results and also point out a difference.

id: 1209.4402
title: Finite Temperature Dipolar ultra-cold Bose gas with Exchange Interactions
authors: S. C. Cormack, D. A. W. Hutchinson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4402
abstract: We develop finite temperature theory for a trapped dipolar Bose gas including thermal exchange interactions. Previous treatments neglected these, difficult to compute, terms. We present a methodology for numerically evaluating the thermal exchange contributions, making use of cylindrical symmetry. We then investigate properties of the dipolar gas, including calculating the excitation spectrum over the full range of trap anisotropy. We evaluate the contributions due to thermal exchange noting that, under some regimes, these effects can be at least as significant as the direct interaction. We therefore provide guidance as to when these cumbersome terms can be neglected and when care should be exercised regarding their omission.

id: 1209.4409
title: Nonperturbative Quantum Field Theory in Astrophysics
authors: Dan Mazur
comments: PhD Thesis, 289 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4409
abstract: The extreme electromagnetic or gravitational fields associated with some astrophysical objects can give rise to macroscopic effects arising from the physics of the quantum vacuum. Therefore, these objects are incredible laboratories for exploring the physics of quantum field theories. In this dissertation, we explore this idea in three astrophysical scenarios.

id: 1209.4426
title: Coherence dynamics of kicked Bose-Hubbard dimers: Interferometric signatures of chaos
authors: Christine Khripkov, Doron Cohen, Amichay Vardi
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 012910 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4426
abstract: We study the coherence dynamics of a kicked two-mode Bose-Hubbard model starting with an arbitrary coherent spin preparation. For preparations in the chaotic regions of phase-space we find a generic behavior with Flouquet participation numbers that scale as the entire $N$-particle Hilbert space, leading to a rapid loss of single particle coherence. However, the chaotic behavior is not uniform throughout the chaotic sea, and unique statistics is found for preparations at the vicinity of hyperbolic points that are embedded in it. This is contrasted with the low log(N) participation that is responsible for the revivals at the vicinity of isolated hyperbolic instabilities.

id: 1209.4441
title: Chaos-induced transparency in an ultrahigh-Q optical microcavity
authors: Yun-Feng Xiao, Xue-Feng Jiang, Qi-Fan Yang, Li Wang, Kebin Shi, Yan Li, Qihuang Gong
comments: 5 pages, 5 figues
journal: Laser & Photonics Reviews 7(5), L51(2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4441
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally a new form of induced transparency, i.e., chaos-induced transparency, in a slightly deformed microcavity which support both continuous chaotic modes and discrete regular modes with Q factors exceeding 3X?10^7. When excited by a focused laser beam, the induced transparency in the transmission spectrum originates from the destructive interference of two parallel optical pathways: (i) directly refractive excitation of the chaotic modes, and (ii) excitation of the ultra-high-Q regular mode via chaos-assisted dynamical tunneling mechanism coupling back to the chaotic modes. By controlling the focal position of the laser beam, the induced transparency experiences a highly tunable Fano-like asymmetric lineshape. The experimental results are modeled by a quantum scattering theory and show excellent agreement. This chaos-induced transparency is accompanied by extremely steep normal dispersion, and may open up new possibilities a dramatic slow light behavior and a significant enhancement of nonlinear interactions.

id: 1209.4470
title: Electromechanically induced absorption in a circuit nano-electromechanical system
authors: Fredrik Hocke, Xiaoqing Zhou, Albert Schliesser, Tobias J. Kippenberg, Hans Huebl, Rudolf Gross
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 123037 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4470
abstract: A detailed analysis of electromechanically induced absorption (EMIA) in a circuit nano-electromechanical hybrid system consisting of a superconducting microwave resonator coupled to a nanomechanical beam is presented. By performing two-tone spectroscopy experiments we have studied EMIA as a function of the drive power over a wide range of drive and probe tone detunings. We find good quantitative agreement between experiment and theoretical modeling based on the Hamiltonian formulation of a generic electromechanical system. We show that the absorption of microwave signals in an extremely narrow frequency band (\Delta\omega/2\pi <5 Hz) around the cavity resonance of about 6 GHz can be adjusted over a range of more than 25 dB on varying the drive tone power by a factor of two. Possible applications of this phenomenon include notch filters to cut out extremely narrow frequency bands (< Hz) of a much broader band of the order of MHz defined by the resonance width of the microwave cavity. The amount of absorption as well as the filtered frequency is tunable over the full width of the microwave resonance by adjusting the power and frequency of the drive field. At high drive power we observe parametric microwave amplification with the nanomechanical resonator. Due to the very low loss rate of the nanomechanical beam the drive power range for parametric amplification is narrow, since the beam rapidly starts to perform self-oscillations.

id: 1209.4552
title: Bi-functional nonlinearities in monodisperse ZnO nano-grains - Self-consistent transport and random lasing
authors: Andreas Lubatsch, Regine Frank
comments: AIP (accepted)
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4552
abstract: We report a quantum field theoretical description of light transport and random lasing. The Bethe-Salpeter equation is solved including maximally crossed diagrams and non-elastic scattering. This is the first theoretical framework that combines so called off-shell scattering and lasing in random media. We present results for the self-consistent scattering mean free path that varies over the width of the sample. Further we discuss the density dependent correlation length of self-consistent transport in disordered media composed of semi-conductor Mie scatterers.

id: 1209.4553
title: Universal three-body recombination via resonant d-wave interactions
authors: Jia Wang, J. P. D'Incao, Yujun Wang, Chris H. Greene
comments: 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062511 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4553
abstract: For a system of three identical bosons interacting via short-range forces, when two of the atoms are about to form a two-body s-wave dimer, there exists an infinite number of three-body bound states. This effect is the well-known Efimov effect. These three-body states (Efimov states) are found to be universal for ultracold atomic gases and the lowest Efimov state crosses the three-body break-up threshold when the s-wave two-body scattering length is $a \approx -9.73 r_{\rm vdW}$, $r_{\rm vdW}$ being the van der Waals length. This article focuses on a generalized version of this Efimov scenario, where two of the atoms are about to form a two-body d-wave dimer, which leads to strong d-wave interactions. In a recent paper [B. Gao, Phys. Rev. A. {\bf 62}, 050702(R) (2000)], Bo Gao has predicted that for broad resonances the d-wave dimer is always formed near $a \approx 0.956 r_{\rm vdW}$. Here we find that a single universal three-body state associated with the d-wave dimer is also formed near the three-body break-up threshold at $a \approx 1.09 r_{\rm vdW}$ and its signature can be found through enhancement of the three-body recombination. The three-body effective potential curves that are crucial for understanding the recombination dynamics are also calculated and analyzed. An improved method to calculate the couplings, effective potential curves, and recombination rate coefficients is presented.

id: 1209.4567
title: Quench dynamics in spin crossover induced by high pressure
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, Sergey G. Ovchinnikov
comments: 7 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4567
abstract: In this paper we have studied analytically and numerically dynamics of spin crossover induced by time-dependent pressure. We show that quasi static pressure, with a slow dependence on time, yields a spin crossover leading to transition from the state of quantum system with high spin (HS) to the low spin (LS). However, a quench dynamics under shock-wave load is more complicated. The final state of the system depends on the amplitude and pulse velocity, resulting in the mixture of the HS and LS states.

id: 1209.4593
title: Thin films versus 2D sheets in layered structures: graphene and 2D metallic sheets
authors: Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1204.6150
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4593
abstract: We study an interface between two media separated by a strictly 2D sheet. We show how the amplitude reflection coefficient can be modeled by that for an interface where the 2D sheet has been replaced by a film of small but finite thickness. We give the relationship between the 3D dielectric function of the thin film and the 2D dielectric function of the sheet. We choose graphene and a 2D metallic sheet as illustrative examples. This approach turns out to be very useful when treating graphene or graphene like sheets in non-planar structures

id: 1209.4644
title: Quantum criticality of reconstructing Fermi surfaces in antiferromagnetic metals
authors: Junhyun Lee, Philipp Strack, Subir Sachdev
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review B 87, 045104 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4644
abstract: We present a functional renormalization group analysis of a quantum critical point in two-dimensional metals involving Fermi surface reconstruction due to the onset of spin-density wave order. Its critical theory is controlled by a fixed point in which the order parameter and fermionic quasiparticles are strongly coupled and acquire spectral functions with a common dynamic critical exponent. We obtain results for critical exponents and for the variation in the quasiparticle spectral weight around the Fermi surface. Our analysis is implemented on a two-band variant of the spin-fermion model which will allow comparison with sign-problem-free quantum Monte Carlo simulations.

id: 1209.4646
title: Entanglement Entropy in Scalar Field Theory
authors: Mark P. Hertzberg
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, v2: Updated to resemble published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 015402
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4646
abstract: Understanding the dependence of entanglement entropy on the renormalized mass in quantum field theories can provide insight into phenomena such as quantum phase transitions, since the mass varies in a singular way near the transition. Here we perturbatively calculate the entanglement entropy in interacting scalar field theory, focussing on the dependence on the field's mass. We study lambda phi^4 and g phi^3 theories in their ground state. By tracing over a half space, using the replica trick and position space Green's functions on the cone, we show that space-time volume divergences cancel and renormalization can be consistently performed in this conical geometry. We establish finite contributions to the entanglement entropy up to two-loop order, involving a finite area law. The resulting entropy is simple and intuitive: the free theory result in d=3 (that we included in an earlier publication) Delta S ~ A m^2 ln(m^2) is altered, to leading order, by replacing the bare mass m by the renormalized mass m_r evaluated at the renormalization scale of zero momentum.

id: 1209.4715
title: Simultaneous remote transfer of accurate timing and optical frequency over a public fiber network
authors: Olivier Lopez, Amale Kanj, Paul-Eric Pottie, Giovanni D. Rovera, Joseph Achkar, Christian Chardonnet, Anne Amy-Klein, Giorgio Santarelli
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics B: Lasers and Optics 110, 1 (2013) 3-6
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4715
abstract: In this work we demonstrate for the first time that it is possible to transfer simultaneously an ultra-stable optical frequency and a precise and accurate timing over 540 km using a public telecommunication optical fiber networks with Internet data. The optical phase is used to carry both the frequency information and the timestamps by modulating a very narrow optical carrier at 1.55 $\mu$m with spread spectrum signals using two-way satellite time transfer modems. The results in term of absolute time accuracy (250 ps) and long-term timing stability (20 ps) well outperform the conventional Global Navigation Satellite System or geostationary transfer methods.

id: 1209.4725
title: Influence of external magnetic and laser radiation fields on Feshbach resonances in collision of atoms
authors: E. A. Gazazyan, A. D. Gazazyan, V. O. Chaltykyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4725
abstract: We study collision of two atoms with formation of Feshbach resonance at combined interaction with the external magnetic field and laser radiation. In cases of one- and two-photon resonances of laser radiation with two discrete vibrational molecular levels, we show that Feshbach resonances appear at interaction of external magnetic field with dressed states formed via Autler-Townes effect. In addition, in case of one-photon resonance the lower vibrational molecular state is coupled by laser radiation with the continuum of the elastic channel and forms laser-induced Feshbach resonance via both Autler-Townes effect and LICS mechanism. We study the combined process of formation of Feshbach resonances; this enables the control of Feshbach resonance by varying the magnetic field and intensity and frequency of laser radiation. We obtain the cross-sections of elastic and inelastic scattering and show that quenching of resonance occurs at the energy equal to that of the systems ground state. Dependence of the cross-sections on the magnetic field and laser intensity is examined in detail. In all considered cases, the scattering length is obtained depending on the magnetic and laser fields are studied. In the absence of magnetic interaction if the hyperfine substates of the quasibound state in the closed channel and those of individual colliding atoms in the open channel are the same, Feshbach resonances may arise via weak interaction between nuclear and electronic motions, which leads to transitions between electronic states. The obtained results can be employed in new studies of collisions of cold atoms, e.g., of alkali metal atoms and for interpretation of new experiments in BECs.

id: 1209.4730
title: Mesoscopic Entanglement Induced by Spontaneous Emission in Solid-State Quantum Optics
authors: A. Gonzalez-Tudela, D. Porras
comments: 3 figures, Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 080502 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4730
abstract: Implementations of solid state quantum optics provide us with devices where qubits are placed at fixed positions in photonic or plasmonic one dimensional waveguides. We show that solely by controlling the position of the qubits and with the help of a coherent driving, collective spontaneous decay may be engineered to yield an entangled mesoscopic steady-state. Our scheme relies on the realization of pure superradiant Dicke models by a destructive interference that cancels dipole-dipole interactions in one-dimension.

id: 1209.4736
title: Quasi-exact solvability, resonances and trivial monodromy in ordinary differential equations
authors: Patrick Dorey, Clare Dunning, Roberto Tateo
comments: 14 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4736
abstract: A correspondence between the sextic anharmonic oscillator and a pair of third-order ordinary differential equations is used to investigate the phenomenon of quasi-exact solvability for eigenvalue problems involving differential operators with order greater than two. In particular, links with Bender-Dunne polynomials and resonances between independent solutions are observed for certain second-order cases, and extended to the higher-order problems.

id: 1209.4774
title: Squeezed states and Symplectic transformations
authors: C. V. Sukumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4774
abstract: It is shown that the time evolution of the squeezed and displaced state may be obtained by solving the Heisenberg equation of motion of an appropriate operator and finding the eigenstates of the time evolved operator. The connection between symplectic transformations and squeezing is explored.

id: 1209.4801
title: On the additivity of the minimum output entropy
authors: Norbert Riedel
comments: Paper withdrawn due to the erroneous Lemma 1.2
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4801
abstract: It is shown that for real finite dimensional Hilbert spaces the additivity property of the minimum output entropy for quantum channels is always true.

id: 1209.4878
title: Electron-Phonon Scattering in Planar MOSFETs: NEGF and Monte Carlo Methods
authors: Himadri S. Pal, Dmitri E. Nikonov, Raseong Kim, Mark S. Lundstrom
comments: 30 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4878
abstract: A formalism for incorporating electron-phonon scattering into the nonequilibrium Green's function (NEGF) framework that is applicable to planar MOSFETs is presented. Restructuring the NEGF equations in terms of approximate summation of transverse momentum modes leads to a rigorous and efficient method of solution. This helps to drastically reduce the computational complexity, allowing treatment of both quantum mechanics and dissipative electron-phonon scattering processes for device sizes from nanometers to microns. The formalism is systematically benchmarked against Monte Carlo solutions of the classical Boltzmann transport for model potential profiles. Results show a remarkably close agreement between the two methods for variety of channel lengths and bias conditions, both for elastic and inelastic scattering processes.

id: 1209.4880
title: Fluctuation electromagnetic interaction between rotating spherical nanoparticles. 1. Nonrelativistic theory
authors: A. A. Kyasov, G. V. Dedkov
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4880
abstract: For the first time, using nonrelativistic approach we have calculated the attraction force, friction torque and the rate of radiation heat exchange in the system of two sprerical rotating particles located at a distance between one another.

id: 1209.5007
title: A tunable coupler with ScS quantum point contact to mediate strong interaction between flux qubits
authors: A.A. Soroka, V.I. Shnyrkov
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures; figure, text, references added
journal: JLTP 172, 212 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5007
abstract: In this paper we propose a kind of quantum inductance couplers (QUINC) which represents a superconducting loop closed by ScS quantum point contact, operating in deep quantum low-temperature regime to provide tunable (Ising-type) ZZ interaction between flux qubits. This coupler is shown to be well tunable by an external control magnetic flux and to provide large inter-qubit interaction energies $|J/k_{\rm B}|\simeq1$ K thus being very promising as a qubit-coupling device in a quantum register as well as for studying fundamental low-temperature quantum phenomena. Some entanglement measures of a two-qubit system are analyzed as functions of inter-qubit interaction strength.

id: 1209.5085
title: Modern foundations for thermodynamics and the stringy limit of black hole equilibria
authors: Bernard S. Kay
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5085
abstract: We recall the existing string theory understanding of black hole entropy and argue it is incomplete but we put forward a modified version, based on the author's 'matter-gravity entanglement hypothesis', which, we claim, gives a more satisfactory understanding and also a resolution to the Information Loss Puzzle. This hypothesis pictures a black hole equilibrium as an, overall pure, state, with given energy, consisting of a black hole with its (mostly matter) atmosphere in a box and identifies the black hole's entropy with the pure state's matter-gravity entanglement entropy. We assume this equilibrium goes over, at weak string-coupling, to a pure state with similar energy consisting of a long string with a stringy atmosphere and that the matter-gravity entanglement entropy goes over to the entanglement entropy between (approximately) the long string and the stringy atmosphere. We also recall recent work (in a non-gravitational context) towards modern foundations for thermodynamics, where, in place of a total microcanonical ensemble, one assumes that a total system, consisting of a small (sub)system and an energy bath, is in a (random) pure state with energy in a given narrow range and shows that the small subsystem will then find itself in a thermal state. We present a new set of formulae, obtained in a companion paper, which generalize the setting of that work to cases where the system and energy bath are of comparable size. We apply these formulae to a model for our string equilibrium where the densities of states of the long string (replacing our energy bath) and stringy atmosphere (replacing our system) both grow exponentially. We find, for our picture of black hole equilibrium, a temperature of the order of the Hawking temperature and an entropy of the order of the Hawking entropy thus adding to the evidence for the viablity of our matter-gravity entanglement hypothesis.

id: 1209.5102
title: The nontrivial role of interfacial or film-thickness in a magnetic field at a one-electron and a one-Composite Fermion level
authors: G. Konstantinou, K. Moulopoulos
comments: 62 pages, 88 figures, abstract abridged
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5102
abstract: By developing a canonical approach that is exact, physically transparent and subtly different from standard methods, we present a systematic study with exact analytical calculations based on a Landau Level (LL) picture of the energetics of a many-electron system in an interface (or film) and in the presence of a uniform and perpendicular magnetic field, by seriously taking into account the finite thickness of the Quantum Well (QW) along the field. We find internal phase transitions (i.e. at partial LL filling) for the global magnetization and magnetic susceptibility that are not captured by other approaches, and that give rise to nontrivial corrections to the standard de Haas-van Alphen periods (but in a manner that reproduces the exact quantal deviations from the semiclassical periodicity in the limit of the full 3D space, a problem mostly discussed in astrophysical applications and which we independently solve analytically as well for comparison). Additional features upon inclusion of Zeeman splitting are also found (such as certain energy minima that originate from the interplay of QW, Zeeman and LL Physics in the full 3D problem), while a corresponding calculation in a Composite Fermion picture (with Lambda-Levels) leads to new predictions on magnetic response properties of a fully-interacting electron liquid in a finite-thickness interface; these exhibit a richer and more delicate structure than the mere monotonic reduction of gaps with thickness reported long ago, a structure possibly detectable with present day technology. Finally, by pursuing the same line of reasoning for a topologically nontrivial system (with a relativistic spectrum, spin-orbit interactions and strong coupling between thickness and planar motion) we find evidence that similar effects may be operative in the dimensionality crossover of 3D strong topological insulators to 2D topological insulator quantum wells

id: 1209.5115
title: Seeing Majorana fermions in time-of-flight images of spinless fermions coupled by s-wave pairing
authors: Jiannis K. Pachos, Emilio Alba, Ville Lahtinen, Juan J. Garcia-Ripoll
comments: 9+4 pages, 11 figures, expanded version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013622 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5115
abstract: The Chern number, nu, as a topological invariant that identifies the winding of the ground state in the particle-hole space, is a definitive theoretical signature that determines whether a given superconducting system can support Majorana zero modes. Here we show that such a winding can be faithfully identified for any superconducting system (p-wave or s-wave with spin-orbit coupling) through a set of time-of-flight measurements, making it a diagnostic tool also in actual cold atom experiments. As an application, we specialize the measurement scheme for a chiral topological model of spinless fermions. The proposed model only requires the experimentally accessible s-wave pairing and staggered tunnelling that mimics spin-orbit coupling. By adiabatically connecting this model to Kitaev's honeycomb lattice model, we show that it gives rise to nu = \pm 1 phases, where vortices bind Majorana fermions, and nu=\pm 2 phases that emerge as the unique collective state of such vortices. Hence, the preparation of these phases and the detection of their Chern numbers provide an unambiguous signature for the presence of Majorana modes. Finally, we demonstrate that our detection procedure is resilient against most inaccuracies in experimental control parameters as well as finite temperature.

id: 1209.5195
title: Probing of optical near-fields by electron rescattering on the 1 nm scale
authors: Sebastian Thomas, Michael Kr¨¹ger, Michael F?rster, Markus Schenk, Peter Hommelhoff
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5195
abstract: We present a new method of measuring optical near-fields within ~1 nm of a metal surface, based on rescattering of photoemitted electrons. With this method, we precisely measure the field enhancement factor for tungsten and gold nanotips as a function of tip radius. The agreement with Maxwell simulations is very good. Further simulations yield a field enhancement map for all materials, which shows that optical near-fields at nanotips are governed by a geometric effect under most conditions, while plasmon resonances play only a minor role. Last, we consider the implications of our results on quantum mechanical effects near the surface of nanostructures and discuss features of quantum plasmonics.

id: 1209.5204
title: Quantum dynamics and macroscopic quantum tunneling of two weakly coupled condensates
authors: Ren¨¦ John Kerkdyk, S. Sinha
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5204
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a Bose Josephson junction(BJJ) made up of two coupled Bose-Einstein condensates. Apart from the usual ac Josephson oscillations, two different dynamical states of BJJ can be observed by tuning the inter-particle interaction strength, which are known as '$\pi$-oscillation' with relative phase $\pi$ between the condensates and 'macroscopic self-trapped' (MST) state with finite number imbalance. By choosing appropiate intial state we study above dynamical branches quantum mechanically and compare with classical dynamics. The stability region of the '$\pi$-oscillation' is separated from that of 'MST' state at a critical coupling strength. Also a significant change in the energy spectrum takes place above the critical coupling strength, and pairs of (quasi)-degenerate excited states appear. The original model of BJJ can be mapped on to a simple Hamiltonian describing quantum particle in an 'effective potential' with an effective Planck constant. Different dynamical states and degenerate excited states in the energy spectrum can be understood in this 'effective potential' approach. Also possible novel quantum phenomena like 'macroscopic quantum tunneling'(MQT) become evident from the simple picture of 'effective potential'. We study decay of metastable '$\pi$-oscillation' by MQT through potential barrier. The doubly degenerate excited states in the energy spectrum are associated with the classically degenerate MST states with equal and opposite number imbalance. We calculate the energy splitting between these quasi-degenerate excited states due to MQT of the condensate between classically degenerate MST states.

id: 1209.5215
title: On the origin of thermality
authors: Bernard S. Kay
comments: 42 pages, 5 figures. Some passages rewritten to improve clarity (also in the abstract). Some typos corrected (including some mathematical typos)
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5215
abstract: It is well-known that a small system weakly coupled to a large energy bath in a total microcanonical ensemble will find itself in an (approximately) thermal state and, recently, it has been shown that, if the total state is, instead, a random pure state with energy in a narrow range, then the small system will still be approximately thermal with a high probability (wrt `Haar measure'). We ask what conditions are required for something resembling these 'traditional' and 'modern' thermality results to still hold when system and energy bath are of comparable size. In Part 1, we show that, for given system and energy-bath densities of states, s_S(e) and s_B(e), thermality does not hold in general, as we illustrate when both increase as powers of energy, but that it does hold in certain approximate senses, in both traditional and modern frameworks, when both grow as exp(be) or as exp(qe^2) and we calculate the system entropy in these cases. In their 'modern' version, our results rely on new quantities, which we introduce and call the S and B 'modapprox' density operators, which, we claim, will, with high probability, give a close approximation to the reduced density operator for the system and energy bath when the total state of system plus energy bath is a random pure state with energy in a narrow range. In Part 2 we clarify the meaning of these modapprox density operators and give arguments for our claim. The prime examples of non-small thermal systems are quantum black holes. Here and in two companion papers, we argue that current string-theoretic derivations of black hole entropy and thermal properties are incomplete and, on the question of information loss, inconclusive. However, we argue that these deficiencies are remedied with a modified scenario which relies on the modern strand of our methods and results here and is based on our previous 'matter-gravity entanglement hypothesis'.

id: 1209.5301
title: Transport blocking and topological phases using ac magnetic fields
authors: ?lvaro G¨®mez-Le¨®n, Gloria Platero
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 85, 245319 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5301
abstract: We analyze electron dynamics and topological properties of open double quantum dots (DQDs) driven by circularly polarized ac-magnetic fields. In particular we focus on the system symmetries which can be tuned by the ac-magnetic field. Remarkably, we show that in the electron spin resonance (ESR) configuration, where the magnetic fields in each dot oscillate with a phase difference of $\pi$, charge localization occurs giving rise to transport blocking at arbitrary intensities of the ac field. The conditions for charge localization are obtained by means of Floquet theory and related with quasienergies degeneracy. We also demonstrate that a topological phase transition can be induced in the adiabatic regime for a phase difference of $\pi$, either by tuning the coupling between dots or by modifying the intensity of the driving magnetic field.

id: 1209.5310
title: From fractional Chern insulators to Abelian and non-Abelian fractional quantum Hall states: adiabatic continuity and orbital entanglement spectrum
authors: Zhao Liu, Emil J. Bergholtz
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 035306 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5310
abstract: The possibility of realizing lattice analogs of fractional quantum Hall (FQH) states, so-called fractional Chern insulators (FCIs), in nearly flat topological (Chern) bands has attracted a lot of recent interest. Here, we make the connection between Abelian as well as non-Abelian FQH states and FCIs more precise. Using a gauge-fixed version of Qi's Wannier basis representation of a Chern band, we demonstrate that the interpolation between several FCI states, obtained by short-range lattice interactions in a spin-orbit-coupled kagome lattice model, and the corresponding continuum FQH states is smooth: the gap remains approximately constant and extrapolates to a finite value in the thermodynamic limit, while the low-lying part of the orbital entanglement spectrum remains qualitatively unaltered. The orbital entanglement spectra also provide a first glimpse of the edge physics of FCIs via the bulk-boundary correspondence. Corroborating these results, we find that the squared overlaps between the FCI and FQH ground states are as large as 98.7% for the 8-electron Laughlin state at $\nu=1/3$ (consistent with an earlier study) and 97.8% for the 10-electron Moore-Read state at $\nu=1/2$. For the bosonic analogs of these states, the adiabatic continuity is also shown to hold, albeit with somewhat smaller associated overlaps, etc. Although going between the Chern bands to the Landau level problem is often smooth, we show that this is not always the case by considering fermions at filling fraction $\nu=4/5$, where the interpolation between Hamiltonians describing the two systems results in a phase transition.

id: 1209.5367
title: When is a Quantum Cellular Automaton (QCA) a Quantum Lattice Gas Automaton (QLGA)?
authors: Asif Shakeel, Peter J. Love
comments: 37 pages, 7 figures, with changes to explanatory text and updated figures, J. Math. Phys. version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54(9), 092203-1 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Representation Theory (math.RT); Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5367
abstract: Quantum cellular automata (QCA) are models of quantum computation of particular interest from the point of view of quantum simulation. Quantum lattice gas automata (QLGA - equivalently partitioned quantum cellular automata) represent an interesting subclass of QCA. QLGA have been more deeply analyzed than QCA, whereas general QCA are likely to capture a wider range of quantum behavior. Discriminating between QLGA and QCA is therefore an important question. In spite of much prior work, classifying which QCA are QLGA has remained an open problem. In the present paper we establish necessary and sufficient conditions for unbounded, finite Quantum Cellular Automata (QCA) (finitely many active cells in a quiescent background) to be Quantum Lattice Gas Automata (QLGA). We define a local condition that classifies those QCA that are QLGA, and we show that there are QCA that are not QLGA. We use a number of tools from functional analysis of separable Hilbert spaces and representation theory of associative algebras that enable us to treat QCA on finite but unbounded configurations in full detail.

id: 1209.5445
title: Probing Quantum Phase Transitions on a Spin Chain with a Double Quantum Dot
authors: Yun-Pil Shim, Sangchul Oh, Jianjia Fei, Xuedong Hu, Mark Friesen
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 155405 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5445
abstract: Quantum phase transitions (QPTs) in qubit systems are known to produce singularities in the entanglement, which could in turn be used to probe the QPT. Current proposals to measure the entanglement are challenging however, because of their nonlocal nature. Here we show that a double quantum dot coupled locally to a spin chain provides an alternative and efficient probe of QPTs. We propose an experiment to observe a QPT in a triple dot, based on the well-known singlet projection technique.

id: 1209.5452
title: Q-boson coherent states and para-Grassmann variables for multi-particle states
authors: Romina A. Ramirez, Gerardo L. Rossini, Daniel C. Cabra, Enrique F. Moreno
comments: Original references added; 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 485304
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5452
abstract: We describe coherent states and associated generalized Grassmann variables for a system of $m$ independent $q$-boson modes. A resolution of unity in terms of generalized Berezin integrals leads to generalized Grassmann symbolic calculus. Formulae for operator traces are given and the thermodynamic partition function for a system of $q$-boson oscillators is discussed.

id: 1209.5460
title: Majorana Edge States for Z2 Topological Orders of the Wen-plaquette Model and the Toric-code Model
authors: Jing Yu, Xing-Hai Zhang, Su-Peng Kou
comments: 9 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5460
abstract: In this paper we study the symmetry protected Majorana edge states for the Z2 topological order of the Wen-plaquette model and the toric-code model and calculate the dispersion of the Majorana edge states. For the system with translational symmetry, the Majorana edge states are gapless and have the nodal points at k=0 and k=pi. For the edge states of the toric-code model without translational symmetry, the edge modes become gapped.

id: 1209.5469
title: Scalable qubit architecture based on holes in quantum dot molecules
authors: Sophia E. Economou, Juan I. Climente, Antonio Badolato, Allan S. Bracker, Daniel Gammon, Matthew F. Doty
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review B 86, 085319 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5469
abstract: Spins confined in quantum dots are a leading candidate for solid-state quantum bits that can be coherently controlled by optical pulses. There are, however, many challenges to developing a scalable multibit information processing device based on spins in quantum dots, including the natural inhomogeneous distribution of quantum dot energy levels, the difficulty of creating all-optical spin manipulation protocols compatible with nondestructive readout, and the substantial electron-nuclear hyperfine interaction-induced decoherence. Here, we present a scalable qubit design and device architecture based on the spin states of single holes confined in a quantum dot molecule. The quantum dot molecule qubit enables a new strategy for optical coherent control with dramatically enhanced wavelength tunability. The use of hole spins allows the suppression of decoherence via hyperfine interactions and enables coherent spin rotations using Raman transitions mediated by a hole-spin-mixed optically excited state. Because the spin mixing is present only in the optically excited state, dephasing and decoherence are strongly suppressed in the ground states that define the qubits and nondestructive readout is possible. We present the qubit and device designs and analyze the wavelength tunability and fidelity of gate operations that can be implemented using this strategy. We then present experimental and theoretical progress toward implementing this design.

id: 1209.5517
title: The Bethe Ansatz and the Tzitz¨¦ica-Bullough-Dodd equation
authors: Patrick Dorey, Simone Faldella, Stefano Negro, Roberto Tateo
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5517
abstract: The theory of classically integrable nonlinear wave equations, and the Bethe Ansatz systems describing massive quantum field theories defined on an infinite cylinder, are related by an important mathematical correspondence that still lacks a satisfactory physical interpretation. In this paper we shall describe this link for the case of the classical and quantum versions of the (Tzitz\'eica-)Bullough-Dodd model.

id: 1209.5585
title: A new method for measuring the absolute neutrino mass
authors: Kenzo Ishikawa, Yutaka Tobita
comments: 36 pages, 12 figures; title changed
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5585
abstract: The probability of the event that a neutrino produced in pion decay is detected in the intermediate $T$ shorter than the life-time $\tau_{\pi}$, $T \leq \tau_{\pi}$, is sensitive to the absolute mass of the neutrino. With a newly formulated S-matrix $S[T]$ that satisfies the boundary conditions of the experiments at a finite $T$, the rate of the event is computed as $\Gamma_0+\tilde{g}(\omega_{\nu}, {T};\tau_{\pi}) \tilde \Gamma_{1} $, where $\tilde{g}(\omega_{\nu},{T};\tau_{\pi})$ depends weakly on $\tau_{\pi}$ and $\omega_{\nu}={m_{\nu}^2c^4}/{(2E_{\nu}\hbar)}$, $c$ is the speed of light. $\Gamma_0$ is the standard one and the correction, $\tilde{g}(\omega_{\nu}, {T};\tau_{\pi}) \tilde \Gamma_{1} $, reflects relativistic invariance and is rigorously computed via the light-cone singularity of the system and reveals the diffraction pattern of a single quantum. The formula explains unsolved anomalies of neutrino experiments and indicates the heavy neutrino mass, $0.098 \pm 0.022$ or $0.083 \pm 0.026$ {eV}/ $c^2$ for normal or inverted mass hierarchies, respectively.

id: 1209.5586
title: Long-range correlations of neutrinos in hadron reactions and neutrino diffraction II: neutrino
authors: Kenzo Ishikawa, Yutaka Tobita
comments: 73 pages, 14 figures. The previous manuscript arXiv:1206.2593v1 was divided to 2 parts, I and this II. Based on I [arXiv:1206.2593], the finite-size correction to a probability to detect a neutrino in pion decay are presented
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5586
abstract: In this II, a probability to detect the neutrino produced in a high-energy pion decay is shown to receive the large finite-size correction. The neutrino interacts extremely weakly with matters and is described with a many-body wave function together with the pion and charged lepton. This wave function slowly approaches to an asymptotic form, which is probed by the neutrino. The whole process is described by an S-matrix of a finite-time interval, which couples with states of non-conserving kinetic energy, and the final states of a broad spectrum specific to a relativistic invariant system contribute to the positive semi-definite correction similar to diffraction of waves through a hole. This diffraction component for the neutrino becomes long range and stable under changes of the pion's energy. Moreover, it has a universal form that depends on the absolute neutrino mass. Thus a new method of measuring the absolute neutrino mass is suggested.

id: 1209.5639
title: A compact and efficient strontium oven for laser-cooling experiments
authors: Marco Schioppo, Nicola Poli, Marco Prevedelli, Stephan Falke, Christian Lisdat, Uwe Sterr, Guglielmo Maria Tino
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, Review of Scientific Instruments, in press
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 83, 103101 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5639
abstract: Here we describe a compact and efficient strontium oven well suited for laser-cooling experiments. Novel design solutions allowed us to produce a collimated strontium atomic beam with a flux of 1.0\times10^13 s^-1 cm^-2 at the oven temperature of 450 {\deg}C, reached with an electrical power consumption of 36 W. The oven is based on a stainless-steel reservoir, filled with 6 g of metallic strontium, electrically heated in a vacuum environment by a tantalum wire threaded through an alumina multi-bore tube. The oven can be hosted in a standard DN40CF cube and has an estimated continuous operation lifetime of 10 years. This oven can be used for other alkali and alkaline earth metals with essentially no modifications.

id: 1209.5641
title: Tan contact and universal high momentum behavior of the fermion propagator in the BCS-BEC crossover
authors: Igor Boettcher, Sebastian Diehl, Jan M. Pawlowski, Christof Wetterich
comments: 19 pages, 11 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023606 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5641
abstract: We derive the universal high momentum factorization of the fermion self-energy in the BCS-BEC crossover of ultracold atoms using nonperturbative quantum field theoretical methods. This property is then employed to compute the Tan contact as a function of interaction strength, temperature, chemical potential and Fermi momentum. We clarify the mechanism of the factorization from an analysis of the self-consistent Schwinger-Dyson equation for the fermion propagator, and compute the perturbative contact on the BCS and BEC sides within this framework. A Functional Renormalization Group approach is then put forward, which allows to determine the contact over the whole crossover and, in particular, for the Unitary Fermi gas. We present numerical results from an implementation of the Renormalization Group equations within a basic truncation scheme.

id: 1209.5648
title: Analysis of light scattering off photonic crystal slabs in terms of Feshbach resonances
authors: I. Evenor, E. Grinvald, F. Lenz, S. Levit
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: The European Physical Journal D, Vol. 66, 2012, p.231
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5648
abstract: Techniques to deal with Feshbach resonances are applied to describe resonant light scattering off one dimensional photonic crystal slabs. Accurate expressions for scattering amplitudes, free of any fitting parameter, are obtained for isolated as well as overlapping resonances. They relate the resonance properties to the properties of the optical structure and of the incident light. For the most common case of a piecewise constant dielectric function, the calculations can be carried out essentially analytically. After establishing the accuracy of this approach we demonstrate its potential in the analysis of the reflection coefficients for the diverse shapes of overlapping, interacting resonances.

id: 1209.5774
title: Detecting Single Infrared Photons with 93% System Efficiency
authors: F. Marsili, V. B. Verma, J. A. Stern, S. Harrington, A. E. Lita, T. Gerrits, I. Vayshenker, B. Baek, M. D. Shaw, R. P. Mirin, S. W. Nam
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5774
abstract: Single-photon detectors (SPDs) at near infrared wavelengths with high system detection efficiency (> 90%), low dark count rate (< 1 counts per second, cps), low timing jitter (< 100 ps), and short reset time (< 100 ns) would enable landmark experiments in a variety of fields. Although some of the existing approaches to single-photon detection fulfill one or two of the above specifications, to date no detector has met all of the specifications simultaneously. Here we report on a fiber-coupled single-photon-detection system employing superconducting nanowire single photon detectors (SNSPDs) that closely approaches the ideal performance of SPDs. Our detector system has a system detection efficiency (SDE), including optical coupling losses, greater than 90% in the wavelength range \lambda = 1520-1610 nm; device dark count rate (measured with the device shielded from room-temperature blackbody radiation) of ~ 0.01 cps; timing jitter of ~ 150 ps FWHM; and reset time of 40 ns.

id: 1209.5827
title: Phase transition of the dissipative double-well quantum mechanics
authors: Ken-Ichi Aoki, Tamao Kobayashi
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures; Publication will be soon in Modern Physics Letters B (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5827
abstract: We investigate the critical dissipation of the double-well quantum mechanics. We adopt two-state approximation to define effective Ising models and apply the block decimation renormalization group and the finite range scaling method recently proposed for the long range Ising model. We briefly report the numerical results of the critical dissipation for various model parameters.

id: 1209.5830
title: Symmetry Protected Josephson Supercurrents in Three-Dimensional Topological Insulators
authors: Sungjae Cho, Brian Dellabetta, Alina Yang, John Schneeloch, Zhijun Xu, Tonica Valla, Genda Gu, Matthew J. Gilbert, Nadya Mason
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5830
abstract: Coupling the surface state of a topological insulator (TI) to an s-wave superconductor is predicted to produce the long-sought Majorana quasiparticle excitations. However, superconductivity has not been measured in surface states when the bulk charge carriers are fully depleted, i.e., in the true topological regime that is relevant for investigating Majorana modes. Here, we report measurements of DC Josephson effects in TI-superconductor junctions as the chemical potential is moved from the bulk bands into the band gap, or through the true topological regime characterized by the presence of only surface currents. We examine the relative behavior of the system at different bulk/surface ratios, determining the effects of strong bulk/surface mixing, disorder, and magnetic field. We compare our results to 3D quantum transport simulations to conclude that the supercurrent is largely carried by surface states, due to the inherent topology of the bands, and that it is robust against disorder.

id: 1209.5854
title: Casimir energy for a spherical boundary within the surface impedance approach: Obtaining negative values
authors: Luigi Rosa
comments: misprints corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. D 86, 105023 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5854
abstract: We compute the Casimir Energy of a spherical region using a Surface Impedance approach. We characterize the Surface Impedance of the boundary using plasma model. Exact analytical formulae are obtained by means of the zeta function regularization method and all the divergencies are explicitly computed. We find that it is possible to have negative Casimir energy for some range of values of the relevant parameter. Limits of applicability of the model are discussed.

id: 1209.5975
title: Low temperature acoustic polaron localization
authors: Riccardo Fantoni
comments: 8 pages, 1 table, and 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 144304 (2012)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5975
abstract: We calculate the low temperature properties of an acoustic polaron in three dimensions in thermal equilibrium at a given temperature using a specialized path integral Monte Carlo method. In particular we find numerical evidence that the chosen Hamiltonian for the acoustic polaron describes a phase transition from a localized state to an unlocalized state for the electron as the phonons-electron coupling constant decreases. The phase transition manifests itself with a jump discontinuity in the potential energy as a function of the coupling constant. In the weak coupling regime the electron is in an extended state whereas in the strong coupling regime it is found in a self-trapped state.

id: 1209.6094
title: Efficient determination of the energy landscape of nonlinear Schr?dinger-type equations
authors: Nico Schl?mer, Daniele Avitabile, Milorad V. Milo?evi?, Bart Partoens, Wim Vanroose
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6094
abstract: We describe a systematic approach for the efficient numerical solution of nonlinear Schr\"odinger-type partial differential equations of the form $(K +V + g|\psi|^2)\psi=0$, with an energy operator $K$, a scalar potential $V$, and a scalar parameter $g$. Instrumental to the approach are developments in numerical linear and nonlinear algebra, specifically numerical parameter continuation. We demonstrate how a continuous sequence of solutions can be obtained regardless of their stability, so that finally the spectrum of stable and unstable solutions in the specified parameter range is fully revealed. The method is demonstrated for the GL equation in a three-dimensional superconducting domain with an inhomogeneous magnetic field, a numerically demanding problem known to have an involved solution landscape.

id: 1209.6124
title: Langmuir waves dispersion in semi-relativistic spinless quantum plasmas
authors: A. Yu. Ivanov, P. A. Andreev, L. S. Kuzmenkov
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6124
abstract: Many particle quantum hydrodynamics based on the Darwin Hamiltonian (the Hamiltonian corresponding to the Darwin Lagrangian) is considered. A force field appearing in corresponding Euler equation is considered in details. Contributions from different terms of the Darwin Hamiltonian in the Euler equation are traced. For example, the relativistic correction to the kinetic energy of particles leads to several terms in the Euler equation, these terms have different form. One of them has a form similar to a term appearing from the Darwin term. Hence, the two different mechanisms give analogous contributions in wave dispersion. Microscopic analog of the Biot-Savart law, called the current-current interaction and describing an interaction of moving charges via the magnetic field, is also included in our description. The semi-relativistic generalization of the quantum Bohm potential is obtained. Contribution of the relativistic effects in the spectrum of plasma collective excitations is considered.

id: 1209.6154
title: Resonance linewidth and inhomogeneous broadening in a metamaterial array
authors: Stewart D. Jenkins, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 205128 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6154
abstract: We examine the effect of inhomogeneous broadening on the collective response of a planar metamaterial consisting of asymmetric split ring resonators. We show that such a response leads to a transmission resonance that can persist when the broadening of individual meta-atom resonance frequencies is roughly one half the frequency characterizing the split ring asymmetry. We also find that larger degrees of inhomogeneous broadening can drastically alter the cooperative response, destroying this resonance. The reduced effect of cooperative response due to inhomogeneous broadening may find applications in producing metamaterial samples that more closely mimic homogeneous magneto-dielectric medium with well-defined susceptibility and permittivity.

id: 1209.6237
title: Generating Very-High-Precision Frobenius Series with Apriori Estimates of Coefficients
authors: Amna Noreen, K?re Olaussen
comments: Submitted to special issue of Engineering Letters after WCE London 2012 conference
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6237
abstract: The Frobenius method can be used to compute solutions of ordinary linear differential equations by generalized power series. Each series converges in a circle which at least extends to the nearest singular point; hence exponentially fast inside the circle. This makes this method well suited for very-high-precision solutions of such equations. It is useful for this purpose to have prior knowledge of the behaviour of the series. We show that the magnitude of its coefficients can be apriori predicted to surprisingly high accuracy, employing a Legendre transformation of the WKB approximated solutions of the equation.

id: 1209.6242
title: Quantum loop expansion to high orders, extended Borel summation, and comparison with exact results
authors: Amna Noreen, K?re Olaussen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6242
abstract: We compare predictions of the quantum loop expansion to (essentially) infinite orders with (essentially) exact results in a simple quantum mechanical model.We find that there are exponentially small corrections to the loop expansion, which cannot be explained by any obvious "instanton" type corrections. It is not the mathematical occurence of exponential corrections, but their seemingly lack of any physical origin, which we find surprising and puzzling.

id: 1209.6246
title: Phase-Controlled Atom-Photon Entanglement in a Three-Level lambda-Type Closed-Loop Atomic System
authors: Ali Mortezapour, Zeinab Kordi, Mohammad Mahmoudi
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6246
abstract: The atom-photon entanglement is studied in a three-level lambda-type closed-loop atomic system in multi-photon resonance condition and beyond it. It is shown that the von Neumann entropy in such a system is phase dependent, and it can be controlled by either intensity or relative phase of applied fields. It is demonstrated that for the special case of Rabi frequency of applied fields, the system is disentangled.

id: 1209.6259
title: Phenomenology from relativistic Levy-Schroedinger equations: Application to neutrinos
authors: Nicola Cufaro Petroni, Modesto Pusterla
comments: 6 pages. Extensively evised I and II section. A few errors corrected. Appendix eliminated. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1111.2956
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6259
abstract: In continuation of a previous paper a close connection between Feynman propagators and a particular L\'evy stochastic process is established. The approach can be easily applied to the Standard Model SU_C(3)xSU_L(2)xU(1) providing qualitative interesting results. Quantitative results, compatible with experimental data, are obtained in the case of neutrinos.

id: 1209.6343
title: Evaporative cooling of the dipolar radical OH
authors: Benjamin K. Stuhl, Matthew T. Hummon, Mark Yeo, Goulven Qu¨¦m¨¦ner, John L. Bohn, Jun Ye
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6343
abstract: Atomic physics was revolutionized by the development of forced evaporative cooling: it led directly to the observation of Bose-Einstein condensation, quantum-degenerate Fermi gases, and ultracold optical lattice simulations of condensed matter phenomena. More recently, great progress has been made in the production of cold molecular gases, whose permanent electric dipole moment is expected to generate rich, novel, and controllable phases, dynamics, and chemistry in these ultracold systems. However, while many strides have been made in both direct cooling and cold-association techniques, evaporative cooling has not yet been achieved due to unfavorable elastic-to-inelastic ratios and impractically slow thermalization rates in the available trapped species. We now report the observation of microwave-forced evaporative cooling of hydroxyl (OH) molecules loaded from a Stark-decelerated beam into an extremely high-gradient magnetic quadrupole trap. We demonstrate cooling by at least an order of magnitude in temperature and three orders in phase-space density, limited only by the low-temperature sensitivity of our spectroscopic thermometry technique. With evaporative cooling and sufficiently large initial populations, much colder temperatures are possible, and even a quantum-degenerate gas of this dipolar radical -- or anything else it can sympathetically cool -- may now be in reach.

id: 1209.6402
title: Landau-Zener tunneling in 2D periodic structures in the presence of a gauge field I: Tunneling rates
authors: Andrey R. Kolovsky
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. {\bf 46} (2013), 145301 (6 pages)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6402
abstract: We study the interband Landau-Zener tunneling of a quantum particle in the Hall configuration, i.e., in the presence of normal to the lattice plane gauge field (for example, magnetic field for a charged particle) and in-plane potential field (electric field for a charged particle). The interband tunneling is induced by the potential field and for vanishing gauge field is described by the common Landau-Zener theory. We generalize this theory for non-zero gauge field. The depletion rates of low-energy bands are calculated by using semi-analytical method of the truncated Floquet matrix.

id: 1209.6435
title: Subbarrier fusion reactions and many-particle quantum tunneling
authors: K. Hagino, N. Takigawa
comments: 45 pages, 16 eps figures. An invited paper to be published in Prog. Theo. Phys
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 128 (2012), 1061-1106
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6435
abstract: Low energy heavy-ion fusion reactions are governed by quantum tunneling through the Coulomb barrier formed by a strong cancellation of the repulsive Coulomb force with the attractive nuclear interaction between the colliding nuclei. Extensive experimental as well as theoretical studies have revealed that fusion reactions are strongly influenced by couplings of the relative motion of the colliding nuclei to several nuclear intrinsic motions. Heavy-ion subbarrier fusion reactions thus provide a good opportunity to address a general problem on quantum tunneling in the presence of couplings, which has been a popular subject in the past decades in many branches of physics and chemistry. Here we review theoretical aspects of heavy-ion subbarrier fusion reactions from the view point of quantum tunneling in systems with many degrees of freedom. Particular emphases are put on the coupled-channels approach to fusion reactions, and the barrier distribution representation for multi-channel penetrability. We also discuss an application of the barrier distribution method to elucidation of the mechanism of dissociative adsorption of H$_2$ melecules in surface science.

id: 1209.6441
title: Feshbach resonance: a one dimensional example
authors: Josep Taron
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6441
abstract: We present a simple one-dimensional example of a spin 1/2 particle submitted to a delta-type potential which interacs differently with the two components of the wavefunction and to an external magnetic field. It has two coupled channels, admits a closed solution and features the Feshbach resonance phenomenon by proper tunning of the magnetic field.

id: 1209.6468
title: Quantum dynamics of a single, mobile spin impurity
authors: Takeshi Fukuhara, Adrian Kantian, Manuel Endres, Marc Cheneau, Peter Schau?, Sebastian Hild, David Bellem, Ulrich Schollw?ck, Thierry Giamarchi, Christian Gross, Immanuel Bloch, Stefan Kuhr
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nature Physics 9, 235 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6468
abstract: Quantum magnetism describes the properties of many materials such as transition metal oxides and cuprate superconductors. One of its elementary processes is the propagation of spin excitations. Here we study the quantum dynamics of a deterministically created spin-impurity atom, as it propagates in a one-dimensional lattice system. We probe the full spatial probability distribution of the impurity at different times using single-site-resolved imaging of bosonic atoms in an optical lattice. In the Mott-insulating regime, a post-selection of the data allows to reduce the effect of temperature, giving access to a space- and time-resolved measurement of the quantum-coherent propagation of a magnetic excitation in the Heisenberg model. Extending the study to the bath's superfluid regime, we determine quantitatively how the bath strongly affects the motion of the impurity. The experimental data shows a remarkable agreement with theoretical predictions allowing us to determine the effect of temperature on the coherence and velocity of impurity motion. Our results pave the way for a new approach to study quantum magnetism, mobile impurities in quantum fluids, and polarons in lattice systems.

id: 1209.6550
title: Electrical read out for coherent phenomena involving Rydberg atoms in thermal vapor cells
authors: D. Barredo, H. K¨¹bler, R. Daschner, R. L?w, T. Pfau
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6550
abstract: We present a very sensitive and scalable method to measure the population of highly excited Rydberg states in a thermal vapor cell of rubidium atoms. We detect the Rydberg ionization current in a 5 mm electrically contacted cell. The measured current is found to be in excellent agreement with a theory for the Rydberg population based on a master equation for the three level problem including an ionization channel and the full Doppler distributions at the corresponding temperatures. The signal-to-noise ratio of the current detection is substantially better than purely optical techniques.

id: 1209.6597
title: Calculation of divergent photon absorption in ultrathin films of a topological insulator
authors: Jing Wang, Hideo Mabuchi, Xiao-Liang Qi
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 195127 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6597
abstract: We perform linear and non-linear photon absorption calculations in topological insulator ultra-thin films on a substrate. Due to the unique band structure of the coupled topological surface states, novel features are observed for suitable photon frequencies, including a divergent edge singularity in one-photon absorption process and a significantly enhancement in two-photon absorption process. The resonanct frequencies can be controlled by tuning the energy difference and coupling of the top and bottom surface states. Such unique linear and nonlinear optical properties make ultra-thin films of topological insulators promising material building blocks for tunable high-efficiency nanophotonic devices.

id: 1209.6611
title: Development of simple quantitative test for lack of field emission orthodoxy
authors: Richard G. Forbes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.6611
abstract: This paper describes a simple quantitative test applicable to current-voltage data for cold field electron emission (CFE). It can decide whether individual reported field-enhancement-factor (FEF) values are spuriously large. The paper defines an "orthodox emission situation" by a set of ideal experimental, physical and mathematical conditions, and shows how (in these conditions) operating values of scaled barrier field (f) can be extracted from Fowler-Nordheim (FN) and Millikan-Lauritsen (ML) plots. By analyzing historical CFE experiments, which are expected to nearly satisfy the orthodoxy conditions, "apparently reasonable" and "clearly unreasonable" experimental ranges for f are found. These provide a test for lack of orthodoxy. For illustration, this test is applied to 17 post-1975 CFE data sets, mainly for carbon and semiconductor nanostructures. Some extracted f-value ranges are apparently reasonable (including many carbon results), some are clearly unreasonable. It is shown that this test applies to any field-emission diode geometry and any form of FN or ML plot. It is proved mathematically that, if the extracted f-value range is "unreasonably high", then FEF-values extracted by the usual literature method are spuriously large. Probably, all new field-emitter materials should be tested in this way. Appropriate data-analysis theory needs developing for non-orthodox emitters.

id: 1209.3823
title: A dynamical relation between dual finite temperature classical and zero temperature quantum systems: quantum critical jamming and quantum dynamical heterogeneities
authors: Zohar Nussinov, Patrick Johnson, Matthias J. Graf, Alexander V. Balatsky
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review B 87, 184202 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3823
abstract: Many electronic systems exhibit striking features in their dynamical response over a prominent range of experimental parameters. While there are empirical suggestions of particular increasing length scales that accompany such transitions, this identification is not universal. To better understand such behavior in quantum systems, we extend a known mapping (earlier studied in stochastic, or supersymmetric, quantum mechanics) between finite temperature classical Fokker-Planck systems and related quantum systems at zero temperature to include general non-equilibrium dynamics. Unlike Feynman mappings or stochastic quantization methods (or holographic type dualities), the classical systems that we consider and their quantum duals reside in the same number of space-time dimensions. The upshot of our exact result is that a Wick rotation relates (i) dynamics in general finite temperature classical dissipative systems to (ii) zero temperature dynamics in the corresponding dual many-body quantum systems. Using this correspondence, we illustrate that, even in the absence of imposed disorder, many continuum quantum fluid systems (and possible lattice counterparts) may exhibit a zero-point "quantum dynamical heterogeneity" wherein the dynamics, at a given instant, is spatially non-uniform. While the static length scales accompanying this phenomenon do not exhibit a clear divergence in standard correlation functions, the length scale of the dynamical heterogeneities can increase dramatically. We study "quantum jamming" and illustrate how a hard core bosonic system may undergo a zero temperature quantum critical metal-to-insulator-type transition with an extremely large effective dynamical exponent z>4 consistent with length scales that increase far more slowly than the relaxation time as a putative critical transition is approached. We suggest ways to analyze experimental data.

id: 1209.5440
title: Symmetries in the \bm{g_{9/2}} shell
authors: Larry Zamick, Alberto escuderos
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. C 86, 047306 (2012)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5440
abstract: We consider symmetries which arise when two-body interaction matrix elements with isopin T=0 are set equal to a constant in a single-j -shell calculation. The nucleus ^{96} Cd is used as an example.

