id: 1210.0005
title: Relativistic Effects in Atom and Neutron Interferometry and the Differences Between Them
authors: Daniel M. Greenberger, Wolfgang P. Schleich, Ernst M. Rasel
comments: 42 pages, 11 figures, companion paper to "A Representation-free Description of the Kasevich-Chu Interferometer: A Resolution of the Redshift Controversy", New Journal of Physics (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0005
abstract: In recent years there has been an enormous progress in matter wave interferometry. The Colella- Overhauser-Werner (COW) type of neutron interferometer and the Kasevich-Chu (K-C) atom interferometer, are the prototype of such devices and the issue of whether they are sensitive to relativistic effects has recently aroused much controversy. We examine the question of to what extent the gravitational red shift, and the related twin paradox effect can be seen in both of these atom and neutron interferometers. We point out an asymmetry between the two types of devices. Because of this, the non-vanishing, non-relativistic residue of both effects can be seen in the neutron interferometer, while in the K-C interferometer the effects cancel out, leaving no residue, although they could be present in other types of atom interferometers. Also, the necessary shifting of the laser frequency (chirping) in the atom interferometer effectively changes the laboratory into a free-fall system, which could be exploited for other experiments.

id: 1210.0028
title: Virtues and limitations of the truncated Holstein-Primakoff description of quantum rotors
authors: Jorge G. Hirsch, Octavio Castanos, Ramon Lopez-Pena, Eduardo Nahmad-Achar
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, match published version. Use of the discontinuity in the critical exponents of the fidelity susceptibility to obtain analytically the class of universality associated with the Lipkin model. The mention to spurious divergences has been replaced with "have no counterpart in the exact diagonalization"
journal: Phys. Scr. 87 (2013) 038106
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0028
abstract: A Hamiltonian describing the collective behaviour of N interacting spins can be mapped to a bosonic one employing the Holstein-Primakoff realisation, at the expense of having an infinite series in powers of the boson creation and annihilation operators. Truncating this series up to quadratic terms allows for the obtention of analytic solutions through a Bogoliubov transformation, which becomes exact in the limit N -> infinit. The Hamiltonian exhibits a phase transition from single spin excitations to a collective mode. In a vicinity of this phase transition the truncated solutions predict the existence of singularities for finite number of spins, which have no counterpart in the exact diagonalization. Renormalisation allows to extract from these divergences the exact behaviour of relevant observables with the number of spins around the phase transition, and relate it with the class of universality to which the model belongs. In the present work a detailed analysis of these aspects is presented for the Lipkin model.

id: 1210.0044
title: Influence of monolayer contamination on electric-field-noise heating in ion traps
authors: A. Safavi-Naini, E. Kim, P. F. Weck, P. Rabl, H. R. Sadeghpour
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0044
abstract: Electric field noise is a hinderance to the assembly of large scale quantum computers based on entangled trapped ions. Apart from ubiquitous technical noise sources, experimental studies of trapped ion heating have revealed additional limiting contributions to this noise, originating from atomic processes on the electrode surfaces. In a recent work [A. Safavi-Naini et al., Phys. Rev. A 84, 023412 (2011)] we described a microscopic model for this excess electric field noise, which points a way towards a more systematic understanding of surface adsorbates as progenitors of electric field jitter noise. Here, we address the impact of surface monolayer contamination on adsorbate induced noise processes. By using exact numerical calculations for H and N atomic monolayers on an Au(111) surface representing opposite extremes of physisorption and chemisorption, we show that an additional monolayer can significantly affect the noise power spectrum and either enhance or suppress the resulting heating rates.

id: 1210.0051
title: Quantum Memories via Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in Three-Level Systems
authors: F. Revson Fernandes Pereira, Danieverton Moretti, Ello¨¢ B. Guedes
comments: Published in the IV Workshop-School in Quantum Computation and Information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0051
abstract: This work aims at analyzing the adequacy of Laguerre-Gauss (LG) beams and three-level quantum systems to build quantum memories. We focus on such systems in which there is a phenomenon called Eletromagnetic Induced Transparency (EIT) which enables the information storage in atomic cells. We show both theoretical and practical results regarding LG beams and the conditions according to which EIT raises. The existence of such conditions is necessary to the implementation of quantum memories in this scenario.

id: 1210.0070
title: Engineering of nonclassical motional states in optomechanical systems
authors: Xun-Wei Xu, Hui Wang, Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063819 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0070
abstract: We propose to synthesize arbitrary nonclassical motional states in optomechanical systems by using sideband excitations and photon blockade. We first demonstrate that the Hamiltonian of the optomechanical systems can be reduced, in the strong single-photon optomechanical coupling regime when the photon blockade occurs, to one describing the interaction between a driven two-level trapped ion and the vibrating modes, and then show a method to generate target states by using a series of classical pulses with desired frequencies, phases, and durations. We further analyze the effect of the photon leakage, due to small anharmonicity, on the fidelity of the expected motional state, and study environment induced decoherence. Moreover, we also discuss the experimental feasibility and provide operational parameters using the possible experimental data.

id: 1210.0107
title: Improve the Maximum Transmission Distance of Four-State Continuous Variable Quantum Key Distribution by using a Noiseless Linear Amplifier
authors: Bingjie Xu, Chunming Tang, Hui Chen, Wenzheng Zhang, Fuchen Zhu
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0107
abstract: A modified four-state CVQKD protocol is proposed to increase the maximum transmission distance and tolerable excess noise in the presence of Gaussian lossy and noisy channel by using a noiseless linear amplifier (NLA). A NLA with amplitude gain g can increase the maximum admission losses by 20log(g) dB.

id: 1210.0111
title: Qubit-qudit states with positive partial transpose
authors: Lin Chen, Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: 13 pages, 2 tables
journal: Physical Review A 86, 062332 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0111
abstract: We show that the length of a qubit-qutrit separable state is equal to the max(r,s), where r is the rank of the state and s is the rank of its partial transpose. We refer to the ordered pair (r,s) as the birank of this state. We also construct examples of qubit-qutrit separable states of any feasible birank (r,s). We determine the closure of the set of normalized two-qutrit entangled states of rank four having positive partial transpose (PPT). The boundary of this set consists of all separable states of length at most four. We prove that the length of any qubit-qudit separable state of birank (d+1,d+1) is d+1. We also show that all qubit-qudit PPT entangled states of birank (d+1,d+1) can be built in a simple way from edge states. If V is a subspace of dimension k<d in the tensor product of C^2 and C^d such that V contains no product vectors, we show that the set of all product vectors in the orthogonal complement of V is a vector bundle of rank d-k over the projective line. Finally, we explicitly construct examples of qubit-qudit PPT states (both separable and entangled) of any feasible birank.

id: 1210.0113
title: Simulating the Transverse Ising Model on a Quantum Computer: Error Correction with the Surface Code
authors: Hao You, Michael R. Geller, P. C. Stancil
comments: 11 pages,14 figures and 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032341 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0113
abstract: We estimate the resource requirements for the quantum simulation of the ground state energy of the one dimensional quantum transverse Ising model (TIM), based on the surface code implementation of a fault tolerant quantum computer. The surface code approach has one of the highest known tolerable error rates (1%) which makes it currently one of the most practical quantum computing schemes. Compared to results of the same model using the concatenated Steane code, the current results indicate that the simulation time is comparable but the number of physical qubits for the surface code is 2-3 orders of magnitude larger than that of the concatenation code. Considering that the error threshold requirements of the surface code is four orders of magnitude higher than the concatenation code, building a quantum computer with a surface code implementation appears more promising given current physical hardware capabilities.

id: 1210.0142
title: Emergence and Frustration of Magnetic Order with Variable-Range Interactions in a Trapped Ion Quantum Simulator
authors: R. Islam, C. Senko, W. C. Campbell, S. Korenblit, J. Smith, A. Lee, E. E. Edwards, C.-C. J. Wang, J. K. Freericks, C. Monroe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0142
abstract: Frustration, or the competition between interacting components of a network, is often responsible for the complexity of many body systems, from social and neural networks to protein folding and magnetism. In quantum magnetic systems, frustration arises naturally from competing spin-spin interactions given by the geometry of the spin lattice or by the presence of long-range antiferromagnetic couplings. Frustrated magnetism is a hallmark of poorly understood systems such as quantum spin liquids, spin glasses and spin ices, whose ground states are massively degenerate and can carry high degrees of quantum entanglement. The controlled study of frustrated magnetism in materials is hampered by short dynamical time scales and the presence of impurities, while numerical modeling is generally intractable when dealing with dynamics beyond N~30 particles. Alternatively, a quantum simulator can be exploited to directly engineer prescribed frustrated interactions between controlled quantum systems, and several small-scale experiments have moved in this direction. In this article, we perform a quantum simulation of a long-range antiferromagnetic quantum Ising model with a transverse field, on a crystal of up to N = 16 trapped Yb+ atoms. We directly control the amount of frustration by continuously tuning the range of interaction and directly measure spin correlation functions and their dynamics through spatially-resolved spin detection. We find a pronounced dependence of the magnetic order on the amount of frustration, and extract signatures of quantum coherence in the resulting phases.

id: 1210.0173
title: Landau-Zener transition stabilized by the enhanced quantum Zeno effect in the bosonic system
authors: Kai Wen, Tim Byrnes, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0173
abstract: We study the Landau-Zener transition with the quantum Zeno effect in an open dissipative system populated by a large number of bosons. Given the quantum Zeno effect is strong enough, both discrete and continuous quantum Zeno measurements are found to stabilize the Landau-Zener transition. Both the $\sigma^x$-type longitudinal relaxation and $\sigma^z$-type transverse relaxation in the bosonic system are analyzed as a model of continuous quantum Zeno measurements. While both of them improve the signal-to-noise ratio in terms of the ground state population, the $\sigma^x$-type relaxation can further boost measurement sensitivity and thus lead to a polynomial speedup with the number of bosons in the system. For a system that contains a large number of bosons such as in a Bose-Einstein condensate with more than $10^4$ bosons, this equates to several orders of magnitude speedup.

id: 1210.0177
title: Entanglement in parametric down-conversion with phase mismatch at finite temperature
authors: Ana M. Martins
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0177
abstract: In this work the degree of entanglement of two-photon states generated by parametric-down conversion with a phase mismatch is computed in terms of the temperature of the nonlinear medium where the interaction takes place. The minimum interaction time, named {\it birth time of entanglement}, needed before entanglement is attained, is computed in terms of the temperature and of the phase mismatch. Our results show that, for each value of the phase mismatch, there is a critical temperature above which entanglement disappears. We are able to identify the regions of parameters, temperature and mismatch, where the states are entangled and where they are separable. We also propose a entanglement witness based in a dynamical invariant of the nonlinear interaction.

id: 1210.0182
title: Quantum-memory-assisted entropic uncertainty relation with a single nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond
authors: Z. Y. Xu, S. Q. Zhu, W. L. Yang
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 101, 244105 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0182
abstract: The limitation of simultaneous measurements of noncommuting observables can be eliminated when the measured particle is maximally entangled with a quantum memory. We present a proposal for testing this quantum-memory-assisted entropic uncertainty relation in a single nitrogen-vacancy (N-V) center in diamond only by local electronic measurements. As an application, this entropic uncertainty relation is used to witness entanglement between the electron and nuclear spins of the N-V center, which is close to the reach of currently available technology.

id: 1210.0194
title: If no information gain implies no disturbance, then any discrete physical theory is classical
authors: Corsin Pfister, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 11+19 pages, 8+11 figures. Minor fix to the formulation of Lemma 2(b). No results changed
journal: Nature Communications 4, 1851, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0194
abstract: It has been suggested that nature could be discrete in the sense that the underlying state space of a physical system has only a finite number of pure states. For example, the Bloch ball of a single qubit could be discretized into small patches and only appear round to us due to experimental limitations. Here, we present a strong physical argument for the quantum theoretical property that every state space (even the smallest possible one, the qubit) has infinitely many pure states. We propose a simple physical postulate which dictates that in fact the only possible discrete theory is classical mechanics. More specifically, we postulate that no information gain implies no disturbance, or read in the contrapositive, that disturbance leads to some form of information gain. In a theory like quantum mechanics where we already know that the converse holds, i.e. information gain does imply disturbance, this can be understood as postulating an equivalence between disturbance and information gain. What is more, we show that non-classical discrete theories are still ruled out even if we relax the postulate to hold only approximately in the sense that no information gain only causes a small amount of disturbance. Finally, our postulate also rules out popular generalizations such as the PR-box that allows non-local correlations beyond the limits of quantum theory.

id: 1210.0199
title: Experimental protection and revival of quantum correlation in open solid systems
authors: Xing Rong, Fangzhou Jin, Zixiang Wang, Jianpei Geng, Chenyong Ju, Ya Wang, Runmin Zhang, Changkui Duan, Minjun Shi, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, with supplementary materials
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0199
abstract: Quantum correlation quantified by quantum discord has been demonstrated experimentally as important physical resources in quantum computation and communication for some cases even without the presence of entanglement. However, since the interaction between the quantum system and the noisy environment is inevitable, it is essential to protect quantum correlation from lost in the environment and to characterize its dynamical behavior in the real open systems. Here we showed experimentally in the solid-state P:Si system the existence of a stable interval for the quantum correlation in the beginning until a critical time $t_c \approx 166$ ns of the transition from classical to quantum decoherence. To protect the quantum correlation, we achieved the extension of the critical time by 50 times to $8 \mu$s by applying a two-flip dynamical decoupling (DD) pulse sequence. Moreover, we observed the phenomenon of the revival of quantum correlation, as well as classical correlation. The experimental observation of a non-decay interval for quantum correlation and the great extension of it in an important solid-state system with genuine noise makes the use quantum discord as physical resources in quantum information processing more practicable.

id: 1210.0209
title: Optimal pair generation rate for Entanglement-based QKD
authors: Catherine Holloway, John A. Doucette, Christopher Erven, Jean-Philippe Bourgoin, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0209
abstract: In entanglement-based quantum key distribution (QKD), the generation and detection of multi-photon modes leads to a trade-off between entanglement visibility and two-fold coincidence events when maximizing the secure key rate (SKR). We produce a predictive model for the optimal two-fold coincidence probability per coincidence window given the channel efficiency and detector dark count rate of a given system. This model is experimentally validated and used in simulations for QKD with satellites as well as optical fibers.

id: 1210.0239
title: Cooling by heating in the quantum optics domain
authors: D. Z. Rossatto, A. R. de Almeida, T. Werlang, C. J. Villas-Boas, N. G. de Almeida
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 035802 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0239
abstract: A class of Hamiltonians that are experimentally feasible in several contexts within quantum optics and lead to so-called cooling by heating for fermionic as well as for bosonic systems has been analyzed numerically. We have found a large range of parameters for which cooling by heating can be observed either for the fermionic system alone or for the combined fermionic and bosonic systems. Analyzing the experimental requirements, we conclude that cooling by heating is achievable with present-day technology, especially in the context of trapped-ion and cavity QED, thus contributing to the understanding of this interesting and counterintuitive effect.

id: 1210.0289
title: Analysis of the time-energy entanglement of down-converted photon pairs by correlated single photon interference
authors: Changliang Ren, Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043823 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0289
abstract: The time-energy entanglement of down-converted photon pairs is particularly difficult to characterize because direct measurements of photon arrival times are limited by the temporal resolution of photon detection. Here, we explore an alternative possibility of characterizing the temporal coherence of two-photon wavefunctions using single photon interference with weak coherent light. Specifically, this method makes use of the fact that down-conversion generates a coherent superposition of vacuum and two-photon states, so that the coincidence count rates for photon pairs after interference with weak coherent light are given by a superposition of the two-photon wavefunction from the down-conversion with the product wavefunction defined by the weak coherent references. By observing the frequency dependent interference pattern, it is possible to reconstruct the amplitudes and the phases of the two-photon wavefunction within the bandwidth of the reference pulses used in the single photon interferences. The correlated single photon interferences therefore provide a direct map of the entangled two-photon wavefunction generated in the down-conversion process.

id: 1210.0294
title: Very strong coupling in GaAs based optical microcavities
authors: H. Zhang, N. Y. Kim, Y. Yamamoto, N. Na
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0294
abstract: We show that when following a simple cavity design metric, a quantum well exciton-microcavity photon coupling constant can be larger than the exciton binding energy in GaAs based optical microcavities. Such a very strong coupling significantly reduces the relative electron-hole motion and makes the polaritons robust against phonon collisions. The corresponding polariton dissociation and saturation boundaries on the phase diagram are much improved, and our calculations suggest the possibility of constructing a room temperature, high power exciton-polariton laser without resorting to wide bandgap semiconductors.

id: 1210.0298
title: Proceedings 8th International Workshop on Quantum Physics and Logic
authors: Bart Jacobs, Peter Selinger, Bas Spitters
comments: EPTCS 95, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0298
abstract: This volume contains the proceedings of the 8th International Workshop on Quantum Physics and Logic (QPL 2011), which was held October 27-29, 2011 at Radboud University Nijmegen. The goal of this workshop series is to bring together researchers working on mathematical foundations of quantum physics, quantum computing and spatio-temporal causal structures, and in particular those that use logical tools, ordered algebraic and category-theoretic structures, formal languages, semantic methods and other computer science methods for the study of physical behavior in general. Over the past few years, there has been growing activity in these foundational approaches, together with a renewed interest in the foundations of quantum theory, which complement the more mainstream research in quantum computation.

id: 1210.0309
title: Suppression of quantum-radiation-pressure noise in an optical spring
authors: W. Zach Korth, Haixing Miao, Thomas Corbitt, Garrett D. Cole, Yanbei Chen, Rana X. Adhikari
comments: 11 pages (with appendix), 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033805 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0309
abstract: Recent advances in micro- and nanofabrication techniques have led to corresponding improvement in the performance of optomechanical systems, which provide a promising avenue towards quantum-limited metrology and the study of quantum behavior in macroscopic mechanical objects. One major impediment to reaching the quantum regime is thermal excitation, which can be overcome for sufficiently high mechanical quality factor Q. Here, we propose a method for increasing the effective Q of a mechanical resonator by stiffening it via the optical spring effect exhibited by linear optomechanical systems, and show how the associated quantum radiation pressure noise can be evaded by sensing and feedback control. In a parameter regime that is attainable with current technology, this method allows for realistic quantum cavity optomechanics in a frequency band well below that which has been realized thus far.

id: 1210.0360
title: Paradigms for Quantum Feedback Control
authors: L. D. T¨®th
comments: 39 pages including title page and 3 pages of references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0360
abstract: In this review paper, we survey the main concepts and some of the recent developments in quantum feedback control. For consistency and clarity, essential ideas and notations in the theory of open quantum systems and quantum stochastic calculus, as well as continuous measurement theory are developed. We give a general description of quantum feedback control, set up a coherent model and compare it to open-loop designs. Objectives which can be achieved by feedback, such as rapid state preparation and purification or entanglement generation are formulated and analyzed, based on the relevant literature. The connection between quantum feedback and quantum chaos is also described and unravelled which, apart from its theoretical curiosity, can shed more light on some of the intrinsic properties of this control paradigm.

id: 1210.0414
title: Quantum Correlations in a Few-Atom Spin-1 Bose-Hubbard Model
authors: B. ?akmak, G. Karpat, Z. Gedik
comments: To be published in the Proceedings of CEWQO-2012
journal: Phys. Scr. T 153 (2013) 014008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0414
abstract: We study the thermal quantum correlations and entanglement in spin-1 Bose-Hubbard model with two and three particles. While we use negativity to calculate entanglement, more general non-classical correlations are quantified using a new measure based on a necessary and sufficient condition for zero-discord state. We demonstrate that the energy level crossings in the ground state of the system are signalled by both the behavior of thermal quantum correlations and entanglement.

id: 1210.0426
title: Comment on "Numerical estimates of the spectrum for anharmonic PT symmetric potentials" by Bowen et al
authors: Carl M. Bender, Stefan Boettcher
comments: Two pages, no figures. This manuscript was submitted and received by Physica Scripta on September 8, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0426
abstract: The paper by Bowen, Mancini, Fessatidis, and Murawski (2012 Phys. Scr. {\bf 85}, 065005) demonstrates in a dramatic fashion the serious difficulties that can arise when one rushes to perform numerical studies before understanding the physics and mathematics of the problem at hand and without understanding the limitations of the numerical methods used. Based on their flawed numerical work, the authors conclude that the work of Bender and Boettcher is wrong even though it has been verified at a completely rigorous level. Unfortunately, the numerical procedures performed and described in the paper by Bowen et al are incorrectly applied and wrongly interpreted.

id: 1210.0432
title: On the question of wavefunction collapse in a double-slit diffraction experiment
authors: Fotini Pallikari
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0432
abstract: It was recently proposed that the fringe visibility in the interference pattern of a double-slit diffraction experiment with a HeNe laser beam was reduced as a consequence of the focused attention of participants on the double-slit that initiated the collapse of the photon wavefunction. A thorough examination of the reported apparatus and diffraction pattern data is presented here revealing a number of inconsistencies in the experimental setup. The hypothesis for wavefunction collapse under the proposed experimental conditions is found problematic as the use of single photon sources is demanded.

id: 1210.0433
title: A geometric characterization of invertible quantum measurement maps
authors: Kan He, Jin-Chuan Hou, Chi-Kwong Li
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0433
abstract: A geometric characterization is given for invertible quantum measurement maps. Denote by ${\mathcal S}(H)$ the convex set of all states (i.e., trace-1 positive operators) on Hilbert space $H$ with dim$H\leq \infty$, and $[\rho_1, \rho_2]$ the line segment joining two elements $\rho_1, \rho_2$ in ${\mathcal S}(H)$. It is shown that a bijective map $\phi:{\mathcal S}(H) \rightarrow {\mathcal S}(H)$ satisfies $\phi([\rho_1, \rho_2]) \subseteq [\phi(\rho_1),\phi(\rho_2)]$ for any $\rho_1, \rho_2 \in {\mathcal S}$ if and only if $\phi$ has one of the following forms $$\rho \mapsto \frac{M\rho M^*}{{\rm tr}(M\rho M^*)}\quad \hbox{or} \quad \rho \mapsto \frac{M\rho^T M^*}{{\rm tr}(M\rho^T M^*)},$$ where $M$ is an invertible bounded linear operator and $\rho^T$ is the transpose of $\rho$ with respect to an arbitrarily fixed orthonormal basis.

id: 1210.0436
title: Gleason, Kochen-Specker, and a competition that never was
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures; talk at the Vaxjo conference QTRF-6, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0436
abstract: I review the two theorems referred to in the title, and then suggest that it would be interesting to know how much of Hilbert space one can use without forcing the proof of these theorems. It would also be interesting to know what parts of Hilbert space that are essential for the proofs. I go on to discuss cubes, graphs, and pentagrams.

id: 1210.0463
title: Recoupling Coefficients and Quantum Entropies
authors: Matthias Christandl, Mehmet Burak ?ahino?lu, Michael Walter
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0463
abstract: In this work, we show that the asymptotic limit of the recoupling coefficients of the symmetric group is characterized by the existence of quantum states of three particles with given eigenvalues for their reduced density matrices. This parallels Wigner's observation that the semiclassical behavior of the 6j-symbols for SU(2)---fundamental to the quantum theory of angular momentum---is governed by the existence of Euclidean tetrahedra. We explain how to deduce solely from symmetry properties of the recoupling coefficients the strong subadditivity of the von Neumann entropy, first proved by Lieb and Ruskai, and discuss possible generalizations of our result.

id: 1210.0464
title: State-extended uncertainly relations and tomographic inequalities as quantum system state characteristics
authors: V. N. Chernega, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 10 pages, submitted as contributions to Proceedings of conference in Turin, may 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0464
abstract: Some inequalities for probability vector are discussed. The probability representation of quantum mechanics where the states are mapped onto probability vectors (either ?nite or in?nite dimensional) called the state tomograms is used. Examples of inequalities for qudit tomograms and a state extended uncertainly relation are considered. Tomographic cumulant related to photon state tomographic probability distributions is introduced and it is used as parameter of the state nongaussianity.

id: 1210.0486
title: Relation between semi- and fully-device-independent protocols
authors: Hong-Wei Li, Piotr Mironowicz, Marcin Pawlowski, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Yu-Chun Wu, Shuang Wang, Wei Chen, Hong-Gang Hu, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 020302(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0486
abstract: We study the relation between semi and fully device independent protocols. As a tool, we use the correspondence between Bell inequalities and dimension witnesses. We present a method for converting the former into the latter and vice versa. This relation provides us with interesting results for both scenarios. First, we find new random number generation protocols with higher bit rates for both the semi and fully device independent cases. As a byproduct, we obtain whole new classes of Bell inequalities and dimension witnesses. Then, we show how optimization methods used in studies on Bell inequalities can be adopted for dimension witnesses.

id: 1210.0488
title: Phonon-mediated population inversion in a semiconductor quantum-dot cavity system
authors: S. Hughes, H. J. Carmichael
comments: 
journal: 2013 New J. Phys. 15 053039
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0488
abstract: We investigate pump-induced exciton inversion in a quantum-dot cavity system with continuous wave drive. Using a polaron-based master equation, we demonstrate excited-state populations above 0.9 for an InAs dot at a phonon bath temperature of 4K. In an exciton-driven system, the dominant mechanism is incoherent excitation from the phonon bath. For cavity driving, the mechanism is phonon-mediated switching between ground- and excited-state branches of the ladder of photon states, as quantum trajectory simulations clearly show. The exciton inversion as a function of detuning is found to be qualitatively different for exciton and cavity driving, primarily due to cavity filtering. The master equation approach allows us to include important radiative and non-radiative decay processes on the zero phonon line, provides a clear underlying dynamic in terms of photon and phonon scattering, and admits simple analytical approximations that help to explain the physics.

id: 1210.0548
title: All entangled states display some hidden nonlocality
authors: Yeong-Cherng Liang, Lluis Masanes, Denis Rosset
comments: v2: Essentially published version
journal: Physical Review A vol. 86, art. 052115 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0548
abstract: A well-known manifestation of quantum entanglement is that it may lead to correlations that are inexplicable within the framework of a locally causal theory --- a fact that is demonstrated by the quantum violation of Bell inequalities. The precise relationship between quantum entanglement and the violation of Bell inequalities is, however, not well understood. While it is known that entanglement is necessary for such a violation, it is not clear whether all entangled states violate a Bell inequality, even in the scenario where one allows joint operations on multiple copies of the state and local filtering operations before the Bell experiment. In this paper we show that all entangled states, namely, all non-fully-separable states of arbitrary Hilbert space dimension and arbitrary number of parties, violate a Bell inequality when combined with another state which on its own cannot violate the same Bell inequality. This result shows that quantum entanglement and quantum nonlocality are in some sense equivalent, thus giving an affirmative answer to the aforementioned open question. It follows from our result that two entangled states that are apparently useless in demonstrating quantum nonlocality via a specific Bell inequality can be combined to give a Bell violation of the same inequality. Explicit examples of such activation phenomenon are provided.

id: 1210.0611
title: On the Automation of Encoding Processes in the Quantum IO Monad
authors: James Barratt
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298. In memory of my brother, Bill Barratt (1972- 2010)
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 15-19
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0611
abstract: It is now clear that the use of resilient encoding schemes will be required for any quantum computing device to be realised. However, quantum programmers of the future will not wish to be tied up in the particulars of such encoding schemes. Quantum programming languages and libraries are already being developed, one of which is the Quantum IO Monad. QIO, as it is often abbreviated to, provides an interface to define and simulate quantum computations via a library of functions written in Haskell, a purely functional programming language. A solution is presented that takes an arbitrary QIO program and returns an equivalent program incorporating some specified quantum error correction techniques.

id: 1210.0612
title: A Topos Theory Foundation for Quantum Mechanics
authors: John V Corbett
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298. Dedicated to the memory of Professor Angas Hurst
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 37-53
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0612
abstract: The theory of quantum mechanics is examined using non-standard real numbers, called quantum real numbers (qr-numbers), that are constructed from standard Hilbert space entities. Our goal is to resolve some of the paradoxical features of the standard theory by providing the physical attributes of quantum systems with numerical values that are Dedekind real numbers in the topos of sheaves on the state space of the quantum system. The measured standard real number values of a physical attribute are then obtained as constant qr-number approximations to variable qr-numbers. Considered as attributes, the spatial locations of massive quantum particles form non-classical spatial continua in which a single particle can have a quantum trajectory which passes through two classically separated slits and the two particles in the Bohm-Bell experiment stay close to each other in quantum space so that Einstein locality is retained.

id: 1210.0616
title: Completely positive classical structures and sequentializable quantum protocols
authors: Chris Heunen, Sergio Boixo
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 91-101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0616
abstract: We study classical structures in various categories of completely positive morphisms: on sets and relations, on cobordisms, on a free dagger compact category, and on Hilbert spaces. As an application, we prove that quantum maps with commuting Kraus operators can be sequentialized. Hence such protocols are precisely as robust under general dephasing noise when entangled as when sequential.

id: 1210.0617
title: Graphical Classification of Entangled Qutrits
authors: Kentaro Honda
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 123-141
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0617
abstract: A multipartite quantum state is entangled if it is not separable. Quantum entanglement plays a fundamental role in many applications of quantum information theory, such as quantum teleportation. Stochastic local quantum operations and classical communication (SLOCC) cannot essentially change quantum entanglement without destroying it. Therefore, entanglement can be classified by dividing quantum states into equivalence classes, where two states are equivalent if each can be converted into the other by SLOCC. Properties of this classification, especially in the case of non two-dimensional quantum systems, have not been well studied. Graphical representation is sometimes used to clarify the nature and structural features of entangled states. SLOCC equivalence of quantum bits (qubits) has been described graphically via a connection between tripartite entangled qubit states and commutative Frobenius algebras (CFAs) in monoidal categories. In this paper, we extend this method to qutrits, i.e., systems that have three basis states. We examine the correspondence between CFAs and tripartite entangled qutrits. Using the symmetry property, which is required by the definition of a CFA, we find that there are only three equivalence classes that correspond to CFAs. We represent qutrits graphically, using the connection to CFAs. We derive equations that characterize the three equivalence classes. Moreover, we show that any qutrit can be represented as a composite of three graphs that correspond to the three classes.

id: 1210.0618
title: Generalizations of Boxworld
authors: Peter Janotta
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 183-192
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0618
abstract: Boxworld is a toy theory that can generate extremal nonlocal correlations known as PR boxes. These have been well established as an important tool to examine general nonlocal correlations, even beyond the correlations that are possible in quantum theory. We modify boxworld to include new features. The first modification affects the construction of joint systems such that the new theory allows entangled measurements as well as entangled states in contrast to the standard version of boxworld. The extension to multipartite systems and the consequences for entanglement swapping are analysed. Another modification provides continuous transitions between classical probability theory and boxworld, including the algebraic expression for the maximal CHSH violation as a function of the transition parameters.

id: 1210.0620
title: Symmetry constraints on temporal order in measurement-based quantum computation
authors: R. Raussendorf, P. Sarvepalli, T.-C. Wei, P. Haghnegahdar
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 219-250
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0620
abstract: We discuss the interdependence of resource state, measurement setting and temporal order in measurement-based quantum computation. The possible temporal orders of measurement events are constrained by the principle that the randomness inherent in quantum measurement should not affect the outcome of the computation. We provide a classification for all temporal relations among measurement events compatible with a given initial stabilizer state and measurement setting, in terms of a matroid. Conversely, we show that classical processing relations necessary for turning the local measurement outcomes into computational output determine the resource state and measurement setting up to local equivalence. Further, we find a symmetry transformation related to local complementation that leaves the temporal relations invariant.

id: 1210.0642
title: Quantum state preparation of a mechanical resonator using an optomechanical geometric phase
authors: K. E. Khosla, M. R. Vanner, W. P. Bowen, G. J. Milburn
comments: 10 pages, 5 figuers
journal: 2013 New J. Phys. 15 043025
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0642
abstract: We demonstrate that a geometric phase, generated via a sequence of four optomechanical interactions, can be used to increase, or generate nonlinearities in the unitary evolution of a mechanical resonator. Interactions of this form lead to new mechanisms for preparing mechanical squeezed states, and preparation of non-classical states with significant Wigner negativity.

id: 1210.0644
title: Conditions for uniqueness of product representations for separable quantum channels and separable quantum states
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: Latest version has a new title, and is completely reorganized to emphasize the quantum information applications as opposed to the mathematical results. Version 3 has revised results for more than two parties, having discovered an error in earlier versions (see Conclusions for an explanation). Bipartite results are unchanged
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 55, 062202 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0644
abstract: We give a sufficient condition that an operator sum representation of a separable quantum channel in terms of product operators is the unique product representation for that channel, and then provide examples of such channels for any number of parties. This result has implications for efforts to determine whether or not a given separable channel can be exactly implemented by local operations and classical communication. By the Choi-Jamiolkowski isomorphism, it also translates to a condition for the uniqueness of product state ensembles representing a given quantum state. These ideas follow from considerations concerning whether or not a subspace spanned by a given set of product operators contains at least one additional product operator.

id: 1210.0650
title: Superdense Coding with GHZ and Quantum Key Distribution with W in the ZX-calculus
authors: Anne Hillebrand
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 103-121
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0650
abstract: Quantum entanglement is a key resource in many quantum protocols, such as quantum teleportation and quantum cryptography. Yet entanglement makes protocols presented in Dirac notation difficult to verify. This is why Coecke and Duncan have introduced a diagrammatic language for quantum protocols, called the ZX-calculus. This diagrammatic notation is both intuitive and formally rigorous. It is a simple, graphical, high level language that emphasises the composition of systems and naturally captures the essentials of quantum mechanics. In the author's MSc thesis it has been shown for over 25 quantum protocols that the ZX-calculus provides a relatively easy and more intuitive presentation. Moreover, the author embarked on the task to apply categorical quantum mechanics on quantum security; earlier works did not touch anything but Bennett and Brassard's quantum key distribution protocol, BB84. Superdense coding with the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state and quantum key distribution with the W-state are presented in the ZX-calculus in this paper.

id: 1210.0745
title: Classical simulation of partially entangled states
authors: H. M. Bharath, V. Ravishankar
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author following the recent submission of a more detailed paper(arXiv:1401.5129) that includes the results presented in this paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0745
abstract: We investigate the possibility of simulating partially entangled two qubit states by separable states of higher spins. First, we show that all partially entangled isotropic states can be simulated classically. We further investigate partially entangled pure states, and their binary mixtures and find that these systems forbid such a simulation, signifying that separability does not have a universal character in determining the inherent quantum nature of a state.

id: 1210.0751
title: Direct observation of the degree of quantum correlations using photon-number resolving detectors
authors: L. Dovrat, M. Bakstein, D. Istrati, E. Megidish, A. Halevy, H. S. Eisenberg
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053813 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0751
abstract: Optical parametric down-conversion is a common source for the generation of non-classical correlated photonic states. Using a parametric down-conversion source and photon-number resolving detectors, we measure the two-mode photon-number distribution of up to 10 photons. By changing the heralded collection efficiency, we control the level of correlations between the two modes. Clear evidence for photon-number correlations are presented despite detector imperfections such as low detection efficiency and other distorting effects. Two criteria, derived directly from the raw data, are shown to be good measures for the degree of correlation. Additionally, using a fitting technique, we find a connection between the measured photon-number distribution and the degree of correlation of the reconstructed original two-mode state. These observations are only possible as a result of the detection of high photon number events.

id: 1210.0777
title: Variable Phase S-Matrix Calculations for Asymmetric Potentials and Dielectrics
authors: Aden Forrow, Noah Graham
comments: 12 pages, 5 .eps figures, RevTeX; v2: added sample numerical calculations, minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062715 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0777
abstract: Motivated by recently developed techniques making it possible to compute Casimir energies for any object whose scattering S-matrix (or, equivalently, T-matrix) is available, we develop a variable phase method to compute the S-matrix for localized but asymmetric sources. Starting from the case of scalar potential scattering, we develop a combined inward/outward integration algorithm that is numerically efficient and extends robustly to imaginary wave number. We then extend these results to electromagnetic scattering from a position-dependent dielectric. This case requires additional modifications to disentangle the transverse and longitudinal modes.

id: 1210.0787
title: Testing quantum expanders is co-QMA-complete
authors: Adam D. Bookatz, Stephen P. Jordan, Yi-Kai Liu, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 
journal: Quantum nonexpander problem is quantum-Merlin-Arthur-complete, Phys. Rev. A 87, 042317 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0787
abstract: A quantum expander is a unital quantum channel that is rapidly mixing, has only a few Kraus operators, and can be implemented efficiently on a quantum computer. We consider the problem of estimating the mixing time (i.e., the spectral gap) of a quantum expander. We show that this problem is co-QMA-complete. This has applications to testing randomized constructions of quantum expanders, and studying thermalization of open quantum systems.

id: 1210.0791
title: Quantum reading of digital memory with non-Gaussian entangled light
authors: J. Prabhu Tej, A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052308 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0791
abstract: It has been shown recently (Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 090504 (2011)) that entangled light with Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) correlations retrieves information from digital memory better than any classical light. In identifying this, a model of digital memory with each cell consisting of reflecting medium with two reflectivities (each memory cell encoding the binary numbers 0 or 1) is employed. The readout of binary memory essentially corresponds to discrimination of two Bosonic attenuator channels characterized by different reflectivities. The model requires an entire mathematical paraphernalia of continuous variable Gaussian setting for its analysis, when arbitrary values of reflectivities are considered. Here we restrict to a basic quantum read-out mechanism with non-Gaussian entangled states of light, with the binary channels to be discriminated being ideal memory characterized by reflectivity one i.e., an identity channel and thermal noise channel, where the signal light illuminating the memory location gets completely lost (zero reflectivity) and only a white thermal noise hitting the upper side of the memory reaches the decoder. We compare the quantum reading efficiency of entangled light with any classical source of light in this model. We show that entangled transmitters offer better reading performance than any classical transmitters of light in the regime of low signal intensity.

id: 1210.0796
title: Quantum entanglement based on surface phonon polaritons in condensed matter systems
authors: Yang Ming, Zi-jian Wu, Xi-kui Hu, Fei Xu, Yan-qing Lu
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: AIP Advances 3, 042122 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0796
abstract: Condensed matter systems are potential candidates to realize the integration of quantum information circuits. Surface phonon polariton (SPhP) is a special propagation mode in condensed matter systems. We present an investigation on the entanglement of SPhP modes. The entangled pairs are generated from entangled photons injected to the system. Quantum performances of entangled SPhPs are investigated by using the interaction Hamiltonian and the perturbation theory. The wave mechanics approach is taken to describe the coupling process as a comparison. Finally, the correlation of system is examined. A whole set of descriptions of SPhP entanglement thus are presented.

id: 1210.0814
title: Micro-resonator based all-optical transistor
authors: B. D. Clader, S. M. Hendrickson
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0814
abstract: We present theoretical estimates for a high-speed, low-loss, all-optical transistor using a micro-resonator device, whose fields interact evanescently with Rubidium vapor. We use a four-level electromagnetically induced absorption scheme to couple the light fields of the transistor. We show results indicating that a weak control beam can switch a much stronger signal beam, with contrast of greater than 25 dB and loss less than 0.5 dB. The switching timescale is on the order of 100 ps.

id: 1210.0913
title: Summoning Information in Spacetime, or Where and When Can a Qubit Be?
authors: Patrick Hayden, Alex May
comments: v1: 5 pages, 1.2 figures per page on average. v2: 2 words and one arrow added. v3: now includes an efficient construction v4: bug fix in construction, new abstract v5: cosmetic changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0913
abstract: One of the most important properties of quantum information, and the one ultimately responsible for its cryptographic applications, is that it can't be copied. That statement, however, is not completely accurate. While the no-cloning theorem of quantum mechanics prevents quantum information from being copied in space, the reversibility of microscopic physics actually requires that the information be copied in time. In spacetime as a whole, therefore, quantum information is widely replicated but in a restricted fashion. We fully characterize which regions of spacetime can all hold the same quantum information. Because quantum information can be delocalized through quantum error correction and teleportation, it need not follow well-defined trajectories. Instead, replication of the information in any configuration of spacetime regions not leading to violations of causality or the no-cloning principle is allowed. To demonstrate this, we answer the operational question of exactly when the information can be summoned to a set of spacetime points, showing how to do so efficiently using a combination of teleportation and codeword-stabilized quantum codes. This provides a simple and complete description of where and when a qubit can be located in spacetime, revealing a remarkable variety of possibilities.

id: 1210.0944
title: Reverse Engineering Quantum Field Theory
authors: Robert Oeckl
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX + aipproc (included), contribution to the proceedings of the conference "Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations - 6" (V\"axj\"o, 2012)
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1508 (2012) 428-432
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0944
abstract: An approach to the foundations of quantum theory is advertised that proceeds by "reverse engineering" quantum field theory. As a concrete instance of this approach, the general boundary formulation of quantum theory is outlined.

id: 1210.0961
title: An experimental test of the non-classicality of quantum mechanics using an unmovable and indivisible system
authors: Xi Kong, Mingjun Shi, Fazhan Shi, Pengfei Wang, Pu Huang, Qi Zhang, Chenyong Ju, Changkui Duan, Sixia Yu, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0961
abstract: Quantum mechanics provides a statistical description about nature, and thus would be incomplete if its statistical predictions could not be accounted for by some realistic models with hidden variables. There are, however, two powerful theorems against the hidden-variable theories showing that certain quantum features cannot be reproduced based on two rationale premises of locality, Bell's theorem, and noncontextuality, due to Bell, Kochen and Specker (BKS). Noncontextuality is independent of nonlocality, and the contextuality manifests itself even in a single object. Here we report an experimental verification of quantum contextuality by a single spin-1 electron system at room temperature. Such a three-level system is indivisible and then we close the compatibility loophole which exists in the experiments performed on bipartite systems. Our results confirm the quantum contextuality to be the intrinsic property of single particles.

id: 1210.0970
title: Revisiting 1-Dimensional Double-Barrier Tunneling in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Zhi Xiao, Shi-sen Du, Chun-Xi Zhang
comments: 14 pages, 18 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0970
abstract: This paper revisited quantum tunneling dynamics through a square double-barrier potential. We emphasized the similarity of tunneling dynamics through double-barrier and that of optical Fabry--P$\acute{e}$rot (FP) interferometer. Based on this similarity, we showed that the well-known resonant tunneling can also be interpreted as a result of matter multi-wave interference, analogous to that of FP interferometer. From this analogy, we also got an analytical finesse formula of double-barrier. Compared with that obtained numerically for a specific barrier configuration, we found that this formula works well for resonances at "deep tunneling region". Besides that, we also calculated standing wave spectrum inside the well of double barriers and phase time of double-barrier tunneling. The wave number spectrums of standing wave and phase time show another points of view on resonance. From semi-numerical calculations, we interpreted the peak of phase time at resonance as resonance life time, which coincides at least in order of magnitude with that obtained from uncertainty principle. Not to our surprise, phase time of double-barrier tunneling also saturates at long barrier length limit $l\rightarrow\infty$ as that of tunneling through a single barrier, and the limits are the same.

id: 1210.0974
title: Quantum circuits of T-depth one
authors: Peter Selinger
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0974
abstract: We give a Clifford+T representation of the Toffoli gate of T-depth 1, using four ancillas. More generally, we describe a class of circuits whose T-depth can be reduced to 1 by using sufficiently many ancillas. We show that the cost of adding an additional control to any controlled gate is at most 8 additional T-gates, and T-depth 2. We also show that the circuit THT does not possess a T-depth 1 representation with an arbitrary number of ancillas initialized to 0.

id: 1210.0991
title: Breakdown of the cross-Kerr scheme for Photon Counting
authors: Bixuan Fan, Anton F. Kockum, Joshua Combes, G?ran Johansson, Io-chun Hoi, Christopher Wilson, Per Delsing, G. J. Milburn, Thomas M. Stace
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 053601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0991
abstract: We show, in the context of single photon detection, that an atomic three-level model for a transmon in a transmission line does not support the predictions of the nonlinear polarisability model known as the cross-Kerr effect. We show that the induced displacement of a probe in the presence or absence of a single photon in the signal field, cannot be resolved above the quantum noise in the probe. This strongly suggests that cross-Kerr media are not suitable for photon counting or related single photon applications. Our results are presented in the context of a transmon in a one dimensional microwave waveguide, but the conclusions also apply to optical systems.

id: 1210.1009
title: A Faithful Communication Hamiltonian in Photonic Lattices
authors: Matthieu Bellec, Georgios M. Nikolopoulos, Stelios Tzortzakis
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, to be published in Optics Letters
journal: Optics Letters vol. 37, 4504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1009
abstract: Faithful communication is a necessary precondition for large scale all-optical networking and quantum information processing. Related theoretical investigations in different areas of physics have led to various proposals in which finite discrete lattices are used as channels for short-distance communication tasks. Here, in the framework of femtosecond-laser-written waveguide arrays, we present the first experimental realization of such a channel with judiciously engineered couplings.

id: 1210.1014
title: Improved Quantum Query Algorithms for Triangle Finding and Associativity Testing
authors: Troy Lee, Frederic Magniez, Miklos Santha
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1014
abstract: We show that the quantum query complexity of detecting if an $n$-vertex graph contains a triangle is $O(n^{9/7})$. This improves the previous best algorithm of Belovs making $O(n^{35/27})$ queries. For the problem of determining if an operation $\circ : S \times S \rightarrow S$ is associative, we give an algorithm making $O(|S|^{10/7})$ queries, the first improvement to the trivial $O(|S|^{3/2})$ application of Grover search. Our algorithms are designed using the learning graph framework of Belovs. We give a family of algorithms for detecting constant-sized subgraphs, which can possibly be directed and colored. These algorithms are designed in a simple high-level language; our main theorem shows how this high-level language can be compiled as a learning graph and gives the resulting complexity. The key idea to our improvements is to allow more freedom in the parameters of the database kept by the algorithm. As in our previous work, the edge slots maintained in the database are specified by a graph whose edges are the union of regular bipartite graphs, the overall structure of which mimics that of the graph of the certificate. By allowing these bipartite graphs to be unbalanced and of variable degree we obtain better algorithms.

id: 1210.1021
title: Robust open-loop stabilization of Fock states by time-varying quantum interactions
authors: Alain Sarlette, Pierre Rouchon
comments: 
journal: Proc. 4th IFAC Workshop on Lagrangian and Hamiltonian Methods for Nonlinear Control, pp. 208-213 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1021
abstract: A quantum harmonic oscillator (spring subsystem) is stabilized towards a target Fock state by reservoir engineering. This passive and open-loop stabilization works by consecutive and identical Hamiltonian interactions with auxiliary systems, here three-level atoms (the auxiliary ladder subsystem), followed by a partial trace over these auxiliary atoms. A scalar control input governs the interaction, defining which atomic transition in the ladder subsystem is in resonance with the spring subsystem. We use it to build a time-varying interaction with individual atoms, that combines three non-commuting steps. We show that the resulting reservoir robustly stabilizes any initial spring state distributed between 0 and 4n+3 quanta of vibrations towards a pure target Fock state of vibration number n. The convergence proof relies on the construction of a strict Lyapunov function for the Kraus map induced by this reservoir setting on the spring subsystem. Simulations with realistic parameters corresponding to the quantum electrodynamics setup at Ecole Normale Superieure further illustrate the robustness of the method.

id: 1210.1049
title: Experimental wavelength division multiplexed photon pair distribution
authors: Joe Ghalbouni, Imad Agha, Robert Frey, Eleni Diamanti, Isabelle Zaquine
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Optics Letters
journal: Opt. Lett. 38, 34 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1049
abstract: We have experimentally implemented the distribution of photon pairs produced by spontaneous parametric down conversion through telecom dense wavelength division multiplexing filters. Using the measured counts and coincidences between symmetric channels, we evaluate the maximum fringe visibility that can be obtained with polarization entangled photons and compare different filter technologies.

id: 1210.1054
title: Entanglement verification via nonlinear witnesses
authors: Megan Agnew, Jeff Z. Salvail, Jonathan Leach, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1054
abstract: The controlled generation of entangled states and their subsequent detection are integral aspects of quantum information science. In this work, we analyse the application of nonlinear witnesses to the verification of entanglement, and we demonstrate experimentally that nonlinear witnesses perform significantly better than linear witnesses. Specifically, we demonstrate that a single non- linear entanglement witness is able to determine to a high degree of certainty that a mixed state containing orbital angular momentum (OAM) entanglement of specific forms is entangled for any relative phase and sufficient fidelity. This is a significant improvement over linear witnesses, which cannot provide the same level of performance. We envisage that nonlinear witnesses and our method of state preparation will have further uses in areas of quantum science such as superdense coding and quantum key distribution.

id: 1210.1055
title: Systems of Imprimitivity for the Clifford Group
authors: D. M. Appleby, Ingemar Bengtsson, Stephen Brierley, ?sa Ericsson, Markus Grassl, Jan-?ke Larsson
comments: 28 pages, AMS latex
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 14, No. 3 & 4, 0339-0360 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1055
abstract: It is known that if the dimension is a perfect square the Clifford group can be represented by monomial matrices. Another way of expressing this result is to say that when the dimension is a perfect square the standard representation of the Clifford group has a system of imprimitivity consisting of one dimensional subspaces. We generalize this result to the case of an arbitrary dimension. Let k be the square-free part of the dimension. Then we show that the standard representation of the Clifford group has a system of imprimitivity consisting of k-dimensional subspaces. To illustrate the use of this result we apply it to the calculation of SIC-POVMs (symmetric informationally complete positive operator valued measures), constructing exact solutions in dimensions 8 (hand-calculation) as well as 12 and 28 (machine-calculation).

id: 1210.1088
title: Separable states with unique decompositions
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 26 pages, 1 figure. A part on SPA conjecture is withdrawn
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, Volume 328, Issue 1, pp 131-153 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1088
abstract: We search for faces of the convex set consisting of all separable states, which are affinely isomorphic to simplices, to get separable states with unique decompositions. In the two-qutrit case, we found that six product vectors spanning a five dimensional space give rise to a face isomorphic to the 5-dimensional simplex with six vertices, under suitable linear independence assumption. If the partial conjugates of six product vectors also span a 5-dimensional space, then this face is inscribed in the face for PPT states whose boundary shares the fifteen 3-simplices on the boundary of the 5-simplex. The remaining boundary points consist of PPT entangled edge states of rank four. We also show that every edge state of rank four arises in this way. If the partial conjugates of the above six product vectors span a 6-dimensional space then we have a face isomorphic to 5-simplex, whose interior consists of separable states with unique decompositions, but with non-symmetric ranks. We also construct a face isomorphic to the 9-simplex. As applications, we give answers to questions in the literature \cite{chen_dj_semialg,chen_dj_ext_PPT}, and construct $3\ot 3$ PPT states of type (9,5). For the qubit-qudit cases with $d\ge 3$, we also show that $(d+1)$-dimensional subspaces give rise to faces isomorphic to the $d$-simplices, in most cases.

id: 1210.1105
title: Simultaneous Estimation of Dimension, States and Measurements: Computation of representative density matrices and POVMs
authors: Cyril Stark
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1105
abstract: This investigation continues a program aiming at obtaining effective quantum models to describe measurement statistics. In [Stark, arXiv:1209.5737 (2012)], we have described how the Gram matrix associated to the prepared states and the performed POVM elements can be estimated via convex relaxation of a rank minimization problem. This Gram matrix determines the density matrices and the POVM elements uniquely up to simultaneous rotations (with respect to the Hilbert-Schmidt inner product) in the vector space of Hermitian matrices. However, when the description of the experiment needs to be connected to textbook quantum mechanics, explicit expressions for the states and the POVM elements in terms of positive semidefinite matrices are required. In this paper, we describe a heuristic algorithm that takes the state-meaurement Gram matrix as input and searches explicit realizations of this Gram matrix in terms of quantum mechanically valid density matrices and POVM elements.

id: 1210.1113
title: Decoy-State Quantum Key Distribution with Nonclassical Light Generated in a One-dimensional Waveguide
authors: Huaixiu Zheng, Daniel J. Gauthier, Harold U. Baranger
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 38, 622 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1113
abstract: We investigate a decoy-state quantum key distribution (QKD) scheme with a sub-Poissonian single-photon source, which is generated on demand by scattering a coherent state off a two-level system in a one-dimensional waveguide. We show that, compared to coherent state decoy-state QKD, there is a two-fold increase of the key generation rate. Furthermore, the performance is shown to be robust against both parameter variations and loss effects of the system.

id: 1210.1122
title: Hidden entanglement in the presence of random telegraph dephasing noise
authors: A. D'Arrigo, R. Lo Franco, G. Benenti, E. Paladino, G. Falci
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, submitted to Physica Scripta on September 17th 2012
journal: Phys. Scr. T153 (2013) 014014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1122
abstract: Entanglement dynamics of two noninteracting qubits, locally affected by random telegraph noise at pure dephasing, exhibits revivals. These revivals are not due to the action of any nonlocal operation, thus their occurrence may appear paradoxical since entanglement is by definition a nonlocal resource. We show that a simple explanation of this phenomenon may be provided by using the (recently introduced) concept of "hidden" entanglement, which signals the presence of entanglement that may be recovered with the only help of local operations.

id: 1210.1138
title: The Schr?dinger equation and its generalized analogs derived by the quantum hydrodynamic representation
authors: Piero Chiarelli
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1107.4198
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1138
abstract: The derivation of the Schr\"odinger-like equations from the system of equations of the quantum hydrodynamic analogy (QHA) is analyzed in presence of fluctuations. If in absence of fluctuation each QHA solution can be tracked back to the equivalent one of the Schr\"odinger problem, in presence of fluctuations the work shows that the ensemble of solution of the QHA equations is wider than the Schr\"odinger one and the tracking-back procedure from the QHA problem to the original Schr\"odinger equation is not generally possible. The break-down of the mathematical correspondence is inspected and correlated to the characteristics of the states. Finally, the paper shows that if the form of Schr\"odinger equation is generalized, the QHA stochastic case as well as its classical limit can be translated into a Schr\"odinger-like representation.

id: 1210.1148
title: Quantum algorithms for search with wildcards and combinatorial group testing
authors: Andris Ambainis, Ashley Montanaro
comments: 14 pages; v4: further corrections and clarifications, results slightly weakened
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, vol. 14 no. 5&6, pp. 439-453, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1148
abstract: We consider two combinatorial problems. The first we call "search with wildcards": given an unknown n-bit string x, and the ability to check whether any subset of the bits of x is equal to a provided query string, the goal is to output x. We give a nearly optimal O(sqrt(n) log n) quantum query algorithm for search with wildcards, beating the classical lower bound of Omega(n) queries. Rather than using amplitude amplification or a quantum walk, our algorithm is ultimately based on the solution to a state discrimination problem. The second problem we consider is combinatorial group testing, which is the task of identifying a subset of at most k special items out of a set of n items, given the ability to make queries of the form "does the set S contain any special items?" for any subset S of the n items. We give a simple quantum algorithm which uses O(k log k) queries to solve this problem, as compared with the classical lower bound of Omega(k log(n/k)) queries.

id: 1210.1150
title: Experimental characterization of bosonic photon creation and annihilation operators
authors: R. Kumar, E. Barrios, C. Kupchak, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 130403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1150
abstract: The photon creation and annihilation operators are cornerstones of the quantum description of the electromagnetic field. They signify the isomorphism of the optical Hilbert space to that of the harmonic oscillator and the bosonic nature of photons. We perform complete experimental characterization (quantum process tomography) of these operators. By measuring their effect on coherent states, we obtain their process tensor in the Fock basis, which explicitly shows the "raising" and "lowering" properties of these operators with respect to photon number states. This is the first experimental demonstration of complete tomography of non-deterministic quantum processes.

id: 1210.1173
title: Bell nonlocality and Bayesian game theory
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Noah Linden
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2057 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1173
abstract: We discuss a connection between Bell nonlocality and Bayesian games. This link offers interesting perspectives for Bayesian games, namely to allow the players to receive advice in the form of nonlocal correlations, for instance using entangled quantum particles or more general no-signaling boxes. The possibility of having such 'nonlocal advice' will lead to novel joint strategies, impossible to achieve in the classical setting. This implies that quantum resources, or more general no-signaling resources, offer a genuine advantage over classical ones. Moreover, some of these strategies can represent equilibrium points, leading to the notion of quantum/no-signaling Nash equilibrium. Finally we describe new types of question in the study of nonlocality, namely the consideration of non-local advantage when there is a set of Bell expressions.

id: 1210.1199
title: Nested Quantum Walks with Quantum Data Structures
authors: Stacey Jeffery, Robin Kothari, Frederic Magniez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1199
abstract: We develop a new framework that extends the quantum walk framework of Magniez, Nayak, Roland, and Santha, by utilizing the idea of quantum data structures to construct an efficient method of nesting quantum walks. Surprisingly, only classical data structures were considered before for searching via quantum walks. The recently proposed learning graph framework of Belovs has yielded improved upper bounds for several problems, including triangle finding and more general subgraph detection. We exhibit the power of our framework by giving a simple explicit constructions that reproduce both the $O(n^{35/27})$ and $O(n^{9/7})$ learning graph upper bounds (up to logarithmic factors) for triangle finding, and discuss how other known upper bounds in the original learning graph framework can be converted to algorithms in our framework. We hope that the ease of use of this framework will lead to the discovery of new upper bounds.

id: 1210.1234
title: Engineered Quantum Dot Single Photon Sources
authors: Sonia Buckley, Kelley Rivoire, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: Review article
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 75 126503, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1234
abstract: Fast, high efficiency, and low error single photon sources are required for implementation of a number of quantum information processing applications. The fastest triggered single photon sources to date have been demonstrated using epitaxially grown semiconductor quantum dots (QDs), which can be conveniently integrated with optical microcavities. Recent advances in QD technology, including demonstrations of high temperature and telecommunications wavelength single photon emission, have made QD single photon sources more practical. Here we discuss the applications of single photon sources and their various requirements, before reviewing the progress made on a quantum dot platform in meeting these requirements.

id: 1210.1272
title: Detection loophole attacks on semi-device-independent quantum and classical protocols
authors: Michele Dall'Arno, Elsa Passaro, Rodrigo Gallego, Marcin Pawlowski, Antonio Acin
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 15, 0037 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1272
abstract: Semi-device-independent quantum protocols realize information tasks - e.g. secure key distribution, random access coding, and randomness generation - in a scenario where no assumption on the internal working of the devices used in the protocol is made, except their dimension. These protocols offer two main advantages: first, their implementation is often less demanding than fully-device-independent protocols. Second, they are more secure than their device-dependent counterparts. Their classical analogous is represented by random access codes, which provide a general framework for describing one-sided classical communication tasks. We discuss conditions under which detection inefficiencies can be exploited by a malicious provider to fake the performance of semi-device-independent quantum and classical protocols - and how to prevent it.

id: 1210.1282
title: Experimental quantum teleportation over a high-loss free-space channel
authors: Xiao-Song Ma, Sebastian Kropatschek, William Naylor, Thomas Scheidl, Johannes Kofler, Thomas Herbst, Anton Zeilinger, Rupert Ursin
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 21, pp. 23126-23137 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1282
abstract: We present a high-fidelity quantum teleportation experiment over a high-loss free-space channel between two laboratories. We teleported six states of three mutually unbiased bases and obtained an average state fidelity of 0.82(1), well beyond the classical limit of 2/3. With the obtained data, we tomographically reconstructed the process matrices of quantum teleportation. The free-space channel attenuation of 31 dB corresponds to the estimated attenuation regime for a down-link from a low-earth-orbit satellite to a ground station. We also discussed various important technical issues for future experiments, including the dark counts of single-photon detectors, coincidence-window width etc. Our experiment tested the limit of performing quantum teleportation with state-of-the-art resources. It is an important step towards future satellite-based quantum teleportation and paves the way for establishing a worldwide quantum communication network.

id: 1210.1290
title: Stronger Methods of Making Quantum Interactive Proofs Perfectly Complete
authors: Hirotada Kobayashi, Fran?ois Le Gall, Harumichi Nishimura
comments: 41 pages; v2: soundness parameters improved, correction of a minor error in Lemma 23, and removal of the sentences claiming that our techniques are quantumly nonrelativizing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1290
abstract: This paper presents stronger methods of achieving perfect completeness in quantum interactive proofs. First, it is proved that any problem in QMA has a two-message quantum interactive proof system of perfect completeness with constant soundness error, where the verifier has only to send a constant number of halves of EPR pairs. This in particular implies that the class QMA is necessarily included by the class QIP_1(2) of problems having two-message quantum interactive proofs of perfect completeness, which gives the first nontrivial upper bound for QMA in terms of quantum interactive proofs. It is also proved that any problem having an $m$-message quantum interactive proof system necessarily has an $(m+1)$-message quantum interactive proof system of perfect completeness. This improves the previous result due to Kitaev and Watrous, where the resulting system of perfect completeness requires $m+2$ messages if not using the parallelization result.

id: 1210.1296
title: Minimum Entangling Power is Close to Its Maximum
authors: Jianxin Chen, Zhengfeng Ji, David W Kribs, Bei Zeng
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1296
abstract: Given a quantum gate $U$ acting on a bipartite quantum system, its maximum (average, minimum) entangling power is the maximum (average, minimum) entanglement generation with respect to certain entanglement measure when the inputs are restricted to be product states. In this paper, we mainly focus on the 'weakest' one, i.e., the minimum entangling power, among all these entangling powers. We show that, by choosing von Neumann entropy of reduced density operator or Schmidt rank as entanglement measure, even the 'weakest' entangling power is generically very close to its maximal possible entanglement generation. In other words, maximum, average and minimum entangling powers are generically close. We then study minimum entangling power with respect to other Lipschitiz-continuous entanglement measures and generalize our results to multipartite quantum systems. As a straightforward application, a random quantum gate will almost surely be an intrinsically fault-tolerant entangling device that will always transform every low-entangled state to near-maximally entangled state.

id: 1210.1298
title: Complex Probability Measure and Aharonov's Weak Value
authors: Tatsuya Morita, Toshihiko Sasaki, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 7 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1298
abstract: We present a complex probability measure relevant for double (pairs of) states in quantum mechanics, as an extension of the standard probability measure for single states that underlies Born's statistical rule. When the double states are treated as the initial and final states of a quantum process, we find that Aharonov's weak value, which has acquired a renewed interest as a novel observable quantity inherent in the process, arises as an expectation value associated with the probability measure. Despite being complex, our measure admits the physical interpretation as mixed processes, i.e., an ensemble of processes superposed with classical probabilities.

id: 1210.1312
title: A Study of Teleportation and Super Dense Coding capacity in Remote Entanglement Distribution
authors: Sk Sazim, Indranil Chakrabarty
comments: 2 figures and 10 pages, Accepted for Publication in Eur. Phys. J. D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 67 174(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1312
abstract: In this work we consider a quantum network consisting of nodes and entangled states connecting the nodes. In evrey node there is a single player. The players at the intermediate nodes carry out measurements to produce an entangled state between the initial and final node. Here we address the problem that how much classical as well as quantum information can be sent from initial node to final node. In this context, we present strong theorems along with proosf, which state that how the teleportation capability of this remotely prepared state is linked up with the fidelities of teleportation of the resource states. Similarly, we analyze the super dense coding capacity of this remotely prepared state in terms of the capacities of the resource entangled states. However, we first obtain the relations involving the amount of entanglement of the resource states with the final state in terms of two different measures of entanglement namely concurrence and entanglement entropy. These relations are quite similar to the bounds obtained in reference \cite{Gour,Gour1}. These results involving the teleportation fidelities and super dense coding capacities have a tremendous future application in the context of determining the amount of quantum and classical information can be sent from a given node to a desired node in a quantum network (QNet).

id: 1210.1332
title: A general method for constructing unitary operations for protocols with collective detection and new QKD protocols against collective noise
authors: Wei Huang, Qiao-Yan Wen, Bin Liu, Fei Gao
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1332
abstract: Collective detection is an efficient eavesdropping detection strategy in which the detection is taken only once after the whole process of particle transmission. Such detection strategy not only improves the efficiencies of the protocols but also reduces the cost of realization as the users (except for center) only need to perform unitary operations in the whole communication. The unitary operations, which cannot be discriminated precisely, are of vital role in the multiparty quantum cryptographic protocols with collective detection (MQCPs-CD). However, constructing such operations is still a difficult point that exists in designing this kind of protocols. In this paper, we present a method for constructing the required operations for MQCPs-CD with different kinds of quantum states. It is a general method which is helpful for designing secure MQCPs-CD over different kinds of quantum channels. Utilizing this method, we first present two robust three-party quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols with collective detection over collective-dephasing noise channel and collective-rotation noise channel respectively. Then we also propose a robust three-party QKD protocol with collective detection which can resist all kinds of unitary collective noise. Compared with the precious MQCPs-CD, our protocols are the first ones which can not only resist channel noise, but also utilize collective detection strategy. At last, we prove the security of all the proposed protocols based on the theorems of quantum operation discrimination.

id: 1210.1338
title: No-go theorem and optimization of dynamical decoupling against noise with soft cutoff
authors: Zhen-Yu Wang, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042319 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1338
abstract: We study the performance of dynamical decoupling in suppressing decoherence caused by soft-cutoff Gaussian noise, using short-time expansion of the noise correlations and numerical optimization. For the noise with soft cutoff at high frequencies, there exists no dynamical decoupling scheme to eliminate the decoherence to arbitrary orders of the short time, regardless of the timing or pulse shaping of the control under the population conserving condition. We formulate the equations for optimizing pulse sequences that minimizes decoherence up to the highest possible order of the short time for the noise correlations with odd power terms in the short-time expansion. In particular, we show that the Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill sequence is optimal in short-time limit for the noise correlations with a linear order term in the time expansion.

id: 1210.1387
title: Simple performance evaluation of pulsed spontaneous parametric down-conversion sources for quantum communications
authors: Jean-Loup Smirr, Sylvain Guilbaud, Joe Ghalbouni, Robert Frey, Eleni Diamanti, Romain Alleaume, Isabelle Zaquine
comments: 
journal: Optics Express 19, p616 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1387
abstract: Fast and complete characterization of pulsed spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC) sources is important for applications in quantum information processing and communications. We propose a simple method to perform this task, which only requires measuring the counts on the two output channels and the coincidences between them, as well as modeling the filter used to reduce the source bandwidth. The proposed method is experimentally tested and used for a complete evaluation of SPDC sources (pair emission probability, total losses, and fidelity) of different bandwidths. This method can find applications in the setting up of SPDC sources and in the continuous verification of the quality of quantum communication links.

id: 1210.1403
title: Classical Light Sources with Tunable Temporal Coherence and Tailored Photon Number Distributions
authors: Deepak Pandey, Nandan Satapathy, Buti Suryabrahmam, J. Solomon Ivan, Hema Ramachandran
comments: 5 figures, 17 pages
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus (2014) 129:115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1403
abstract: We demonstrate the generation of classical incoherent light with electronic control over its temporal characteristics and photon number distribution. The tunability of the temporal coherence is shown, under both classical and quantum detection, through second order correlation ($G^2(\tau)$) measurements. The tailoring of desired classical photon number distributions is illustrated by creating two representative light sources - one thermal and the other a specific classical, non-Gaussian state. Such generation of classical light sources, quite different from existing natural light sources, is likely to be a useful resource in quantum information processing. As a particular application in this direction we outline how a non-Gaussian state generated in this manner may be mixed with an appropriate non-classical Gaussian state at a beamsplitter, to generate non-Gaussian entanglement.

id: 1210.1443
title: Radio-frequency magnetometry using a single electron spin
authors: M. Loretz, T. Rosskopf, C. L. Degen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 017602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1443
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a simple and robust protocol for the detection of weak radio-frequency magnetic fields using a single electron spin in diamond. Our method relies on spin locking, where the Rabi frequency of the spin is adjusted to match the MHz signal frequency. In a proof-of-principle experiment we detect a 7.5 MHz magnetic probe field of 40 nT amplitude with <10 kHz spectral resolution over a T_1-limited noise floor of 0.3 nT/rtHz. Rotating-frame magnetometry may provide a direct and sensitive route to high-resolution spectroscopy of nanoscale nuclear spin signals.

id: 1210.1463
title: Confounding Causality Principles: comment on R¨¦dei and san Pedro's "Distinguishing Causality Principles"
authors: Joe Henson
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. To appear in Stud. Hist. Philos. Mod. Phys. (some minor modifications made here)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1463
abstract: R\'edei and san Pedro discuss my "Comparing Causality Principles," their main aim being to distinguish reasonable weakened versions of two causality principles presented there, "SO1" and "SO2". They also argue that the proof that SO1 implies SO2 contains a flaw. Here, a reply is made to a number of points raised in their paper. It is argued that the "intuition" that SO1 should be stronger than SO2 is implicitly based on a false premise. It is pointed out that a similar weakening of SO2 was already considered in the original paper. The technical definition of the new conditions is shown to be defective. The argument against the stronger versions of SO1 and SO2 given by R\'edei and san Pedro is criticised. The flaw in the original proof is shown to be an easily corrected mistake in the wording. Finally, it is argued that some cited results on causal conditions in AQFT have little relevance to these issues, and are, in any case, highly problematic in themselves.

id: 1210.1503
title: Semiclassical expansion of the Slater sum for position dependent mass distributions in d dimensions
authors: K. Berkane, K. Bencheikh
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. B 44, 658 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1503
abstract: We consider hamiltonian systems with spatially varying effective mass and slowly varying local potential in d dimensions. The Slater sum is defined as the diagonal element of the Bloch propagator. We derive a gradient expansion of the Slater sum up to the second order. We will show that the derived analytical expression is valid for d=1,2,3 and 4. A numerical example is shown to highlight the effect of the spatially varying effective mass.

id: 1210.1514
title: Creating and detecting micro-macro photon-number entanglement by amplifying and de-amplifying a single-photon entangled state
authors: Roohollah Ghobadi, Alexander Lvovsky, Christoph Simon
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 170406 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1514
abstract: We propose a scheme for the observation of micro-macro entanglement in photon number based on amplifying and de-amplifying a single-photon entangled state in combination with homodyne quantum state tomography. The created micro-macro entangled state, which exists between the amplification and de-amplification steps, is a superposition of two components with mean photon numbers that differ by approximately a factor of three. We show that for reasonable values of photon loss it should be possible to detect micro-macro photon-number entanglement where the macro system has a mean number of one hundred photons or more.

id: 1210.1535
title: Shared Randomness and Quantum Communication in the Multi-Party Model
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky, Tsuyoshi Ito, Guoming Wang
comments: 14 pages; v2: improved presentation, corrected statement of Theorem 2.1, corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1535
abstract: We study shared randomness in the context of multi-party number-in-hand communication protocols in the simultaneous message passing model. We show that with three or more players, shared randomness exhibits new interesting properties that have no direct analogues in the two-party case. First, we demonstrate a hierarchy of modes of shared randomness, with the usual shared randomness where all parties access the same random string as the strongest form in the hierarchy. We show exponential separations between its levels, and some of our bounds may be of independent interest. For example, we show that the equality function can be solved by a protocol of constant length using the weakest form of shared randomness, which we call "XOR-shared randomness." Second, we show that quantum communication cannot replace shared randomness in the k-party case, where k >= 3 is any constant. We demonstrate a promise function GP_k that can be computed by a classical protocol of constant length when (the strongest form of) shared randomness is available, but any quantum protocol without shared randomness must send n^Omega(1) qubits to compute it. Moreover, the quantum complexity of GP_k remains n^Omega(1) even if the "second strongest" mode of shared randomness is available. While a somewhat similar separation was already known in the two-party case, in the multi-party case our statement is qualitatively stronger: * In the two-party case, only a relational communication problem with similar properties is known. * In the two-party case, the gap between the two complexities of a problem can be at most exponential, as it is known that 2^(O(c)) log n qubits can always replace shared randomness in any c-bit protocol. Our bounds imply that with quantum communication alone, in general, it is not possible to simulate efficiently even a three-bit three-party classical protocol that uses shared randomness.

id: 1210.1550
title: Quantum Fourier Transforms and the Complexity of Link Invariants for Quantum Doubles of Finite Groups
authors: Hari Krovi, Alexander Russell
comments: 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1550
abstract: Knot and link invariants naturally arise from any braided Hopf algebra. We consider the computational complexity of the invariants arising from an elementary family of finite-dimensional Hopf algebras: quantum doubles of finite groups (denoted D(G), for a group G). Regarding algorithms for these invariants, we develop quantum circuits for the quantum Fourier transform over D(G); in general, we show that when one can uniformly and efficiently carry out the quantum Fourier transform over the centralizers Z(g) of the elements of G, one can efficiently carry out the quantum Fourier transform over D(G). We apply these results to the symmetric groups to yield efficient circuits for the quantum Fourier transform over D(S_n). With such a Fourier transform, it is straightforward to obtain additive approximation algorithms for the related link invariant. Additionally, we show that certain D(G) invariants (such as D(A_n) invariants) are BPP-hard to additively approximate, SBP-hard to multiplicatively approximate, and #P-hard to exactly evaluate. Finally, we make partial progress on the question of simulating anyonic computation in groups uniformly as a function of the group size. In this direction, we provide efficient quantum circuits for the Clebsch-Gordan transform over D(G) for "fluxon" irreps, i.e., irreps of D(G) characterized by a conjugacy class of G. For general irreps, i.e., those which are associated with a conjugacy class of G and an irrep of a centralizer, we present an efficient implementation under certain conditions such as when there is an efficient Clebsch-Gordan transform over the centralizers. We remark that this also provides a simulation of certain anyonic models of quantum computation, even in circumstances where the group may have size exponential in the size of the circuit.

id: 1210.1556
title: Quantum steering with bound entanglement
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Daniel Cavalcanti
comments: This paper has been withdrawn due to an error in the calculation that invalidates the main result. We hope to come up with a proper solution soon
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1556
abstract: Quantum steering, loosely speaking the distribution of entanglement from an untrusted party, is a form of quantum nonlocality which is intermediate between entanglement and Bell nonlocality. Determining which states can be steered is important from a conceptual point of view, but also for applications, e.g. in quantum cryptography. Here we show that bound entanglement, although it represents the weakest form of entanglement, can nevertheless lead to quantum steering. This is done by noticing that steering inequalities can be derived from entropic uncertainty relations. Our result has implications on the connection between entanglement distillability and nonlocality, and shows that bound entangled states can be useful for information-theoretic tasks featuring an untrusted party.

id: 1210.1586
title: Quantum light generation on a silicon chip using waveguides and resonators
authors: Jun Rong Ong, Shayan Mookherjea
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1586
abstract: Integrated optical devices may replace bulk crystal or fiber based assemblies with a more compact and controllable photon pair and heralded single photon source and generate quantum light at telecommunications wavelengths. Here, we propose that a periodic waveguide consisting of a sequence of optical resonators may outperform conventional waveguides or single resonators and generate more than 1 Giga-pairs per second from a sub-millimeter-long room-temperature silicon device, pumped with only about 10 milliwatts of optical power. Furthermore, the spectral properties of such devices provide novel opportunities of wavelength-division multiplexed chip-scale quantum light sources.

id: 1210.1666
title: Geometric discord of quantum states of fermionic system in accelerated frame
authors: Jinho Chang, L. C. Kwek, Younghun Kwon
comments: References are added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1666
abstract: In this article, we investigate the geometric discord of quantum states of fermionic system in accelerated frame. It is shown by the method beyond the single-mode approximation, depending on the region considered, that the geometric discord for the entangled quantum states of fermionic system in accelerated frame can vanish or be retained at the infinite acceleration limit: it does not disappear when the quantum state of the particle(Alice)-particle(Bob in region I) case or the particle(Alice)-antiparticle(Bob in region II) is considered and it disappears when the particle(Alice)-antiparticle(Bob in region I) case or the particle(Alice)-particle(Bob in region II) one is considered.

id: 1210.1680
title: Quantum polarization characterization and tomography
authors: Jonas Soderholm, Gunnar Bjork, Andrei B.Klimov, Luis L. Sanchez-Soto, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 18 pages, 1 eps-color figures. To be published in New Journal of Physics (Focus Issue on Quantum Tomography)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1680
abstract: We present a complete polarization characterization of any quantum state of two orthogonal polarization modes, and give a systematic measurement procedure to collect the necessary data. Full characterization requires measurements of the photon number in both modes and linear optics. In the situation where only the photon-number difference can be determined, a limited but useful characterization is obtained. The characteristic Stokes moment profiles are given for several common quantum states.

id: 1210.1689
title: A New Quantum Data Processing Inequality
authors: Salman Beigi
comments: 12 pages, fixed an error in the statement of Theorem 2 (thanks to Dong Yang)
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 082202 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1689
abstract: Quantum data processing inequality bounds the set of bipartite states that can be generated by two far apart parties under local operations; Having access to a bipartite state as a resource, two parties cannot locally transform it to another bipartite state with a mutual information greater than that of the resource state. But due to the additivity of quantum mutual information under tensor product, the data processing inequality gives no bound when the parties are provided with arbitrary number of copies of the resource state. In this paper we introduce a measure of correlation on bipartite quantum states, called maximal correlation, that is not additive and gives the same number when computed for multiple copies. Then by proving a data processing inequality for this measure, we find a bound on the set of states that can be generated under local operations even when an arbitrary number of copies of the resource state is available.

id: 1210.1703
title: Application of a numerical renormalization group procedure to an elementary anharmonic oscillator
authors: Krzysztof Piotr W¨®jcik
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. B 44, 69 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1703
abstract: The canonical quantum Hamiltonian eigenvalue problem for an anharmonic oscillator with a Lagrangian L = \dot{\phi}^2/2 - m^2 \phi^2/2 - g m^3 \phi^4 is numerically solved in two ways. One of the ways uses a plain cutoff on the number of basis states and the other employs a renormalization group procedure. The latter yields superior results to the former because it allows one to calculate the effective Hamiltonians. Matrices of effective Hamiltonians are quite small in comparison to the initial cutoff but nevertheless yield accurate eigenvalues thanks to the fact that just eight of their highest-energy matrix elements are proper functions of the small effective cutoff. We explain how these cutoff-dependent matrix elements emerge from the structure of the Hamiltonian and the renormalization group recursion, and we show that such small number of cutoff-dependent terms is sufficient to renormalize any band-diagonal Hamiltonian.

id: 1210.1754
title: Nonlocality and Entanglement for Symmetric States
authors: Zizhu Wang, Damian Markham
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures. Added more physical perspectives including discussions about genuine nonlocality
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012104 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1754
abstract: In this paper, building on some recent progress combined with numerical techniques, we shed some new light on how the nonlocality of symmetric states is related to their entanglement properties and potential usefulness in quantum information processing. We use semidefinite programming techniques to devise a device independent classification of three four qubit states into two classes inequivalent under local unitaries and permutation of systems (LUP). We study nonlocal properties when the number of parties grows large for two important classes of symmetric states: the W states and the GHZ states, showing that they behave differently under the inequalities we consider. We also discuss the monogamy arising from the nonlocal correlations of symmetric states. We show that although monogamy in a strict sense is not guaranteed for all symmetric states, strict monogamy is achievable for all Dicke states when the number of parties goes to infinity, as shown by an inequality based on a recent work studying the nonlocality (and showing strict monogamy) of W states.

id: 1210.1760
title: Spin, angular momentum and spin-statistics for a relativistic quantum many body system
authors: Lawrence Horwitz
comments: 15 pages. Correction to Eq. (15) and references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1760
abstract: The adaptation of Wigner's induced representation for a relativistic quantum theory making possible the construction of wavepackets and admitting covariant expectation values for the coordinate operator x^\mu introduces a foliation on the Hilbert space of states. The spin-statistics relation for fermions and bosons implies the universality of the parametrization of orbits of the induced representation, implying that all particles within the identical particle sets transform under the same SU(2) subgroup of the Lorentz group, and therefore their spins and angular momentum states can be computed using the usual Clebsch-Gordon coefficients associated with angular momentum. Important consequences, such as entanglement for subsystems at unequal times, covariant statistical correlations in many body systems, and the construction of relativistic boson and fermion statistical ensembles, as well as implications for the foliation of the Fock space and for quantum field theory are discussed.

id: 1210.1770
title: Observables and Entanglement in the Two-Body System
authors: N. L. Harshman
comments: 5 pages, no figs. Contributed to conference proceedings for Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations 6 at Linnaeus University, June 11-14, 2012
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 1508 (2012) 386-390
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1770
abstract: Using the quantum two-body system as a familiar model, this talk will describe how entanglement can be used to select preferred observables for interrogating a physical system. The symmetries and dynamics of the quantum two-body system provide a backdrop for testing the relativity of entanglement with respect to observable-induced tensor product structures. We believe this exploration leads us to a general statement: the physically-meaningful observable subalgebras are the ones that minimize entanglement in typical states.

id: 1210.1782
title: Revisiting the hopes for scalable quantum computation
authors: M. I. Dyakonov
comments: 4 pages, title modified
journal: JETP Letters, v. 98, p. 514 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1782
abstract: The hopes for scalable quantum computing rely on the "threshold theorem": once the error per qubit per gate is below a certain value, the methods of quantum error correction allow indefinitely long quantum computations. The proof is based on a number of assumptions, which are supposed to be satisfied exactly, like axioms, e.g. zero undesired interactions between qubits, etc. However in the physical world no continuous quantity can be exactly zero, it can only be more or less small. Thus the "error per qubit per gate" threshold must be complemented by the required precision with which each assumption should be fulfilled. This issue was never addressed. In the absence of this crucial information, the prospects of scalable quantum computing remain uncertain.

id: 1210.1783
title: Efficient simulation scheme for a class of quantum optics experiments with non-negative Wigner representation
authors: Victor Veitch, Nathan Wiebe, Christopher Ferrie, Joseph Emerson
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 013037
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1783
abstract: We provide a scheme for efficient simulation of a broad class of quantum optics experiments. Our efficient simulation extends the continuous variable Gottesman-Knill theorem to a large class of non-Gaussian mixed states, thereby identifying that these non-Gaussian states are not an enabling resource for exponential quantum speed-up. Our results also provide an operationally motivated interpretation of negativity as non-classicality. We apply our scheme to the case of noisy single-photon-added-thermal-states to show that this class admits states with positive Wigner function but negative P -function that are not useful resource states for quantum computation.

id: 1210.1810
title: Fully device independent quantum key distribution
authors: Umesh Vazirani, Thomas Vidick
comments: 25 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 140501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1810
abstract: The laws of quantum mechanics allow unconditionally secure key distribution protocols. Nevertheless, security proofs of traditional quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols rely on a crucial assumption, the trustworthiness of the quantum devices used in the protocol. In device-independent QKD, even this last assumption is relaxed: the devices used in the protocol may have been adversarially prepared, and there is no a priori guarantee that they perform according to specification. Proving security in this setting had been a central open problem in quantum cryptography. We give the first device-independent proof of security of a protocol for quantum key distribution that guarantees the extraction of a linear amount of key even when the devices are subject to a constant rate of noise. Our only assumptions are that the laboratories in which each party holds his or her own device are spatially isolated, and that both devices, as well as the eavesdropper, are bound by the laws of quantum mechanics. All previous proofs of security relied either on the use of many independent pairs of devices, or on the absence of noise.

id: 1210.1842
title: A Scattering Approach to the Dynamical Casimir Effect
authors: Mohammad F. Maghrebi, Ramin Golestanian, Mehran Kardar
comments: References added
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 025016 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1842
abstract: We develop a unified scattering approach to dynamical Casimir problems which can be applied to both accelerating boundaries, as well as dispersive objects in relative motion. A general (trace) formula is derived for the radiation from accelerating boundaries. Applications are provided for objects with different shapes in various dimensions, and undergoing rotational or linear motion. Within this framework, photon generation is discussed in the context of a modulated optical mirror. For dispersive objects, we find general results solely in terms of the scattering matrix. Specifically, we discuss the vacuum friction on a rotating object, and the friction on an atom moving parallel to a surface.

id: 1210.1889
title: Entanglement properties of a two spin-one particle system under a Lorentz transformation
authors: Esteban Castro-Ruiz, Eduardo Nahmad-Achar
comments: 16 pp, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 052331 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1889
abstract: We analize the entanglement change, under a Lorentz transformation, of a system consisting of two spin-one particles, considering different partitions of the Hilbert space, which has spin and momentum degrees of freedom. We show that there exists a complete set of states of the spin subspace in which the entanglement change of any state in the set is zero for all partitions and all values of the Wigner angle. Moreover, these states only change by a global phase factor under the Lorentz boost. Within this basis, maximally entangled invariant states, interesting for quantum information purposes, are explicitly obtained. On the other hand, the entanglement in the particle- particle partition is Lorentz invariant, thus protecting the consistency of quantum correlations and teleportation results. We show how our results may be generalized to arbitrary spin.

id: 1210.1895
title: A class of highly entangled many-body states that can be efficiently simulated
authors: Glen Evenbly, Guifre Vidal
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 240502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1895
abstract: We describe a quantum circuit that produces a highly entangled state of N qubits from which one can efficiently compute expectation values of local observables. This construction yields a variational ansatz for quantum many-body states that can be regarded as a generalization of the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA), and to which we refer as the branching MERA. In a lattice system in D dimensions, the scaling of entanglement of a region of size L^D in the branching MERA is not subject to restrictions such as a boundary law L^{D-1}, but can be proportional to the size of the region, as we demonstrate numerically for D=1,2 dimensions.

id: 1210.1929
title: Measures of non-Gaussianity for one-mode field states
authors: Iulia Ghiu, Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: Submitted to Physica Scripta as a contribution to CEWQO, Sinaia, Romania, 2012
journal: Physica Scripta T153, art. 014028 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1929
abstract: We introduce and investigate a distance-type measure of non-Gaussianity based on the quantum fidelity. This new measure can readily be evaluated for all pure states and mixed states that are diagonal in the Fock basis. In particular, for an $M$-photon added thermal state, an analysis of the Bures degree of non-Gaussianity is made in comparison with two previous measures built with the Hilbert-Schmidt metric and the relative entropy. We obtain a compact analytic formula for the Hilbert-Schmidt non-Gaussianity measure and find a good consistency of the three examined measures.

id: 1210.1930
title: Optical vortex produced by Single Photon Subtraction from two mode squeezed state Produces Maximum Entanglement
authors: Abir Bandyopadhyay, Anindya Banerji, R. P. Singh
comments: 7 pages, including figs. Submitted to journal. Minor changes in version 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1930
abstract: In this article we report that the entanglement produced by single photon subtraction is maximum, by studying the entanglement of multi photon subtraction from two mode squeezed states. We argue that the single photon subtraction produces maximum entanglement as it is more non-classical in nature than many photon subtractions

id: 1210.1943
title: Quantum information causality
authors: Dami¨¢n Pital¨²a-Garc¨ªa
comments: 4 pages, plus 5 of supplemental material. Expanded discussion, minor changes and added references. To appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 210402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1943
abstract: How much information can a transmitted physical system fundamentally communicate? We introduce the principle of quantum information causality, which states the maximum amount of quantum information that a quantum system can communicate as a function of its dimension, independently of any previously shared quantum physical resources. We present a new quantum information task, whose success probability is upper bounded by the new principle, and show that an optimal strategy to perform it combines the quantum teleportation and superdense coding protocols with a task that has classical inputs.

id: 1210.1970
title: Violation of Entropic Leggett-Garg Inequality in Nuclear Spins
authors: Hemant Katiyar, Abhishek Shukla, Rama Koteswara Rao, T. S. Mahesh
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, 1 page supplementary
journal: Phys Rev A 87 052102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1970
abstract: We report an experimental study of recently formulated entropic Leggett-Garg inequality (ELGI) by Usha Devi et al. (arXiv: 1208.4491v2 (2012)). This inequality places a bound on the statistical measurement outcomes of dynamical observables describing a macrorealistic system. Such a bound is not necessarily obeyed by quantum systems, and therefore provides an important way to distinguish quantumness from classical behavior. Here we study ELGI using a two-qubit nuclear magnetic resonance system. To perform the noninvasive measurements required for the ELGI study, we prepare the system qubit in a maximally mixed state as well as use the `ideal negative result measurement' procedure with the help of an ancilla qubit. The experimental results show a clear violation of ELGI by over four standard deviations. These results agree with the predictions of quantum theory. The violation of ELGI is attributed to the fact that certain joint probabilities are not legitimate in the quantum scenario, in the sense they do not reproduce all the marginal probabilities. Using a three-qubit system, we experimentally demonstrate that three-time joint probabilities do not reproduce certain two-time marginal probabilities.

id: 1210.1977
title: A new information metric and a possible higher bound for a class of measurements in the Quantum Estimation Problem
authors: Demetris P.K. Ghikas, Fotios Oikonomou
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1977
abstract: Information metrics give lower bounds for the estimation of parameters. The Cencov-Morozova-Petz Theorem classifies the monotone quantum Fisher metrics. The optimum bound for the quantum estimation problem is offered by the metric which is obtained from the symmetric logarithmic derivative. To get a better bound, it means to go outside this family of metrics, and thus inevitably, to relax some general conditions. In the paper we defined logarithmic derivatives through a phase-space correspondence. This introduces a function which quantifies the deviation from the symmetric derivative. Using this function we have proved that there exist POVMs for which the new metric gives a higher bound from that of the symmetric derivative. The analysis was performed for the one qubit case.

id: 1210.1980
title: A State Distillation Protocol to Implement Arbitrary Single-qubit Rotations
authors: Guillaume Duclos-Cianci, Krysta M. Svore
comments: 10 pages, 18 figures, 5 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042325 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1980
abstract: An important task required to build a scalable, fault-tolerant quantum computer is to efficiently represent an arbitrary single-qubit rotation by fault-tolerant quantum operations. Traditionally, the method for decomposing a single-qubit unitary into a discrete set of gates is Solovay-Kitaev decomposition, which in practice produces a sequence of depth O(\log^c(1/\epsilon)), where c~3.97 is the state-of-the-art. The proven lower bound is c=1, however an efficient algorithm that saturates this bound is unknown. In this paper, we present an alternative to Solovay-Kitaev decomposition employing state distillation techniques which reduces c to between 1.12 and 2.27, depending on the setting. For a given single-qubit rotation, our protocol significantly lowers the length of the approximating sequence and the number of required resource states (ancillary qubits). In addition, our protocol is robust to noise in the resource states.

id: 1210.2015
title: Atomic and photonic entanglement concentration via photonic Faraday rotation
authors: Zhao-Hui Peng, Jian Zou, Xiao-Juan Liu, Yong-Jun Xiao, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 034305(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2015
abstract: We propose two alternative entanglement concentration protocols (ECPs) using the Faraday rotation of photonic polarization. Through the single-photon input-output process in cavity QED, it is shown that the maximally entangled atomic (photonic) state can be extracted from two partially entangled states. The distinct feature of our protocols is that we can concentrate both atomic and photonic entangled states via photonic Faraday rotation, and thus they may be universal and useful for entanglement concentration in the experiment. Furthermore, as photonic Faraday rotation works in low-$Q$ cavities and only involves virtual excitation of atoms, our ECPs are insensitive to both cavity decay and atomic spontaneous emission.

id: 1210.2119
title: Entanglement Reactivation in Separable Environments
authors: Stefano Pirandola
comments: REVTeX. 27 pages. Published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 113046 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2119
abstract: Combining two entanglement-breaking channels into a correlated-noise environment restores the distribution of entanglement. Surprisingly, this reactivation can be induced by the injection of separable correlations from the composite environment. In any dimension (finite or infinite), we can construct classically-correlated "twirling" environments which are entanglement-breaking in the transmission of single systems but entanglement-preserving when two systems are transmitted. Here entanglement is simply preserved by the existence of decoherence-free subspaces. Remarkably, even when such subspaces do not exist, a fraction of the input entanglement can still be distributed. This is found in separable Gaussian environments, where distillable entanglement is able to survive the two-mode transmission, despite being broken in any single-mode transmission by the strong thermal noise. In the Gaussian setting, entanglement restoration is a threshold process, occurring only after a critical amount of correlations has been injected. Such findings suggest new perspectives for distributing entanglement in realistic environments with extreme decoherence, identifying separable correlations and classical memory effects as physical resources for "breaking entanglement-breaking".

id: 1210.2155
title: Linear maps preserving separability of pure states
authors: Jinchuan Hou, Xiaofei Qi
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2155
abstract: Linear maps preserving pure states of a quantum system of any dimension are characterized. This is then used to establish a structure theorem for linear maps that preserve separable pure states in multipartite systems. As an application, a characterization of separable pure state preserving affine maps is obtained.

id: 1210.2201
title: Quantum Teleportation within a Quantum Network
authors: Hari Prakash, Ajay K Maurya, Manoj K Mishra
comments: 14 pages, 3 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2201
abstract: We consider the problem of teleporting an unknown information state within a quantum network by a sender, say, Alice to any given receiver out of several receivers, say, Bob(1), Bob(2), ...., Bob(n). For this task, we suggest two schemes using (n+1)-partite GHZ state as a quantum channel. The first scheme involves C-NOT operations on qubit of Bobs with the control as qubit of Alice, while the second scheme involves measurements in the Hadamard basis by Bobs on their qubits. We have generalized both schemes for quantum teleportation of arbitrary m-qubit information state within the quantum network. Further, we have proposed two experimental schemes for the generation of (n+1)-partite GHZ state using interaction between highly detuned \Lambda-type three-level atoms and optical coherent field. We also discuss the possible experimental imperfections like, atomic-radiative time, cavity damping time and atom-cavity interaction time.

id: 1210.2210
title: Interpretation of Feynman formalism of quantum mechanics in terms of probabilities of paths
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2210
abstract: Feynman path integrals formalism for non-relativistic quantum mechanics is revisited. A comparison is made with the cases of light progagation (Huygens principle) and Brownian motion. The difficulties for a physical model behind Feynman formalism are pointed out. It is proposed a reformulation where the transition probability from one space-time point to another one is the sum of probabilities of the possible paths. The Born approximation for scattering is derived within the formalism, which suggests an interpretation in terms of particles, without the need of Born assumption that the modulus squared of the wavefunction is a probability density.

id: 1210.2212
title: Quantum Discord and Entanglement in Quasi-Werner States Based on Bipartite Superposed Coherent States
authors: Ajay K Maurya, Manoj K Mishra, Hari Prakash
comments: 17 Pages, 6 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2212
abstract: Recently, the authors [arXiv quant-ph 1209.3706] studied quantum discord for Werner mixed states based on the four entangled coherent states, which are used for quantum teleportation of single qubit information encoded in superposed coherent state and compared it with entanglement of formation. In the present paper, we consider two more general bipartite superposed coherent states and get two quasi-Werner states. We study quantum discord and entanglement of formation for these states and compare them.

id: 1210.2223
title: Observer dependent entanglement
authors: Paul M. Alsing, Ivette Fuentes
comments: Ivette Fuentes previously published as Ivette Fuentes-Guridi and Ivette Fuentes-Schuller
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2223
abstract: Understanding the observer-dependent nature of quantum entanglement has been a central question in relativistic quantum information. In this paper we will review key results on relativistic entanglement in flat and curved spacetime and discuss recent work which shows that motion and gravity have observable effects on entanglement between localized systems.

id: 1210.2264
title: Scattering of coherent states on a single artificial atom
authors: B. Peropadre, J. Lindkvist, I.-C. Hoi, C.M. Wilson, J.J. Garcia-Ripoll, P. Delsing, G. Johansson
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 035009 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2264
abstract: In this work we theoretically analyze a circuit QED design where propagating quantum microwaves interact with a single artificial atom, a single Cooper pair box. In particular, we derive a master equation in the so-called transmon regime, including coherent drives. Inspired by recent experiments, we then apply the master equation to describe the dynamics in both a two-level and a three-level approximation of the atom. In the two-level case, we also discuss how to measure photon antibunching in the reflected field and how it is affected by finite temperature and finite detection bandwidth.

id: 1210.2281
title: Engineering arbitrary pure and mixed quantum states
authors: Alexander Pechen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042106 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2281
abstract: This work addresses a fundamental problem of controllability of open quantum systems, meaning the ability to steer arbitrary initial system density matrix into any final density matrix. We show that under certain general conditions open quantum systems are completely controllable and propose the first, to the best of our knowledge, deterministic method for a laboratory realization of such controllability which allows for a practical engineering of arbitrary pure and mixed quantum states. The method exploits manipulation by the system with a laser field and a tailored nonequilibrium and time-dependent state of the surrounding environment. As a physical example of the environment we consider incoherent light, where control is its spectral density. The method has two specifically important properties: it realizes the strongest possible degree of quantum state control --- complete density matrix controllability which is the ability to steer arbitrary pure and mixed initial states into any desired pure or mixed final state, and is "all-to-one", i.e. such that each particular control can transfer simultaneously all initial system states into one target state.

id: 1210.2300
title: Towards a complete, continuous, Wigner function for an ensemble of spins or qubits
authors: Derek Harland, M. J. Everitt, Kae Nemoto, T. Tilma, T. P. Spiller
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. If viewed in adobe reader all figures except Fig 2 are interactive. For the non-interactive figures corresponding to those of the published version of this work please see version one of this preprint (which is also a much smaller file)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062117 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2300
abstract: We present a new quasi-probability distribution function for ensembles of spin-half particles or qubits that has many properties in common with Wigner's original function for systems of continuous variables. We show that this function provides clear and intuitive graphical representation of a wide variety of states, including Fock states, spin-coherent states, squeezed states, superpositions and statistical mixtures. Unlike previous attempts to represent ensembles of spins/qubits, this distribution is capable of simultaneously representing several angular momentum shells.

id: 1210.2306
title: Bi-photon propagation control with optimized wavefront by means of Adaptive Optics
authors: M. Minozzi, S. Bonora, A. V. Sergienko, G. Vallone, P. Villoresi
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 38, 489 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2306
abstract: We present an efficient method to control the spatial modes of entangled photons produced through SPDC process. Bi-photon beam propagation is controlled by a deformable mirror, that shapes a 404nm CW diode laser pump interacting with a nonlinear BBO type-I crystal. Thanks to adaptive optical system, the propagation of 808nm SPDC light produced is optimized over a distance of 2m. The whole system optimization is carried out by a feedback between deformable mirror action and entangled photon coincidence counts. We also demonstrated the improvement of the two-photon coupling into single mode fibers.

id: 1210.2318
title: Thermal emission in the ultrastrong coupling regime
authors: A. Ridolfo, M. Leib, S. Savasta, M. J. Hartmann
comments: submitted to the proceedings of the CEWQO 2012 conference
journal: Physica Scripta 2013 (T153), 014053
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2318
abstract: We study thermal emission of a cavity quantum electrodynamic system in the ultrastrong-coupling regime where the atom-cavity coupling rate becomes comparable the cavity resonance frequency. In this regime, the standard descriptions of photodetection and dissipation fail. Following an approach that was recently put forward by Ridolfo et al.[arXiv:1206.0944], we are able to calculate the emission of systems with arbitrary strength of light matter interaction, by expressing the electric field operator in the cavity-emitter dressed basis. Here we present thermal photoluminescence spectra, calculated for given temperatures and for different couplings in particular for available circuit QED parameters.

id: 1210.2345
title: Achieving steady-state entanglement of remote micromechanical oscillators by cascaded cavity coupling
authors: Huatang Tan, L. F. Buchmann, H. Seok, Gaoxiang Li
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2345
abstract: In this paper, we propose a scheme for generating steady-state entanglement of remote micromechanical oscillators in unidirectionally-coupled cavities. For the system of two mechanical oscillators, we show that when two cavity modes in each cavity are driven at red- and blue-detuned sidebands, respectively, a stationary two-mode squeezed vacuum state of the two mechanical oscillators can be generated with the help of the cavity dissipation. The degree of squeezing is controllable by adjusting the relative strength of the pump lasers. Our calculations also show that the achieved mechanical entanglement is robust against thermal fluctuations of phononic environments. For the case of multiple mechanical oscillators, we find that the steady-state genuine multipartite entanglement can also be built up among the remote mechanical oscillators by the cavity dissipation. The present scheme does not require nonclassical light input or conditional quantum measurements, and it can be realized with current experimental technology.

id: 1210.2353
title: A Flea on Schroedinger's Cat
authors: Klaas Landsman, Robin Reuvers
comments: 31 pages, 18 color figures, minor revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2353
abstract: We propose a technical reformulation of the measurement problem of quantum mechanics, which is based on the postulate that the final state of a measurement is classical. Unlike the usual formulation (in which the post-measurement state is a unit vector in Hilbert space), our version actually opens the possibility of admitting a purely technical solution within the confines of conventional quantum theory (as opposed to solutions that either modify this theory, or introduce unusual and controversial interpretative rules and/or ontologies). To that effect, we recall a remarkable phenomenon in the theory of Schroedinger operators (discovered in 1981 by Jona-Lasinio et al), according to which the ground state of a symmetric double-well Hamiltonian becomes exponentially sensitive to tiny perturbations of the potential as h -> 0. We show that this instability emerges also from the textbook WKB approximation, extend it to time-dependent perturbations, and study the dynamical transition from the ground state of the double well to the perturbed ground state (in which the cat is typically either dead or alive, depending on the details of the perturbation). Numerical simulations show that adiabatically arising perturbations may (quite literally) cause the collapse of the wave-function in the classical limit. Thus, at least in the context of a simple mathematical model, we combine the technical and conceptual virtues of decoherence (which fails to solve the measurement problem but launches the key idea that perturbations may come from the environment) with those of dynamical collapse models a la GRW (which do solve the measurement problem but are ad hoc), without sharing their drawbacks: single measurement outcomes are obtained (instead of merely diagonal reduced density matrices), and no modification of quantum mechanics is needed.

id: 1210.2367
title: Spontaneous Conversion from Virtual to Real Photons in the Ultrastrong Coupling Regime
authors: R. Stassi, A. Ridolfo, O. Di Stefano, M. J. Hartmann, S. Savasta
comments: To appear on Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2367
abstract: We show that a spontaneous release of virtual photon pairs can occur in a quantum optical system in the ultrastrong coupling regime. In this regime, which is attracting interest both in semiconductor and superconducting systems, the light-matter coupling rate {\Omega}R becomes comparable to the bare resonance frequency of photons {\omega}0. In contrast to the dynamical Casimir effect and other pair creation mechanisms, this phenomenon does not require external forces or time dependent parameters in the Hamiltonian.

id: 1210.2384
title: Quantum circuits for amplification of Kerr nonlinearity via quadrature squeezing
authors: Monika Bartkowiak, Lian-Ao Wu, Adam Miranowicz
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47, 145501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2384
abstract: Phase shifts induced by the Kerr effect are usually very small at the single-photon level. We propose two circuits for enhancing the cross-Kerr phase shift by applying one- and two-mode quadrature squeezing operators. Our results are based on the vector coherent state theory and can be implemented by physical operations satisfying the commutation relations for generators of the generalized special unitary group SU(1,1). While the proposed methods could be useful for the realization of quantum optical entangling gates based on Kerr nonlinear media at the single-photon level, they also indicate a general alternative approach to enhance higher-order nonlinearities by applying lower-order nonlinear effects.

id: 1210.2390
title: Vaxjo Interpretation of Wave Function: 2012
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: To be published in conference proceedings, Quantum Theory:Reconsideration of Foundations-6, Vaxjo, June 2012, American Institute of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2390
abstract: We discuss the problem of interpretation of the wave function. The latest version of the V\"axj\"o interpretation is presented. It differs essentially from the original V\"axj\"o interpretation (2001). The main distinguishing feature of the present V\"axj\"o interpretation is the combination of realism on the subquantum level with nonobjectivity of quantum observables (i.e., impossibility to assign their values before measurements). Hence, realism is destroyed by detectors transforming continuous subquantum reality into discrete events, clicks of detectors. The V\"axj\"o interpretation-2012 is fundamentally contextual in the sense that the value of an observable depends on measurement context. This is contextuality in Bohr's sense. It is more general than Bell's contextuality based on joint measurements of compatible observables.

id: 1210.2477
title: Quantum statistical imaging of particles without restriction of the diffraction limit
authors: Jin-Ming Cui, Fang-Wen Sun, Xiang-Dong Chen, Zhao-Jun Gong, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110,153901 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2477
abstract: A practical quantum measurement method based on the quantum nature of anti-bunching photon emission has been developed to detect single particles without the restriction of the diffraction limit. By simultane- ously counting the single-photon and two-photon signals with fluorescence microscopy, the images of nearby Nitrogen-Vacancy centers in diamond at a distance of 8.5+/-2.4 nm have been successfully reconstructed. Also their axes information was optically obtained. This quantum statistical imaging technique, with a simple exper- imental setup, can also be easily generalized in the measuring and distinguishing of other physical properties with any overlapping, which shows high potential in future image and study of coupled quantum systems for quantum information techniques.

id: 1210.2583
title: Beyond the Goldenberg-Vaidman protocol: Secure and efficient quantum communication using arbitrary, orthogonal, multi-particle quantum states
authors: Chitra Shukla, Anirban Pathak, R. Srikanth
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: Int. J. Quant. Info., 10 (2012) 1241009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2583
abstract: It is shown that maximally efficient protocols for secure direct quantum communications can be constructed using any arbitrary orthogonal basis. This establishes that no set of quantum states (e.g. GHZ states, W states, Brown states or Cluster states) has an advantage over the others, barring the relative difficulty in physical implementation. The work provides a wide choice of states for experimental realization of direct secure quantum communication protocols. We have also shown that this protocol can be generalized to a completely orthogonal state based protocol of Goldenberg-Vaidman (GV) type. The security of these protocols essentially arises from duality and monogamy of entanglement. This stands in contrast to protocols that employ non-orthogonal states, like Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84), where the security essentially comes from non-commutativity in the observable algebra.

id: 1210.2630
title: Fractional Quantum Field Theory, Path Integral, and Stochastic Differential Equation for Strongly Interacting Many-Particle Systems
authors: H. Kleinert
comments: 
journal: EPL, 100 (2012) 10001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2630
abstract: While free and weakly interacting particles are well described by a a second-quantized nonlinear Schr\"odinger field, or relativistic versions of it, the fields of strongly interacting particles are governed by effective actions, whose quadratic terms are extremized by fractional wave equations. Their particle orbits perform universal L\'evy walks rather than Gaussian random walks with perturbations.

id: 1210.2632
title: Decoherence-free linear quantum subsystems
authors: Naoki Yamamoto
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. To appear in IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control
journal: IEEE Transaction on Automatic Control, 59-7, 1845, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2632
abstract: This paper provides a general theory for characterizing and constructing a decoherence-free (DF) subsystem for an infinite dimensional linear open quantum system. The main idea is that, based on the Heisenberg picture of the dynamics rather than the commonly-taken Schrodinger picture, the notions of controllability and observability in control theory are employed to characterize a DF subsystem. A particularly useful result is a general if and only if condition for a linear system to have a DF component; this condition is used to demonstrate how to actually construct a DF dynamics in some specific examples. It is also shown that, as in the finite dimensional case, we are able to do coherent manipulation and preservation of a state of a DF subsystem.

id: 1210.2683
title: Covariant Quantization of Lorentz-Violating Electromagnetism
authors: Michael A. Hohensee, David F. Phillips, Ronald L. Walsworth
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure. Standalone version of work included in the Ph.D. Thesis of M.A. Hohensee, (2009). Improved introductory outline, discussion of transverse mode couplings, and conclusion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2683
abstract: We present a consistent, generally covariant quantization of light for non-vacuum birefringent, Lorentz-symmetry breaking electrodynamics in the context of the Standard Model Extension. We find that the number of light quanta in the field is not frame independent, and that the interaction of the quantized field with matter is necessarily birefringent. We also show that the conventional Lorenz gauge condition used to restrict the photon-mode basis to solutions of the Maxwell equations must be weakened to consistently describe Lorentz symmetry violation.

id: 1210.2747
title: Experimental quantification of non-Gaussianity of phase-randomized coherent states
authors: Alessia Allevi, Stefano Olivares, Maria Bondani
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. Vol. 10, No. 8 (2012) 1241006 (9 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2747
abstract: We present the experimental investigation of the non-Gaussian nature of some mixtures of Fock states by reconstructing their Wigner function and exploiting two recently introduced measures of non-Gaussianity. In particular, we demonstrate the consistency between the different approaches and the monotonicity of the two measures for states belonging to the class of phase randomized coherent states. Moreover, we prove that the exact behavior of one measure with respect to the other depends on the states under investigation and devise possible criteria to discriminate which measure is more useful for the characterization of the states in realistic applications.

id: 1210.2804
title: On the Foundations of Quantum Key Distribution - Reply to Renner and Beyond
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: This is a slightly revised version of arXiv:1210.2804v1 and is identical to v2. It is going to appear in Quantum ICT Research Institute Bulletin of Tamagawa University, vol.3, no-1,p.1, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2804
abstract: In a recent note (arXiv:1209.2423) Renner claims that the criticisms of Hirota and Yuen on the security foundation of quantum key distribution arose from a logical mistake. In this paper it is shown that Renner misrepresents the claims of Yuen and also Hirota while adopting one main theorem of Yuen in lieu of his own previous error. This leads to his incoherent position which ignores quantitative security criterion levels that undermine the current security claims, a main point of the Yuen and Hirota criticisms. This security criterion issue has never been properly addressed in the literature and is here fully discussed, as are several common misconceptions on QKD security. Other foundational issues are touched upon to bring out further the present precarious state of quantum key distribution security proofs.

id: 1210.2812
title: Algebraic Geometry of Matrix Product States
authors: Andrew Critch, Jason Morton
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 10 (2014), 095, 10 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2812
abstract: We quantify the representational power of matrix product states (MPS) for entangled qubit systems by giving polynomial expressions in a pure quantum state's amplitudes which hold if and only if the state is a translation invariant matrix product state or a limit of such states. For systems with few qubits, we give these equations explicitly, considering both periodic and open boundary conditions. Using the classical theory of trace varieties and trace algebras, we explain the relationship between MPS and hidden Markov models and exploit this relationship to derive useful parameterizations of MPS. We make four conjectures on the identifiability of MPS parameters.

id: 1210.2820
title: Deutsch's algorithm with topological charges of optical vortices via non-degenerate four-wave mixing
authors: Mingtao Cao, Liang Han, Ruifeng Liu, Hao Liu, Dong Wei, Pei Zhang, Yu Zhou, Wenge Guo, Shougang Zhang, Hong Gao, Fuli Li
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express 20, 24263-24271 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2820
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement the Deutsch's algorithm through non-degenerate four-wave mixing process. By employing photon topological charges of optical vortices, we demonstrate the ability to realize the necessary four logic gates for all balanced and constant functions. We also analyze the feasibility of the proposed scheme on the single photon level.

id: 1210.2828
title: Macroscopic entanglement between wave-packets at finite temperature
authors: Ana M. Martins
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2828
abstract: We investigate entanglement between collective operators of two wave-packets of finite spectral bandwidth, in two different approximations of the Multimode Parametric-Down Conversion (MPDC) process: the pairwise and the one-to-all interaction patterns. For collective operators we choose the macroscopic amplitudes of each wave-packet defined by the Fourier Transform of their microscopic mode amplitudes. This approach intends, to respond to realistic experimental conditions, where measurements apparatuses may not resolve single microscopic mode amplitudes but rather the collective amplitude of the wave-packets. To quantify the bipartite macroscopic entanglement we use the logarithmic negativity. We relate the time dependent degree of macroscopic entanglement with the complexity (number of modes and interaction pattern) and the temperature of the system. Our results show that the macroscopic entanglement increases linearly with the number of micro-modes in the case of the one-to-all interaction, while in the pairwise interaction it is constant. Moreover, in the one-to-all} pattern the birth time of entanglement and the critical temperature decrease with increasing the number of micro-modes. We draw the graphs associated with the two interaction patterns and related the degree of collective entanglement with the connectivity and the index of each vertex (mode) of the graph. We conclude that quantum information and computation tasks may be achieved more efficiently by manipulating appropriated collective operators in some macroscopic systems, then by using their microscopic counterparts.

id: 1210.2845
title: Structure of minimum-error quantum state discrimination
authors: Joonwoo Bae
comments: 35 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 15 073037 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2845
abstract: Distinguishing different quantum states is a fundamental task having practical applications for information processing. Despite the efforts devoted so far, however, strategies for optimal discrimination are known only for specific examples. We here consider the problem of minimum-error quantum state discrimination where the average error is attempted to be minimized. We show the general structure of minimum-error state discrimination as well as useful properties to derive analytic solutions. Based on the general structure, we present a geometric formulation of the problem, which can be applied to cases where quantum state geometry is clear. We also introduce equivalent classes of sets of quantum states in terms of minimum-error discrimination: sets of quantum states in an equivalence class share the same guessing probability. In particular, for qubit states where the state geometry is found with the Bloch sphere, we illustrate that for an arbitrary set of qubit states, the minimum-error state discrimination with equal prior probabilities can be analytically solved, that is, optimal measurement and the guessing probability are explicitly obtained.

id: 1210.2856
title: Quantum Hyperdense Coding for Distributed Communications
authors: Sandor Imre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2856
abstract: Superdense coding proved that entanglement-assisted quantum communications can improve the data transmission rates compared to classical systems. It allows sending 2 classical bits between the parties in exchange of 1 quantum bit and a pre-shared entangled Bell pair. This paper introduces a new protocol which is intended for distributed communication. Using a pre-shared entangled Bell pair and 1 classical bit 2,5 classical bits can be transmitted in average. This means not only valuable increase in capacity but the two-way distributed operation opens new fields of investigation.

id: 1210.2860
title: Dissipation-Assisted Quantum Information Processing with Trapped Ions
authors: A. Bermudez, T. Schaetz, M. B. Plenio
comments: closer to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 110502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2860
abstract: We introduce a scheme to perform dissipation-assisted quantum information processing in ion traps considering realistic decoherence rates, for example, due to motional heating. By means of continuous sympathetic cooling, we overcome the trap heating, and show that the damped vibrational excitations can still be exploited to mediate coherent interactions as well as collective dissipative effects. We describe how to control their relative strength experimentally, allowing for protocols of coherent or dissipative generation of entanglement. This scheme can be scaled to larger ion registers for coherent or dissipative many-body quantum simulations.

id: 1210.2887
title: Environment Induced Time Arrow and the Closed Time Path method
authors: Janos Polonyi
comments: 10 pages, 1 figures, talk presented at DICE2012, Castiglioncello, September 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2887
abstract: It is shown in the framework of a harmonic system that the thermodynamical time arrow is induced by the environmental initial conditions in a manner similar to spontaneous symmetry breaking. The Closed Time Path formalism is introduced in classical mechanics to handle Green functions for initial condition problems by the action principle, in a systematic manner. The application of this scheme for quantum systems shows the common dynamical origin of the thermodynamical and the quantum time arrows. It is furthermore conjectured that the quantum-classical transition is strongly coupled.

id: 1210.2894
title: Zitterbewegung of neutral relativistic particles in static longitudinal fields
authors: Tihomir G. Tenev, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012126 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2894
abstract: Zitterbewegung of neutral relativistic particles propagating along a constant magnetic and/or electric field is studied. It is shown that spin Zitterbewegung, when superimposed on the Larmor precession frequency, leads to a beating pattern. The existence of a forbidden frequency of spin precession is predicted. Modifications of position and velocity Zitterbewegung due to lifted spin degeneracy manifested in the appearance of longitudinal and transversal Zitterbewegung, each with two Zitterbewegung frequencies and resulting beating patterns, are reported.

id: 1210.2920
title: Limits to multipartite entanglement generation with bosons and fermions
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, Appendix A is a review of existing literature, with material from PRL 101, 010503 (2008) [arxiv:0806.1882] and PRL 102, 030502 (2009). Shortened introduction, version accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022319 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2920
abstract: Many-photon interference in linear-optics setups can be exploited to generate and detect multipartite entanglement. Without recurring to any inter-particle interaction, many entangled states have been created experimentally, and a panoply of theoretical schemes for the generation of various classes of entangled states is available. Here, we present a unifying framework that accommodates the present experiments and theoretical protocols for the creation of multiparticle entanglement via interference. A general representation of the states that can be created is provided for bosons and fermions, for any particle number, and for any dimensionality of the entangled degree of freedom. Using the framework, we derive an upper bound on the generalized Schmidt number of the states that can be generated, and we establish bounds on the dimensionality of the manifold of these states. We show that - at the expense of a smaller success probability - more states can be created with bosons than with fermions, and give an intuitive interpretation of the state representation and of the established bounds in terms of superimposed many-particle paths.

id: 1210.2988
title: Simple explanation of the quantum violation of a fundamental inequality
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110 (2013) 060402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2988
abstract: We show that the maximum quantum violation of the Klyachko-Can-Binicioglu-Shumovsky (KCBS) inequality is exactly the maximum value satisfying the following principle: The sum of probabilities of pairwise exclusive events cannot exceed 1. We call this principle "global exclusivity," since its power shows up when it is applied to global events resulting from enlarged scenarios in which the events in the inequality are considered jointly with other events. We identify scenarios in which this principle singles out quantum contextuality, and show that a recent proof excluding nonlocal boxes follows from the maximum violation imposed by this principle to the KCBS inequality.

id: 1210.2989
title: Investigating the implementation of restricted sets of multiqubit operations on distant qubits: a communication complexity perspective
authors: Haozhen Situ, Daowen Qiu
comments: 10pages, and comments are welcome
journal: Quantum Information Processing, 2011, 10: 609-618
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2989
abstract: We propose a protocol for Alice to implement a multiqubit quantum operation from the restricted sets on distant qubits possessed by Bob, and then we investigate the communication complexity of the task in different communication scenarios. By comparing with the previous work, our protocol works without prior sharing of entanglement, and requires less communication resources than the previous protocol in the qubit-transmission scenario. Furthermore, we generalize our protocol to $d$-dimensional operations.

id: 1210.3003
title: Recovering the Period in Shor's Algorithm with Gauss' Algorithm for Lattice Basis Reduction
authors: Allison Koenecke, Pawel Wocjan
comments: corrected minor mistakes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3003
abstract: Shor's algorithm contains a classical post-processing part for which we aim to create an efficient, understandable method aside from continued fractions. Let r be an unknown positive integer. Assume that with some constant probability we obtain random positive integers of the form x=[ N k/r ] where [.] is either the floor or ceiling of the rational number, k is selected uniformly at random from {0,1,...,r-1}, and N is a parameter that can be chosen. The problem of recovering r from such samples occurs precisely in the classical post-processing part of Shor's algorithm. The quantum part (quantum phase estimation) makes it possible to obtain such samples where r is the order of some element a of the unit group of Z_n and n is the number to be factored. Shor showed that the continued fraction algorithm can be used to efficiently recover r, since if N>2r^2 then k/r appears in lowest terms as one of the convergents of x/N due to a standard result on continued fractions. We present here an alternative method for recovering r based on the Gauss algorithm for lattice basis reduction, allowing us to efficiently find the shortest nonzero vector of a lattice generated by two vectors. Our method is about as efficient as the method based on continued fractions, yet it is much easier to understand all the details of why it works.

id: 1210.3018
title: Local orthogonality as a multipartite principle for quantum correlations
authors: T. Fritz, A. B. Sainz, R. Augusiak, J. B. Brask, R. Chaves, A. Leverrier, A. Ac¨ªn
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures; v2 contains information processing interpretation; v3 is the published version
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2263 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3018
abstract: In recent years, the use of information principles to understand quantum correlations has been very successful. Unfortunately, all principles considered so far have a bipartite formulation, but intrinsically multipartite principles, yet to be discovered, are necessary for reproducing quantum correlations. Here, we introduce local orthogonality, an intrinsically multipartite principle stating that events involving different outcomes of the same local measurement must be exclusive, or orthogonal. We prove that it is equivalent to no-signaling in the bipartite scenario but more restrictive for more than two parties. By exploiting this non-equivalence, it is then demonstrated that some bipartite supra-quantum correlations do violate local orthogonality when distributed among several parties. Finally, we show how its multipartite character allows revealing the non-quantumness of correlations for which any bipartite principle fails. We believe that local orthogonality is a crucial ingredient for understanding no-signaling and quantum correlations.

id: 1210.3025
title: From interpretation of the three classical mechanics actions to the wave function in quantum mechanics
authors: Michel Gondran, Alexandre Gondran
comments: 14 pages, appear in Proceedings of Second International Conference on Theoritical Physics (Moscow, July 2012)
journal: Quantum Computers and Computing, vol.12,n{\deg}2,17-25 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3025
abstract: First, we show that there exists in classical mechanics three actions corresponding to different boundary conditions: two well-known actions, the Euler-Lagrange classical action S_cl(x,t;x_0), which links the initial position x_0 and its position x at time t, the Hamilton-Jacobi action S(x,t), which links a family of particles of initial action S_0(x) to their various positions x at time t, and a new action, the deterministic action S(x,t;x_0,v_0), which links a particle in initial position x_0 and initial velocity v_0 to its position x at time t. We study, in the semi-classical approximation, the convergence of the quantum density and the quantum action, solutions to the Madelung equations, when the Planck constant h tends to 0. We find two different solutions which depend on the initial density. In the first case, where the initial quantum density is a classical density, the quantum density and the quantum action converge to a classical action and a classical density which satisfy the statistical Hamilton-Jacobi equations. These are the equations of a set of classical particles whose initial positions are known only by the initial density. In the second case where initial density converges to a Dirac density, the density converges to the Dirac function and the quantum action converges to a deterministic action. Therefore we introduce into classical mechanics non-discerned particles, which satisfy the statistical Hamilton-Jacobi-equations and explain the Gibbs paradox, and discerned particles, which satisfy the deterministic Hamilton-Jacobi equations. Finally, we propose an interpretation of the Schrodinger wave function that depends on the initial conditions (preparation). This double interpretation seems to be the interpretation of Louis de Broglie's "double solution" idea.

id: 1210.3040
title: Higher entanglement and fidelity with a uniformly accelerated partner via non-orthogonal states
authors: G. A. White
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: G. A. White, Phys. Rev. A 86, 032340 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3040
abstract: We show that nonorthogonal states achieve a higher level of entanglement when one party undergoes uniform acceleration. We also show that in this regime non-orthogonal states achieve a higher fidelity for teleportation. A quantum field as observed by an observer confined to a Rindler wedge acts as an open system. When one traces over the field modes in the causally disconnected region of space time, one finds that, for a qubit derived from the modes of a scalar field, the effective state space of a qubit is deformed. In order to show this we numerically calculate the Bures angle between states as seen by an accelerating observer. We also derive the Bures metric of an effective qubit in the limit of low accelerations. In order to show that the deformation is not just a coordinate transform, we calculate the scalar curvature of the effective Bures metric. We see that the effective Bures metric loses its isotropic nature. Despite taking the limit of low accelerations, our results are also relevant to large gravitational fields.

id: 1210.3112
title: Quantum random walk in periodic potential on a line
authors: Min Li, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3112
abstract: We investigated the discrete-time quantum random walks on a line in periodic potential. The probability distribution with periodic potential is more complex compared to the normal quantum walks, and the standard deviation $\sigma$ has interesting behaviors for different period $q$ and parameter $\theta$. We studied the behavior of standard deviation with variation in walk steps, period, and $\theta$. The standard deviation increases approximately linearly with $\theta$ and decreases with $1/q$ for $\theta\in(0,\pi/4)$, and increases approximately linearly with $1/q$ for $\theta\in[\pi/4,\pi/2)$. When $q=2$, the standard deviation is lazy for $\theta\in[\pi/4+n\pi,3\pi/4+n\pi],n\in Z$.

id: 1210.3118
title: Average position in quantum walks with a U(2) coin
authors: Min Li, YOng-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3118
abstract: We investigated discrete-time quantum walks with an arbitary unitary coin. Here we discover that the average position $<x> =\max(<x> \sin(\alpha+\gamma)$, while the initial state is $1/\sqrt{2}(\mid0L>+i\mid0R>)$. We prove the result and get some symmetry properties of quantum walks with a U(2) coin with $\mid0L>$ and $\mid0R>$ as the initial state.

id: 1210.3125
title: Distinguishability, Ensemble Steering, and the No-Signaling Principle
authors: Joonwoo Bae
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2013, arXiv:1412.7917
journal: EPTCS 171, 2014, pp. 26-32
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3125
abstract: We consider a fundamental operational task, distinguishing systems in different states, in the framework of generalized probabilistic theories and provide a general formalism of minimum-error discrimination of states in convex optimization. With the formalism established, we show that the distinguishability is generally a global property assigned to the ensemble of given states rather than other details of a given state space or pairwise relations of given states. Then, we consider bipartite systems where ensemble steering is possible, and show that show that with two operational tasks, ensemble steering and the no-signaling condition, the distinguishability is tightly determined. The result is independent to the structure of the state space. This concludes that the distinguishability is generally determined by the compatibility between two tasks, ensemble steering on states and the non-signaling principle on probability distributions of outcomes.

id: 1210.3145
title: Experimental Demonstration of Adaptive Quantum State Estimation
authors: Ryo Okamoto, Minako Iefuji, Satoshi Oyama, Koichi Yamagata, Hiroshi Imai, Akio Fujiwara, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 5pages, 4figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 130404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3145
abstract: The first experimental demonstration of an adaptive quantum state estimation (AQSE) is reported. The strong consistency and asymptotic efficiency of AQSE have been mathematically proven [ A. Fujiwara J. Phys. A 39 12489 (2006)]. In this Letter, the angle of linear polarization of single photons, the phase parameter between the right and the left circularly polarization, is estimated using AQSE, and the strong consistency and asymptotic efficiency are experimentally verified. AQSE will provide a general useful method in both quantum information processing and metrology.

id: 1210.3153
title: Scattering and bound states of two polaritons in an array of coupled cavities
authors: Chuan-zhou Zhu, Shimpei Endo, Pascal Naidon, Peng Zhang
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3153
abstract: We develop an analytical approach for calculating the scattering and bound states of two polaritons in a one-dimensional (1D) infinite array of coupled cavities, with each cavity coupled to a two-level system (TLS). In particular, we find that in such a system a contact interaction between two polaritons is induced by the nonlinearity of the Jaynes-Cummigs Hamiltonian. Using our approach we solve the two-polariton problem with zero center-of-mass momentum, and find 1D resonances. Our results are relevant to the transport of two polaritons, and are helpful for the investigation of many-body physics in a dilute gas of polaritons in a 1D cavity array.

id: 1210.3179
title: The effect of a coupling field on the entanglement dynamics of a three-level atom
authors: Ali Mortezapour, Majid Abedi, Mohammad Mahmoudi, M R H Khajehpour
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures
journal: 2011 J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 085501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3179
abstract: The effect of a coupling laser field on the entanglement of a three-level quantum system and its spontaneous emission is investigated via reduced quantum entropy. We consider two schemes, the upper- and lower-level couplings. By calculating the degree of entanglement (DEM) for both systems, it is shown that the entanglement between atom and its spontaneous emission can be controlled by the coupling laser field. This field, however, affects the entanglement differently in the two schemes; it is only the lower-level coupling scheme that shows a nonzero steady state DEM which can be controlled by the intensity and detuning of the coupling laser field.

id: 1210.3181
title: Relative entropy and squashed entanglement
authors: Ke Li, Andreas Winter
comments: minor corrections
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 326(1):63-80, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3181
abstract: We are interested in the properties and relations of entanglement measures. Especially, we focus on the squashed entanglement and relative entropy of entanglement, as well as their analogues and variants. Our first result is a monogamy-like inequality involving the relative entropy of entanglement and its one-way LOCC variant. The proof is accomplished by exploring the properties of relative entropy in the context of hypothesis testing via one-way LOCC operations, and by making use of an argument resembling that by Piani on the faithfulness of regularized relative entropy of entanglement. Following this, we obtain a commensurate and faithful lower bound for squashed entanglement, in the form of one-way LOCC relative entropy of entanglement. This gives a strengthening to the strong subadditivity of von Neumann entropy. Our result improves the trace-distance-type bound derived in [Comm. Math. Phys., 306:805-830, 2011], where faithfulness of squashed entanglement was first proved. Applying Pinsker's inequality, we are able to recover the trace-distance-type bound, even with slightly better constant factor. However, the main improvement is that our new lower bound can be much larger than the old one and it is almost a genuine entanglement measure. We evaluate exactly the various relative entropy of entanglement under restricted measurement classes, for maximally entangled states. Then, by proving asymptotic continuity, we extend the exact evaluation to their regularized versions for all pure states. Finally, we consider comparisons and separations between some important entanglement measures and obtain several new results on these, too.

id: 1210.3201
title: Low temperature investigations of single silicon vacancy colour centres in diamond
authors: Elke Neu, Christian Hepp, Michael Hauschild, Stefan Gsell, Martin Fischer, Hadwig Sternschulte, Doris Steinmueller-Nethl, Matthias Schreck, Christoph Becher
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures, latest version accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 043005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3201
abstract: We study single silicon vacancy (SiV) centres in chemical vapour deposition (CVD) nanodiamonds on iridium as well as an ensemble of SiV centres in a high quality, low stress CVD diamond film by using temperature dependent luminescence spectroscopy in the temperature range 5-295 K. We investigate in detail the temperature dependent fine structure of the zero-phonon-line (ZPL) of the SiV centres. The ZPL transition is affected by inhomogeneous as well as temperature dependent homogeneous broadening and blue shifts by about 20 cm-1 upon cooling from room temperature to 5 K. We employ excitation power dependent g(2) measurements to explore the temperature dependent internal population dynamics of single SiV centres and infer almost temperature independent dynamics.

id: 1210.3206
title: Diabatic quantum gates
authors: P.J. Salas Peralta
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0411042 by other authors
journal: Revista Mexicana de Fisica 58 (2012) 428-437
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3206
abstract: At present, several models for quantum computation have been proposed. Adiabatic quantum computation scheme particularly offers this possibility and is based on a slow enough time evolution of the system, where no transitions take place. In this work, a new strategy for quantum computation is provided from the opposite point of view. The objective is to control the non-adiabatic transitions between some states in order to produce the desired exit states after the evolution. The model is introduced by means of an analogy between the adiabatic quantum computation and an inelastic atomic collision. By means of a simple two-state model, several quantum gates are reproduced, concluding the possibility of diabatic universal fault-tolerant quantum computation. Going a step further, a new quantum diabatic computation model is glimpsed, where a carefully chosen Hamiltonian could carry out a non-adiabatic transition between the initial and the sought final state.

id: 1210.3207
title: Quantum memories and error correction
authors: James R. Wootton
comments: Review article for Journal of Modern Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3207
abstract: Quantum states are inherently fragile, making their storage a major concern for many practical applications and experimental tests of quantum mechanics. The field of quantum memories is concerned with how this storage may be achieved, covering everything from the physical systems best suited to the task to the abstract methods that may be used to increase performance. This review concerns itself with the latter, giving an overview of error correction and self-correction, and how they may be used to achieve fault-tolerant quantum computation. The planar code is presented as a concrete example, both as a quantum memory and as a framework for quantum computation.

id: 1210.3212
title: Schmidt-like coherent mode decomposition and spatial intensity correlations of thermal light
authors: I.B.Bobrov, S.S.Straupe, E.V.Kovlakov, S.P.Kulik
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 073016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3212
abstract: We experimentally study the properties of coherent mode decomposition for intensity correlation function of quasi-thermal light. We use the technique of spatial mode selection developed for studying transverse entanglement of photon pairs, and show that it can be extended to characterize classical spatial correlations. Our results demonstrate the existence of a unique for a given thermal source basis of coherent modes, correlated in a way much resembling the Schmidt modes of spatially entangled photons.

id: 1210.3216
title: Is composite noise necessary for sudden death of entanglement?
authors: K.O. Yashodamma, Sudha
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; Version 3: Accepted for publication in the Results in Physics: Comments welcome
journal: Results in Physics 3 (2013) 41-45
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3216
abstract: The finite time disentanglement or entanglement sudden death, when only one part of the composite system is subjected to a single noise, is examined. While it is shown that entanglement sudden death can occur when a part of the entangled mixed state is subjected to either amplitude noise or phase noise, local action of either of them does not cause entanglement sudden death in pure entangled states. In contrast, depolarizing noise is shown to have an abilitiy to cause sudden death of entanglement even in pure entangled states, when only one part of the state is exposed to it. The result is illustrated through the action of different noisy environments individually on a single qubit of the so-called X class of states and an arbitrary two-qubit pure state.

id: 1210.3270
title: All joint von Neumann measurements on a quantum state admit a quasi-classical probability model
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3270
abstract: We prove that the Hilbert space description of all joint von Neumann measurements on a quantum state can be reproduced in terms of a single measure space ({\Omega}, F, {\mu}) with a normalized real-valued measure {\mu}, that is, in terms of a new general probability model, the quasi-classical probability model, developed in [Loubenets: J. Math. Phys. 53 (2012), 022201; J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012), 185306]. In a quasi-classical probability model for all von Neumann measurements, a random variable models the corresponding quantum observable in all joint measurements and depends only on this quantum observable. This mathematical result sheds a new light on some important issues of quantum randomness discussed in the literature since the seminal article (1935) of Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen.

id: 1210.3274
title: Comment on "Optimal probe wave function of weak-value amplification"
authors: A. Di Lorenzo
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3274
abstract: First, a misconception about the spectrum of a confined particle is evidentiated. Then, the results are shown to be incorrect by means of a counter-example, an explicit preparation for the probe is given that yields an arbitrary amplification, and the source of the error is pointed out.

id: 1210.3279
title: On the Power of Non-Adaptive Learning Graphs
authors: Aleksandrs Belovs, Ansis Rosmanis
comments: 16 pages, 1.5 figures v2: the main result generalised for all certificate structures, a bug in the proof of Proposition 17 fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3279
abstract: We introduce a notion of the quantum query complexity of a certificate structure. This is a formalisation of a well-known observation that many quantum query algorithms only require the knowledge of the disposition of possible certificates in the input string, not the precise values therein. Next, we derive a dual formulation of the complexity of a non-adaptive learning graph, and use it to show that non-adaptive learning graphs are tight for all certificate structures. By this, we mean that there exists a function possessing the certificate structure and such that a learning graph gives an optimal quantum query algorithm for it. For a special case of certificate structures generated by certificates of bounded size, we construct a relatively general class of functions having this property. The construction is based on orthogonal arrays, and generalizes the quantum query lower bound for the $k$-sum problem derived recently in arXiv:1206.6528. Finally, we use these results to show that the learning graph for the triangle problem from arXiv:1210.1014 is almost optimal in these settings. This also gives a quantum query lower bound for the triangle-sum problem.

id: 1210.3293
title: Analysis of resonant population transfer in time-dependent elliptical quantum billiards
authors: Jakob Liss, Benno Liebchen, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 012912 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3293
abstract: A Fermi's Golden Rule for population transfer between instantaneous eigenstates of elliptical quantum billiards with oscillating boundaries is derived. Thereby, both the occurrence of the recently observed resonant population transfer between instantaneous eigenstates [F. Lenz et al. New J. Phys., {\bf 13}, 103019, 2011] and the empirical criterion stating that these transitions occur when the driving frequency matches the mean difference of the latter are explained. As a second main result a criterion judging which resonances are resolvable in a corresponding experiment of certain duration is provided. Our analysis is complemented by numerical simulations for three different driving laws. The corresponding resonance spectra are in agreement with the predictions of both criteria.

id: 1210.3300
title: Electromagnetic channel capacity for practical purposes
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. NB: the capacity bounds are constructed by generalizing to the multi-mode case the minimum-output entropy bounds of arXiv:quant-ph/0404005 [Phys. Rev. A 70, 032315 (2004)]
journal: Nature Phot. 7, 834 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3300
abstract: We give analytic upper bounds to the channel capacity C for transmission of classical information in electromagnetic channels (bosonic channels with thermal noise). In the practically relevant regimes of high noise and low transmissivity, by comparison with know lower bounds on C, our inequalities determine the value of the capacity up to corrections which are irrelevant for all practical purposes. Examples of such channels are radio communication, infrared or visible-wavelength free space channels. We also provide bounds to active channels that include amplification.

id: 1210.3316
title: Quantum limit for measurement of a weak classical force coupled to a noisy quantum-mechanical oscillator
authors: C. L. Latune, B. M. Escher, R. L. de Matos Filho, L. Davidovich
comments: Main article: 4.5 pages (including references), 2 figures; Supplemental Material: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3316
abstract: Precise measurements of tiny forces and displacements play an important role in science and technology. The precision of recent experiments, while beginning to reach the limits imposed by quantum mechanics, is necessarily spoiled by the unavoidable influence of noise. Here we obtain a quantum limit for the uncertainty in the estimation of a resonant classical force acting on a noisy quantum-mechanical oscillator. We determine the best initial state of the oscillator and the best measurement procedure, thus getting a rigorous and useful benchmark for experiments aiming to detect extremely small forces.

id: 1210.3388
title: Multilevel distillation of magic states for quantum computing
authors: Cody Jones
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3388
abstract: We develop a procedure for distilling magic states used in universal quantum computing that requires substantially fewer initial resources than prior schemes. Our distillation circuit is based on a family of concatenated quantum codes that possess a transversal Hadamard operation, enabling each of these codes to distill the eigenstate of the Hadamard operator. A crucial result of this design is that low-fidelity magic states can be consumed to purify other high-fidelity magic states to even higher fidelity, which we call "multilevel distillation." When distilling in the asymptotic regime of infidelity $\epsilon \rightarrow 0$ for each input magic state, the number of input magic states consumed on average to yield an output state with infidelity $O(\epsilon^{2^r})$ approaches $2^r+1$, which comes close to saturating the conjectured bound in [Phys. Rev. A 86, 052329]. We show numerically that there exist multilevel protocols such that the average number of magic states consumed to distill from error rate $\epsilon_{\mathrm{in}} = 0.01$ to $\epsilon_{\mathrm{out}}$ in the range $10^{-5}$ to $10^{-40}$ is about $14\log_{10}(1/\epsilon_{\mathrm{out}}) - 40$; the efficiency of multilevel distillation dominates all other reported protocols when distilling Hadamard magic states from initial infidelity 0.01 to any final infidelity below $10^{-7}$. These methods are an important advance for magic-state distillation circuits in high-performance quantum computing, and they provide insight into the limitations of nearly resource-optimal quantum error correction.

id: 1210.3418
title: Multipartite entanglement and Grover's search algorithm
authors: Ri Qu, Juan Wang, Zong-shang Li, Su-li Zhao, Yan-ru Bao, Xiao-chun Cao
comments: 11 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3418
abstract: We firstly investigate the multipartite entanglement features of the quantum states, including the iteration states achieved by repeated application of Grover iteration and the Oracle ones into which the above iteration states evolve by applying single Oracle operation, employed in Grover's search algorithm by means of the separable degree and the entanglement measure. Then we give the quantitative and qualitative descriptions of the entanglement dynamics in Grover's search algorithm. Our results show that for most instances (i) the separable degrees of these states and ranges of their maximum Schmidt numbers are invariable by following the dynamics of Grover's search algorithm; (ii) the dynamics of Grover's search algorithm is almost "filled" by the fully entangled states.

id: 1210.3419
title: Computing Hypergraph Ramsey Numbers by Using Quantum Circuit
authors: Ri Qu, Zong-shang Li, Juan Wang, Yan-ru Bao, Xiao-chun Cao
comments: 13pages, 5 figures
journal: Quantum Inf. Proc. 12, 2487 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3419
abstract: Gaitan and Clark [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 010501 (2012)] have recently shown a quantum algorithm for the computation of the Ramsey numbers using adiabatic quantum evolution. We present a quantum algorithm to compute the two-color Ramsey numbers for r-uniform hypergraphs by using the quantum counting circuit.

id: 1210.3424
title: A sufficient condition of violating the SPA conjecture
authors: Bang-Hai Wang, Dong-Yang Long
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3424
abstract: Based on the general form of entanglement witnesses constructed from separable states, we first show a sufficient condition of violating the structural physical approximation (SPA) conjecture [Phys. Rev. A 78, 062105 (2008)]. Then we discuss the SPA conjecture for decomposable entanglement witnesses. Moreover, we make geometric illustrations of the connection between entanglement witnesses and the sets of quantum states, separable states, and entangled states comparing with planes and vectors in Euclidean space.

id: 1210.3446
title: Braiding Interactions in Anyonic Quantum Walks
authors: Lauri J. Lehman, Vaclav Zatloukal, Jiannis K. Pachos, Gavin K. Brennen
comments: 13 pages, submitted to Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Theoretical Physics (ICTP 2012)
journal: Quantum Computers and Computing, 2012, 12 (1), pp. 51-62
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3446
abstract: The anyonic quantum walk is a dynamical model describing a single anyon propagating along a chain of stationary anyons and interacting via mutual braiding statistics. We review the recent results on the effects of braiding statistics in anyonic quantum walks in quasi-one dimensional ladder geometries. For anyons which correspond to spin-1/2 irreps of the quantum groups $SU(2)_k$, the non-Abelian species $(1<k<\infty)$ gives rise to entanglement between the walker and topological degrees of freedom which is quantified by quantum link invariants over the trajectories of the walk. The decoherence is strong enough to reduce the walk on the infinite ladder to classical like behaviour. We also present numerical results on mixing times of $SU(2)_2$ or Ising model anyon walks on cyclic graphs. Finally, the possible experimental simulation of the anyonic quantum walk in Fractional Quantum Hall systems is discussed.

id: 1210.3472
title: Quantum Heating of a nonlinear resonator probed by a superconducting qubit
authors: F. R. Ong, M. Boissonneault, F. Mallet, A. C. Doherty, A. Blais, D. Vion, D. Esteve, P. Bertet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3472
abstract: We measure the quantum fluctuations of a pumped nonlinear resonator, using a superconducting artificial atom as an in-situ probe. The qubit excitation spectrum gives access to the frequency and temperature of the intracavity field fluctuations. These are found to be in agreement with theoretical predictions; in particular we experimentally observe the phenomenon of quantum heating.

id: 1210.3473
title: Heralded generation of a micro-macro entangled state
authors: Ulrik L. Andersen, Jonas S. Neergaard-Nielsen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022337 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3473
abstract: Using different optical setups based on squeezed state and photon subtraction we show how optical entanglement between a macroscopic and a microscopic state - the so-called Schrodinger cat state or micro-macro state - can be generated. The entangled state is heralded and is thus produced a priori in contrast to previous proposals. We define the macroscopicity of the macroscopic part of the state as their mean distance in phase space and the success rate in discriminating them with homodyne detection, and subsequently, based on these measures we investigate the macroscopicity of different states. Furthermore, we show that the state can be used to map a microscopic qubit onto a macroscopic one thereby linking a qubit processor with a qumode processor.

id: 1210.3534
title: Harmonic mixing in two coupled qubits: quantum synchronization via ac drives
authors: S. E. Savel'ev, Z. Washington, A. M. Zagoskin, M. J. Everitt
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 065803 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3534
abstract: Simulating a system of two driven coupled qubits, we show that the time-averaged probability to find one driven qubit in its ground or excited state can be controlled by an ac drive in the second qubit. Moreover, off-diagonal elements of the density matrix responsible for quantum coherence can also be controlled via driving the second qubit, i.e., quantum coherence can be enhanced by appropriate choice of the bi-harmonic signal. Such a dynamic synchronization of two differently driven qubits has an analogy with harmonic mixing of Brownian particles forced by two signals through a substrate. Nevertheless, the quantum synchronization in two qubits occurs due to multiplicative coupling of signals in the qubits rather than via a nonlinear harmonic mixing for a classical nano-particle.

id: 1210.3554
title: Resummation of not summable series
authors: Zbigniew Ambrozinski, Jacek Wosiek
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3554
abstract: In this paper we present results of computations for the ground energy of weakly coupled double well potential in quantum mechanics. We give a numerical evidence for cancelation of imaginary contributions to energy coming from Borel resummation and multi-instanton terms. We also estimate several higher coefficients of the multi-instanton expansion which are not given in the literature.

id: 1210.3570
title: The rigged Hilbert space approach to the Gamow states
authors: Rafael de la Madrid
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 102113 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3570
abstract: We use the resonances of the spherical shell potential to present a thorough description of the Gamow (quasinormal) states within the rigged Hilbert space. It will be concluded that the natural setting for the Gamow states is a rigged Hilbert space whose test functions fall off at infinity faster than Gaussians.

id: 1210.3619
title: A short walk through quantum optomechanics
authors: P. Meystre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3619
abstract: This paper gives an brief review of the basic physics of quantum optomechanics and provides an overview of some of its recent developments and current areas of focus. It first outlines the basic theory of cavity optomechanical cooling and gives a brief status report of the experimental state-of-the-art. It then turns to the deep quantum regime of operation of optomechanical oscillators and cover selected aspects of quantum state preparation, control and characterization, including mechanical squeezing and pulsed optomechanics. This is followed by a discussion of the "bottom-up" approach that exploits ultracold atomic samples instead of nanoscale systems. It concludes with an outlook that concentrates largely on the functionalization of quantum optomechanical systems and their promise in metrology applications.

id: 1210.3622
title: Collectively Enhanced Interactions in Solid-state Spin Qubits
authors: Hendrik Weimer, Norman Y. Yao, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 067601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3622
abstract: We propose and analyze a technique to collectively enhance interactions between solid-state quantum registers composed from random networks of spin qubits. In such systems, disordered dipolar interactions generically result in localization. Here, we demonstrate the emergence of a single collective delocalized eigenmode as one turns on a transverse magnetic field. The interaction strength between this symmetric collective mode and a remote spin qubit is enhanced by square root of the number of spins participating in the delocalized mode. Mediated by such collective enhancement, long-range quantum logic between remote spin registers can occur at distances consistent with optical addressing. A specific implementation utilizing Nitrogen-Vacancy defects in diamond is discussed and the effects of decoherence are considered.

id: 1210.3637
title: Classical simulations of Abelian-group normalizer circuits with intermediate measurements
authors: Juan Bermejo-Vega, Maarten Van den Nest
comments: 26 pages+appendices. Title has changed in this second version. To appear in Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.14 No.3&4, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3637
abstract: Quantum normalizer circuits were recently introduced as generalizations of Clifford circuits [arXiv:1201.4867]: a normalizer circuit over a finite Abelian group $G$ is composed of the quantum Fourier transform (QFT) over G, together with gates which compute quadratic functions and automorphisms. In [arXiv:1201.4867] it was shown that every normalizer circuit can be simulated efficiently classically. This result provides a nontrivial example of a family of quantum circuits that cannot yield exponential speed-ups in spite of usage of the QFT, the latter being a central quantum algorithmic primitive. Here we extend the aforementioned result in several ways. Most importantly, we show that normalizer circuits supplemented with intermediate measurements can also be simulated efficiently classically, even when the computation proceeds adaptively. This yields a generalization of the Gottesman-Knill theorem (valid for n-qubit Clifford operations [quant-ph/9705052, quant-ph/9807006] to quantum circuits described by arbitrary finite Abelian groups. Moreover, our simulations are twofold: we present efficient classical algorithms to sample the measurement probability distribution of any adaptive-normalizer computation, as well as to compute the amplitudes of the state vector in every step of it. Finally we develop a generalization of the stabilizer formalism [quant-ph/9705052, quant-ph/9807006] relative to arbitrary finite Abelian groups: for example we characterize how to update stabilizers under generalized Pauli measurements and provide a normal form of the amplitudes of generalized stabilizer states using quadratic functions and subgroup cosets.

id: 1210.3642
title: Small distance expansion for radiative heat transfer between curved objects
authors: Vladyslav A. Golyk, Matthias Kr¨¹ger, Alexander P. McCauley, Mehran Kardar
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhysics Letters 101 (2013) 34002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3642
abstract: We develop a small distance expansion for the radiative heat transfer between gently curved objects, in terms of the ratio of distance to radius of curvature. A gradient expansion allows us to go beyond the lowest order proximity transfer approximation. The range of validity of such expansion depends on temperature as well as material properties. Generally, the expansion converges faster for the derivative of the transfer than for the transfer itself, which we use by introducing a near-field adjusted plot. For the case of a sphere and a plate, the logarithmic correction to the leading term has a very small prefactor for all materials investigated.

id: 1210.3654
title: Phase-controlled atom-photon entanglement in a three-level V-type atomic system via spontaneously generated coherence
authors: Mohammad Abazari, Ali Mortezapour, Mohammad Mahmoudi, Mostafa Sahrai
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: Entropy 2011, 13, 1541-1554
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3654
abstract: We investigate the dynamical behavior of the atom-photon entanglement in a V-type three-level quantum system using the atomic reduced entropy. It is shown that an atom and photons are entangled at the steady-state; however disentanglement can also be achieved in an especial condition. It is demonstrated that in the presence of quantum interference induced by spontaneous emission, the reduced entropy and the atom-photon entanglement are phase-dependent. Non-stationary solution is also obtained when the quantum interference due to the spontaneous emission is completely included.

id: 1210.3655
title: Reliable transport through a microfabricated X-junction surface-electrode ion trap
authors: Kenneth Wright, Jason M. Amini, Daniel L. Faircloth, Curtis Volin, S. Charles Doret, Harley Hayden, C.-S. Pai, David W. Landgren, Douglas Denison, Tyler Killian, Richart E. Slusher, Alexa W. Harter
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 033004 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3655
abstract: We report the design, fabrication, and characterization of a microfabricated surface-electrode ion trap that supports controlled transport through the two-dimensional intersection of linear trapping zones arranged in a ninety-degree cross. The trap is fabricated with very-large-scalable-integration (VLSI) techniques which are compatible with scaling to a larger quantum information processor. The shape of the radio-frequency (RF) electrodes is optimized with a genetic algorithm to minimize axial pseudopotential barriers and to minimize ion heating during transport. Seventy-eight independent DC control electrodes enable fine control of the trapping potentials. We demonstrate reliable ion transport between junction legs, trapping of ion chains with nearly-equal spacing in one of the trap's linear sections, and merging and splitting ions from these chains. Doppler-cooled ions survive more than 10^5 round-trip transits between junction legs without loss and more than sixty-five consecutive round trips without laser cooling.

id: 1210.3669
title: Implementation of Quantum Logic Gates Using Polar Molecules in Pendular States
authors: Jing Zhu, Sabre Kais, Qi Wei, Dudley Herschbach, Bretislav Friedrich
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 138, 024104 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3669
abstract: We present a systematic approach to implementation of basic quantum logic gates operating on polar molecules in pendular states as qubits for a quantum computer. A static electric field prevents quenching of the dipole moments by rotation, thereby creating the pendular states; also, the field gradient enables distinguishing among qubit sites. Multi-Target Optimal Control Theory (MTOCT) is used as a means of optimizing the initial-to-target transition probability via a laser field. We give detailed calculations for the SrO molecule, a favorite candidate for proposed quantum computers. Our simulation results indicate that NOT, Hadamard and CNOT gates can be realized with high fidelity for such pendular qubit states.

id: 1210.3683
title: The dynamics of entanglement in two-atom Tavis-Cummings model with non-degenerate two-photon transitions for tripartite entangled W-like states
authors: E.K. Bashkirov, M.S. Mastyugin
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3683
abstract: The influence of dipole-dipole interaction on the entanglement between two atoms with different initial entangled W-like states in Tavis-Cummings model with degenerate two-photon transitions has been investigated. The results show that the entanglement between two atoms can be increased by means of dipole-dipole interaction and for some initial states the entanglement sudden death effect can be weakened.

id: 1210.3685
title: The influence of dipole-dipole interaction on entanglement in nondegenerate two-photon Tavis-Cummings model with atomic coherence
authors: E.K. Bashkirov, M.S. Mastuygin
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3685
abstract: The entanglement of two dipole-coupled atoms with nondegenerate two-photon transitions interacting with two-mode field in lossless cavity has been investigated. It shows that the entanglement is dependent on the initial atomic states. The possibility of considerable growth of atomic entanglement due atomic coherence and dipole-dipole interaction is shown in the case of great mean values of thermal photons.

id: 1210.3749
title: Quantum local asymptotic normality based on a new quantum likelihood ratio
authors: Koichi Yamagata, Akio Fujiwara, Richard D. Gill
comments: Published in at this http URL the Annals of Statistics (this http URL) by the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (this http URL)
journal: Annals of Statistics 2013, Vol. 41, No. 4, 2197-2217
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Applications (stat.AP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3749
abstract: We develop a theory of local asymptotic normality in the quantum domain based on a novel quantum analogue of the log-likelihood ratio. This formulation is applicable to any quantum statistical model satisfying a mild smoothness condition. As an application, we prove the asymptotic achievability of the Holevo bound for the local shift parameter.

id: 1210.3779
title: Relation between squeezing of vacuum fluctuations, quantum entanglement and sub-shot noise in Raman scattering
authors: Anirban Pathak, Jaromir Krepelka, Jan Perina
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377 (2013) 2692-2701
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3779
abstract: A completely quantum description of Raman process is used to investigate the nonclassical properties of the modes in the stimulated, spontaneous and partially spontaneous Raman process. Both coherent scattering (where all the initial modes are coherent) and chaotic scattering (where initial phonon mode is chaotic and all the other modes are coherent) are studied. Nonclassical character of Raman process is observed by means of intermodal entanglement, single mode and intermodal squeezing of vacuum fluctuations, sub-shot noise and wave variances. Joint photon-phonon number and integrated-intensity distributions are then used to illustrate the observed nonclassicalities. Conditional and difference number distributions are also provided to illustrate the nonclassical character. The mutual relation between the obtained nonclassicalities and their variations dependent on phases, rescalled time and ratio of coupling constants are also reported.

id: 1210.3794
title: A New Protocol of Continuous-Variable Entanglement Distillation
authors: Shi Jin, Xian-Min Jin, Joshua Nunn, Animesh Datta, Ian Walmsley
comments: 5 pages,6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3794
abstract: We introduce a new protocol in continuous variable entanglement distillation that requires only linear temporal and constant physical or spatial resources.Compared with the existing protocols, our protocol uses atom-photon entanglement to substitute for atom-atom entanglement in existing protol, which will not only save the number of quantum memories, but also has the advantages in operation efficiency and temporal saving. The distillation can be realized by a fixed model of iterations, in which only three quantum memories and photon detectors are required.

id: 1210.3871
title: Linear and Nonlinear PT-symmetric Oligomers: A Dynamical Systems Analysis
authors: M. Duanmu, K. Li, R. L. Horne, P. G. Kevrekidis, N. Whitaker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3871
abstract: In the present work we focus on the cases of two-site (dimer) and three-site (trimer) configurations, i.e. oligomers, respecting the parity-time (PT) symmetry, i.e., with a spatially odd gain-loss profile. We examine different types of solutions of such configurations with linear and nonlinear gain/loss profiles. Solutions beyond the linear PT-symmetry critical point as well as solutions with asymmetric linearization eigenvalues are found in both the nonlinear dimer and trimer. The latter feature is absent in linear PT-symmetric trimers, while both of them are absent in linear PT symmetric dimers. Furthermore, nonlinear gain/loss terms enable the existence of both symmetric and asymmetric solution profiles (and of bifurcations between them), while only symmetric solutions are present in the linear PT-symmetric dimers and trimers. The linear stability analysis around the obtained solutions is discussed and their dynamical evolution is explored by means of direct numerical simulations. Finally, a brief discussion is also given of recent progress in the context of PT-symmetric quadrimers.

id: 1210.3929
title: Statistical fluctuation analysis for measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution
authors: Xiongfeng Ma, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Mohsen Razavi
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052305 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3929
abstract: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution with a finite number of decoy states is analyzed under finite-data-size assumption. By accounting for statistical fluctuations in parameter estimation, we investigate vacuum+weak- and vacuum+two-weak-decoy-state protocols. In each case, we find proper operation regimes, where the performance of our system is comparable to the asymptotic case for which the key size and the number of decoy states approach infinity. Our results show that practical implementations of this scheme can be both secure and efficient.

id: 1210.3940
title: Quantum Theory and The Symbolic Dynamics of Invariant Sets: Towards a Gravitational Theory of the Quantum
authors: T. N. Palmer
comments: Minor revisions, including some shortening, to first submission
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3940
abstract: A realistic measurement-free theory for the quantum physics of multiple qubits is proposed. This theory is based on a symbolic representation of a fractal state-space geometry which is invariant under the action of deterministic and locally causal dynamics. This symbolic representation is constructed from self-similar families of quaternionic operators. Using number-theoretic properties of the cosine function, the statistical properties of the symbolic representation of the invariant set are shown to be consistent with the contextual requirements of the Kochen-Specker theorem, are not constrained by Bell inequalities, and mirror the statistics of entangled qubits. These number-theoretic properties in turn reflect the sparseness of the invariant set in state space, and relate to the metaphysical notion of counterfactual incompleteness. Using the concept of probability, the complex Hilbert Space can be considered the completion of this symbolic representation into the state space continuum. As a result, it is proposed that the complex Hilbert Space should merely be considered a computational convenience in the light of the algorithmic intractability of the invariant set geometry, and consequently the superposed state should not be considered a fundamental aspect of physical theory. The physical basis for the proposed theory is relativistic gravity; for example the symbols used to describe the invariant set themselves label gravitationally distinct cosmological space-times. This implies that the very notion of a `quantum theory of gravity' may be profoundly misguided - erroneously putting the quantum cart before the gravitational horse. Here some elements of an alternative `gravitational theory of the quantum' are proposed, based on a deterministic and locally causal theory of gravity which extends general relativity by being geometric in both space-time and state space.

id: 1210.4022
title: Phase states and coherent states for generalized Weyl-Heisenberg algebras
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler, Mohammed Daoud
comments: 6 pages, The XXIXth International Colloquium on Group-Theoretical Methods in Physics, Tianjin : China (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4022
abstract: This paper is concerned with the construction of phase operators, phase states, vector phase states, and coherent states for a generalized Weyl-Heisenberg algebra. This polynomial algebra (that depends on real parameters) is briefly described. The various states are defined on a finite- or infinite-dimensional space depending on the parameters. This report constitutes an introduction to three papers published by the authors in J. Phys. A [43 (2010) 115303 and 45 (2012) 244036] and J. Math. Phys. [52 (2011) 082101]. See these three papers for the relevant references.

id: 1210.4039
title: Single-photon nonlinearities in two-mode optomechanics
authors: P. K¨®m¨¢r, S. D. Bennett, K. Stannigel, S. J. M. Habraken, P. Rabl, P. Zoller, M. D. Lukin
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013839 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4039
abstract: We present a detailed theoretical analysis of a weakly driven multimode optomechanical system, in which two optical modes are strongly and near-resonantly coupled to a single mechanical mode via a three-wave mixing interaction. We calculate one- and two-time intensity correlations of the two optical fields and compare them to analogous correlations in atom-cavity systems. Nonclassical photon correlations arise when the optomechanical coupling $g$ exceeds the cavity decay rate $\kappa$, and we discuss signatures of one- and two-photon resonances as well as quantum interference. We also find a long-lived correlation that decays slowly with the mechanical decay rate $\gamma$, reflecting the heralded preparation of a single phonon state after detection of a photon. Our results provide insight into the quantum regime of multimode optomechanics, with potential applications for quantum information processing with photons and phonons.

id: 1210.4042
title: Generating Nonclassical States from Classical Radiation by Subtraction Measurements
authors: Luke C. G. Govia, Emily J. Pritchett, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4042
abstract: We describe the creation of nonclassical states of microwave radiation via ideal dichotomic single photon detection, i.e., a detector that only indicates presence or absence of photons. Ideally, such a detector has a back action in the form of the subtraction operator. Using the non-linearity of this back action, it is possible to create a large family of nonclassical states of microwave radiation, including squeezed and multi-component cat states, starting from a coherent state. We discuss the applicability of this protocol to current experimental designs of Josephson Photomultipliers (JPMs).

id: 1210.4067
title: Optical memories and transduction of fields in double cavity optomechanical systems
authors: Kenan Qu, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4067
abstract: Using electromagnetically induced transparency we show how the opto-mechanical systems can be used both as memory elements as well as for the transduction of optical fields. We use a double cavity optomechanical system which facilitates such applications. By tuning the frequency of the second cavity one can produce output fields at a variety of frequencies. We present analytical results for the steady state behavior which is controlled by the power and the detuning of the field driving the second cavity.

id: 1210.4115
title: Wigner function for the orientation state
authors: Timo Fischer, Clemens Gneiting, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, v3: corresponds to published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 06004 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4115
abstract: We introduce a quantum phase space representation for the orientation state of extended quantum objects, using the Euler angles and their conjugate momenta as phase space coordinates. It exhibits the same properties as the standard Wigner function and thus provides an intuitive framework for discussing quantum effects and semiclassical approximations in the rotational motion. Examples illustrating the viability of this quasi-probability distribution include the phase space description of a molecular alignment effect.

id: 1210.4121
title: Caducity of idea about wave function collapse as well new views on Schrodinger's cat and quantum measurements
authors: Spiridon Dumitru
comments: 14pages, 5 Sections, 19 References
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4121
abstract: Investigated idea was actuated by the old opinion that a measurement of a quantum observable should be regarded a as a single deterministic sampling. But, according to the last decades studies, such observables are veritable random variables and their measurements must imply significant sets of statistical samplings. So one finds the indubitable caducity of the approached idea. Contiguously the respective finding allows to put into a new light the controversial questions like the Schrodinger's cat thought experiment or description of quantum measurements.

id: 1210.4124
title: Dependence of decoherence-assisted classicality on the ways a system is partitioned into subsystems
authors: Oleg Lychkovskiy
comments: Presented at DICE-2012 workshop under title "Resolution into subsystems, decoherence and thermalization". v2: Title changed, presentation improved, discussion extended, references added. Accepted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022112 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4124
abstract: Choosing a specific way of dividing a closed system into parts is a starting point for the decoherence program and for the quantum thermalization program. It is shown that one can always chose such way of partitioning that decoherence-assisted classicality does not emerge and thermalization does not occur. Implications of this result are discussed.

id: 1210.4128
title: Comment on "Quantum Time Crystals": a new paradigm or just another proposal of perpetuum mobile?
authors: Patrick Bruno
comments: 1 page
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 118901 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4128
abstract: A Comment on Frank Wilczek's paper "Quantum Time Crystals" (Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 160401 (2012); arXiv:1202.2539).

id: 1210.4142
title: Comparing the degrees of incompatibility inherent in probabilistic physical theories
authors: Paul Busch, Teiko Heinosaari, Jussi Schultz, Neil Stevens
comments: Minor corrections in version 2, several new results added in version 3. Version 4 contains more detail on some proofs and terminological improvements
journal: EPL, 103 (2013) 10002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4142
abstract: We introduce a new way of quantifying the degrees of incompatibility of two ob- servables in a probabilistic physical theory and, based on this, a global measure of the degree of incompatibility inherent in such theories, across all observable pairs. This opens up a novel and flexible way of comparing probabilistic theories with respect to the nonclassical feature of incompatibility, raising many interesting questions, some of which will be answered here. We show that quantum theory contains observables that are as incompatible as any probabilistic physical theory can have if arbitrary pairs of observables are considered. If one adopts a more refined measure of the degree of incompatibility, for instance, by restricting the comparison to binary observables, it turns out that there are probabilistic theories whose inherent degree of incompatibility is greater than that of quantum mechanics.

id: 1210.4151
title: Hybrid Mechanical Systems
authors: Philipp Treutlein, Claudiu Genes, Klemens Hammerer, Martino Poggio, Peter Rabl
comments: To cite this review, please refer to the published book chapter (see Journal-ref and DOI). This v2 corresponds to the published version
journal: P. Treutlein, C. Genes, K. Hammerer, M. Poggio, and P. Rabl, "Hybrid Mechanical Systems", in: "Cavity Optomechanics", ed. by M. Aspelmeyer, T. J. Kippenberg, and F. Marquardt (Springer, Berlin 2014) pp. 327-351
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4151
abstract: We discuss hybrid systems in which a mechanical oscillator is coupled to another (microscopic) quantum system, such as trapped atoms or ions, solid-state spin qubits, or superconducting devices. We summarize and compare different coupling schemes and describe first experimental implementations. Hybrid mechanical systems enable new approaches to quantum control of mechanical objects, precision sensing, and quantum information processing.

id: 1210.4186
title: Feedback control in quantum optics: an overview of experimental breakthroughs and areas of application
authors: Alessio Serafini
comments: Spotlight article; insults for omitted relevant literature received and returned in style
journal: ISRN Optics, 2012, 275016 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4186
abstract: We present a broad summary of research involving the application of quantum feedback control techniques to optical set-ups, from the early enhancement of optical amplitude squeezing to the recent stabilisation of photon number states in a microwave cavity, dwelling mostly on the latest experimental advances. Feedback control of quantum optical continuous variables, quantum non-demolition memories, feedback cooling, quantum state control, adaptive quantum measurements and coherent feedback strategies will all be touched upon in our discussion.

id: 1210.4205
title: Local approximation to the critical parameters of quantum wells
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez, Javier Garcia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4205
abstract: We calculate the critical parameters for some simple quantum wells by means of the Riccati-Pad\'{e} method. The original approach converges reasonably well for nonzero angular-momentum quantum number $l$ but rather too slowly for the s states. We therefore propose a simple modification that yields remarkably accurate results for the latter case. The rate of convergence of both methods increases with $l$ and decreases with the radial quantum number $n$. We compare RPM results with WKB ones for sufficiently large values of $l$. As illustrative examples we choose the one-dimensional and central-field Gaussian wells as well as the Yukawa potential. The application of perturbation theory by means of the RPM to a class of rational potentials yields interesting and baffling unphysical results.

id: 1210.4212
title: Direct observation of temporal coherence by weak projective measurements of photon arrival time
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Changliang Ren
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, detailed description of count rate evaluation in weak and strong limits has been added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062109 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4212
abstract: We show that a weak projective measurement of photon arrival time can be realized by controllable two photon interferences with photons from short-time reference pulses at a polarization beam splitter. The weak value of the projector on the arrival time defined by the reference pulse can be obtained from the coincidence rates conditioned by a specific output measurement. If the weak measurement is followed by a measurement of frequency, the coincidence counts reveal the complete temporal coherence of the single photon wavefunction. Significantly, the weak values of the input state can also be obtained at higher measurement strengths, so that correlations between weak measurements on separate photons can be observed and evaluated without difficulty. The method can thus be used to directly observe the non-classical statistics of time-energy entangled photons.

id: 1210.4234
title: Violation of Continuous Variable EPR Steering with Discrete Measurements
authors: James Schneeloch, P. Ben Dixon, Gregory A. Howland, Curtis J. Broadbent, John C. Howell
comments: 5 pages incl. references, 2 figures. See arXiv:1312.2604 for explicit derivation
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 130407 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4234
abstract: In this Letter, we derive an entropic Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) steering inequality for continuous variable (CV) systems using only experimentally measured discrete probability distributions and details of the measurement apparatus. We use this inequality to witness EPR steering between the positions and momenta of photon pairs generated in spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC). We examine the asymmetry between parties in this inequality, and show that this asymmetry can be used to reduce the technical requirements of experimental setups intended to demonstrate the EPR paradox. Furthermore, we develop a more stringent steering inequality that is symmetric between parties, and use it to show that the downconverted photon pairs also exhibit symmetric EPR steering.

id: 1210.4248
title: Einstein's Recoiling Slit Experiment, Complementarity and Uncertainty
authors: Tabish Qureshi, Radhika Vathsan
comments: 7 pages, closest to the published version
journal: Quanta 2, 58-65 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4248
abstract: We analyze Einstein's recoiling slit experiment and point out that the inevitable entanglement between the particle and the recoiling-slit was not part of Bohr's reply. We show that if this entanglement is taken into account, one can provided a simpler answer to Einstein. We also derive the Englert-Greenberger-Yasin duality relation from this entanglement. In addition, we show that the Englert-Greenberger-Yasin duality relation can also be thought of as a consequence of the sum uncertainty relation for certain observables of the recoiling slit. Thus, the uncertainty relations and entanglement are both an integral part of the which-way detection process.

id: 1210.4249
title: Checking the error correction strength of arbitrary surface code logical gates
authors: Thomas J. Milburn, Austin G. Fowler
comments: 12 pages, 31 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4249
abstract: Topologically quantum error corrected logical gates are complex. Chains of errors can form in space and time and diagonally in spacetime. It is highly nontrivial to determine whether a given logical gate is free of low weight combinations of errors leading to failure. We report a new tool Nestcheck capable of analyzing an arbitrary topological computation and determining the minimum number of errors required to cause failure.

id: 1210.4262
title: Dynamics and Hidden Variables
authors: Olivier Brunet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4262
abstract: We study the way the unitary evolution of spin 1/2 particules can be represented in a counterfactual definiteness setting. More precisely, by representing the state of such a particule by a triplet of values corresponding to the supposedly pre-existing outcomes of some measurements (those corresponding to the three Pauli matrices), we analyse the evolution of our representation when some unitary gates (namely, the Hadamard gate, the \pi/2 phase shifter and the controlled-not) are applied. Then, we describe in terms of triplets the creation of an EPR pair and discuss the possibility of having this representation comply with the predictions of quantum mechanics. Finally, we show that this is not possible unless one of the assumptions used to build our model is dropped.

id: 1210.4275
title: Single-photon transport and mechanical NOON state generation in microcavity optomechanics
authors: Xue-Xin Ren, Hao-Kun Li, Meng-Yuan Yan, Yong-Chun Liu, Yun-Feng Xiao, Qihuang Gong
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 033807 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4275
abstract: We investigate the single-photon transport in a single-mode optical fiber coupled to an optomechanical system in the single-photon strong-coupling regime. The single-photon transmission amplitude is analytically obtained with a real-space approach and the effects of thermal noises are studied via master-equation simulations. The results provide an explicit understanding of optomechanical interaction and offer a useful guide for manipulating single photons in optomechanical systems. Based on the theoretical framework, we further propose a scheme to generate the mechanical NOON states with arbitrary phonon numbers by measuring the sideband photons. The probability for generating the NOON state with five phonons is over 0.15.

id: 1210.4298
title: Atoms versus photons as carriers of quantum states
authors: Smail Bougouffa, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022317 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4298
abstract: The problem of the complete transfer of quantum states and entanglement in a four qubits system composed of two single-mode cavities and two two-level atoms is investigated. The transfer of single and double excitation states is discussed for two different coupling configurations between the qubits. In the first, the coupling is mediated by the atoms that simultaneously couple to the cavity modes. In the second configuration, each atom resides inside one of the cavities and the coupling between the cavities is mediated by the overlapping field modes. A proper choice of basis states allows to identify states that could be completely transferred between themselves. Simple expressions are derived for the conditions for the complete transfer of quantum states and entanglement. These conditions impose severe constraints on the evolution of the system in the form of constants of motion. The constrains on the evolution of the system imply that not all states can evolve in time, and we find that the evolution of the entire system can be confined into that occurring among two states only. Detailed analysis show that in the case where the interaction is mediated by the atoms, only symmetric superposition states can be completely and reversibly transferred between the atoms and the cavity modes. In the case where the interaction is mediated by the overlapping field modes, both symmetric and antisymmetric superposition states can be completely transferred. We also show that the system is capable to generate purely photonic NOON states, but only if the coupling is mediated by the atoms, and demonstrate that the ability to generate the NOON states relies on perfect transfer of an entanglement from the atoms to the cavity modes.

id: 1210.4300
title: Fine-grained uncertainty relation and biased non-local games in bipartite and tripartite systems
authors: Ansuman Dey, T. Pramanik, A. S. Majumdar
comments: 6 pages, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4300
abstract: The fine-grained uncertainty relation can be used to discriminate among classical, quantum and super-quantum correlations based on their strength of nonlocality, as has been shown for bipartite and tripartite systems with unbiased measurement settings. Here we consider the situation when two and three parties, respectively, choose settings with bias for playing certain non-local games. We show analytically that while the fine-grained uncertainty principle is still able to distinguish classical, quantum and super-quantum correlations for biased settings corresponding to certain ranges of the biasing parameters, the above-mentioned discrimination is not manifested for all biasing.

id: 1210.4311
title: Modulated pulses compensating classical noise
authors: Christopher Stihl, Benedikt Fauseweh, Stefano Pasini, G?tz S. Uhrig
comments: 22 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4311
abstract: We consider pulses of finite duration for coherent control in the presence of classical noise. We derive the corrections to ideal, instantaneous pulses for the case of general decoherence (spin-spin relaxation and spin-lattice relaxation) up to and including the third order in the duration \tau_p of the pulses. For pure dephasing (spin-spin relaxation only), we design \pi and \pi/2 pulses with amplitude and/or frequency modulation which resemble the ideal ones up to and including the second order in \tau_p. For completely general decoherence including spin-lattice relaxation the corrections are computed up to and including the second order in \tau_p as well. Frequency modulated pulses are determined which resemble the ideal ones. They are used to design a low-amplitude replacement for XY8 cycles. In comparison with pulses designed to compensate quantum noise less conditions have to be fulfilled. Consequently, we find that the classical pulses can be weaker and simpler than the corresponding pulses in the quantum case.

id: 1210.4323
title: Necessary and sufficient condition for quantum adiabatic evolution by unitary control fields
authors: Zhen-Yu Wang, Martin B. Plenio
comments: with new results added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4323
abstract: We decompose the quantum adiabatic evolution as the products of gauge invariant unitary operators and obtain the exact nonadiabatic correction in the adiabatic approximation. A necessary and sufficient condition that leads to adiabatic evolution with geometric phases is provided and we determine that in the adiabatic evolution, while the eigenstates are slowly varying, the eigenenergies and degeneracy of the Hamiltonian can change rapidly. We exemplify this result by the example of the adiabatic evolution driven by parametrized pulse sequences. For driving fields that are rotating slowly with the same average energy and evolution path, fast modulation fields can have smaller nonadiabatic errors than obtained under the traditional approach with a constant amplitude.

id: 1210.4353
title: Position-Based Quantum Cryptography and the Garden-Hose Game
authors: Florian Speelman
comments: MSc Thesis for University of Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 2011, 34 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4353
abstract: We study position-based cryptography in the quantum setting. We examine a class of protocols that only require the communication of a single qubit and 2n bits of classical information. To this end, we define a new model of communication complexity, the garden-hose model, which enables us to prove upper bounds on the number of EPR pairs needed to attack such schemes. This model furthermore opens up a way to link the security of position-based quantum cryptography to traditional complexity theory.

id: 1210.4359
title: A Monogamy-of-Entanglement Game With Applications to Device-Independent Quantum Cryptography
authors: Marco Tomamichel, Serge Fehr, J?drzej Kaniewski, Stephanie Wehner
comments: also presented at EuroCrypt 2013
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 103002 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4359
abstract: We consider a game in which two separate laboratories collaborate to prepare a quantum system and are then asked to guess the outcome of a measurement performed by a third party in a random basis on that system. Intuitively, by the uncertainty principle and the monogamy of entanglement, the probability that both players simultaneously succeed in guessing the outcome correctly is bounded. We are interested in the question of how the success probability scales when many such games are performed in parallel. We show that any strategy that maximizes the probability to win every game individually is also optimal for the parallel repetition of the game. Our result implies that the optimal guessing probability can be achieved without the use of entanglement. We explore several applications of this result. First, we show that it implies security for standard BB84 quantum key distribution when the receiving party uses fully untrusted measurement devices, i.e. we show that BB84 is one-sided device independent. Second, we show how our result can be used to prove security of a one-round position-verification scheme. Finally, we generalize a well-known uncertainty relation for the guessing probability to quantum side information.

id: 1210.4394
title: Ground state cooling is not possible given initial system-thermal bath factorization
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Dvira Segal, Paul Brumer
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 3128
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4394
abstract: In this paper we prove that a fundamental constraint on the cooling dynamic implies that it is impossible to cool, via a unitary system-bath quantum evolution, a system that is embedded in a thermal environment down to its ground state, if the initial state is a factorized product of system and bath states. The latter is a crucial but artificial assumption often included in many descriptions of system-bath dynamics. The analogous conclusion holds for 'cooling' to any pure state of the system.

id: 1210.4406
title: A Classical Framework for Nonlocality and Entanglement
authors: Gerhard Groessing, Siegfried Fussy, Johannes Mesa Pascasio, Herbert Schwabl
comments: Invited talk presented by G. Groessing at QTRF-6 in Vaxjo, Sweden, 10-15 June 2012. 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1508 (2012), 187-196
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4406
abstract: Based on our model of quantum systems as emerging from the coupled dynamics between oscillating "bouncers" and the space-filling zero-point field, a sub-quantum account of nonlocal correlations is given. This is explicitly done for the example of the "double two-slit" variant of two-particle interferometry. However, it is also shown that the entanglement in two-particle interferometry is only a natural consequence of the fact that already a "single" two-slit experiment can be described on a sub-quantum level with the aid of "entangling currents" of a generally nonlocal nature.

id: 1210.4409
title: Robust Self Testing of Unknown Quantum Systems into Any Entangled Two-Qubit States
authors: Tzyh Haur Yang, Miguel Navascues
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 050102(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4409
abstract: Self testing is a device independent approach to estimate the state and measurement operators, without the need to assume the dimension of our quantum system. In this paper, we show that one can self test black boxes into any pure entangled two-qubit state, by performing simple Bell type experiments. The approach makes use of only one family of two-inputs/two-outputs Bell inequalities. Furthermore, we outline the sufficient conditions for one to self test any dimensional bipartite entangled state. All these methods are robust to small but inevitable experimental errors.

id: 1210.4488
title: Qudit Quantum Computation in the Jaynes-Cummings Model
authors: Brian Mischuck, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4488
abstract: We have developed methods for performing qudit quantum computation in the Jaynes-Cummings model with the qudits residing in a finite subspace of individual harmonic oscillator modes, resonantly coupled to a spin-1/2 system. The first method determines analytical control sequences for the one- and two-qudit gates necessary for universal quantum computation by breaking down the desired unitary transformations into a series of state preparations implemented with the Law-Eberly scheme. The second method replaces some of the analytical pulse sequences with more rapid numerically optimized sequences. In our third approach, we directly optimize the evolution of the system, without making use of any analytic techniques. While limited to smaller dimensional qudits, the third approach finds pulse sequences which carry out the desired gates in a time which is much shorter than either of the other two approaches.

id: 1210.4501
title: High-dimensional quantum key distribution using dispersive optics
authors: Jacob Mower, Zheshen Zhang, Pierre Desjardins, Catherine Lee, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Dirk Englund
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. v2 contains details of security analysis previously left to Supplemental Information (not included in v1)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4501
abstract: We propose a high-dimensional quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol that employs temporal correlations of entangled photons. The security of the protocol relies on measurements by Alice and Bob in one of two conjugate bases, implemented using dispersive optics. We show that this dispersion-based approach is secure against general coherent attacks. The protocol is additionally compatible with standard fiber telecommunications channels and wavelength division multiplexers. We offer multiple implementations to enhance the transmission rate and describe a heralded qudit source that is easy to implement and enables secret-key generation at up to 100 Mbps at over 2 bits per photon.

id: 1210.4535
title: Real-Vector-Space Quantum Theory with a Universal Quantum Bit
authors: Antoniya Aleksandrova, Victoria Borish, William K. Wootters
comments: 58 pages; sections rewritten and figure added in v2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4535
abstract: We explore a model of the world based on real-vector-space quantum theory. In our model the familiar complex phase appearing in quantum states is replaced by a single binary object that we call the ubit, which is not localized and which can interact with any object in the world. Ordinary complex-vector-space quantum theory can be recovered from this model if we simply impose a certain restriction on the sets of allowed measurements and transformations (Stueckelberg's rule), but in this paper we try to obtain the standard theory, or a close approximation to it, without invoking such a restriction. We look particularly at the effective theory that applies to a subsystem when the ubit is interacting with a much larger environment. In a certain limit it turns out that the ubit-environment interaction has the effect of enforcing Stueckelberg's rule automatically, and we obtain a one-parameter family of effective theories--modifications of standard quantum theory--that all satisfy this rule. The one parameter is the ratio s/omega, where s quantifies the strength of the ubit's interaction with the rest of the world and omega is the ubit's rotation rate. We find that when this parameter is small but not zero, the effective theory is similar to standard quantum theory but is characterized by spontaneous decoherence of isolated systems.

id: 1210.4564
title: Quantum entanglement and spin control in silicon nanocrystal
authors: Vesna Berec
comments: 30 pages, 6 figures
journal: PLoS ONE 7(9): e45254 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4564
abstract: Selective coherence control and electrically mediated exchange coupling of single electron spin between triplet and singlet states using numerically derived optimal control of proton pulses is demonstrated. We obtained spatial confinement below size of the Bohr radius for proton spin chain FWHM. Precise manipulation of individual spins and polarization of electron spin states are analyzed via proton induced emission and controlled population of energy shells in pure 29Si nanocrystal. Entangled quantum states of channeled proton trajectories are mapped in transverse and angular phase space of 29Si axial channel alignment in order to avoid transversal excitations. Proton density and proton energy as impact parameter functions are characterized in single particle density matrix via discretization of diagonal and nearest off-diagonal elements. We combined high field and low densities (1 MeV/92 nm) to create inseparable quantum state by superimposing the hyperpolarizationed proton spin chain with electron spin of 29Si. Quantum discretization of density of states (DOS) was performed by the Monte Carlo simulation method using numerical solutions of proton equations of motion. Distribution of gaussian coherent states is obtained by continuous modulation of individual spin phase and amplitude. Obtained results allow precise engineering and faithful mapping of spin states. This would provide the effective quantum key distribution (QKD) and transmission of quantum information over remote distances between quantum memory centers for scalable quantum communication network. Furthermore, obtained results give insights in application of channeled protons subatomic microscopy as a complete versatile scanning-probe system capable of both quantum engineering of charged particle states and characterization of quantum states below diffraction limit linear and in-depth resolution.

id: 1210.4575
title: Macroscopic Hong-Ou-Mandel interference
authors: Timur Sh. Iskhakov, Kirill Yu. Spasibko, Maria V. Chekhova, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4575
abstract: We report on a Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) interference experiment for quantum states with photon numbers per mode as large as 10^6 generated via high-gain parametric down conversion (PDC). The standard technique of coincidence counting leads in this case to a dip with a very low visibility. By measuring, instead of coincidence rate, the variance of the photon-number difference, we observe a peak with 99.99% visibility. From the shape of the peak, one can infer information about the temporal mode structure of the PDC radiation, including the degree of frequency/time entanglement.

id: 1210.4583
title: Everything You Always Wanted to Know About LOCC (But Were Afraid to Ask)
authors: Eric Chitambar, Debbie Leung, Laura Mancinska, Maris Ozols, Andreas Winter
comments: This version is nearly the published form. Discussions on SLOCC and the LOCC-ball around the completely depolarizing map are added
journal: Commun. Math. Phys., vol. 328, no. 1, pp. 303-326 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4583
abstract: In this paper we study the subset of generalized quantum measurements on finite dimensional systems known as local operations and classical communication (LOCC). While LOCC emerges as the natural class of operations in many important quantum information tasks, its mathematical structure is complex and difficult to characterize. Here we provide a precise description of LOCC and related operational classes in terms of quantum instruments. Our formalism captures both finite round protocols as well as those that utilize an unbounded number of communication rounds. While the set of LOCC is not topologically closed, we show that finite round LOCC constitutes a compact subset of quantum operations. Additionally we show the existence of an open ball around the completely depolarizing map that consists entirely of LOCC implementable maps. Finally, we demonstrate a two-qubit map whose action can be approached arbitrarily close using LOCC, but nevertheless cannot be implemented perfectly.

id: 1210.4626
title: Time-optimal quantum computation
authors: Austin G. Fowler
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures, manuscript now describes how to achieve time-optimal quantum computation in any QEC code supporting fault-tolerant universal quantum computation that also permits transversal logical X and Z measurement
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4626
abstract: Given any quantum error correcting code permitting universal fault-tolerant quantum computation and transversal measurement of logical X and Z, we describe how to perform time-optimal quantum computation, meaning the execution of an arbitrary Clifford circuit followed by a layer of independent T gates and any necessary feedforward measurement determined corrective S gates all in the time of a single physical measurement. We assume fast classical processing and classical communication, and argue the reasonableness of this assumption. This enables fault-tolerant quantum computation to be performed orders of magnitude faster than previously thought possible, with the execution time independent of the error correction strength.

id: 1210.4647
title: Quantum adiabatic evolution using fixed-point quantum search
authors: Avatar Tulsi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4647
abstract: A quantum system can be evolved from the ground state of an initial Hamiltonian to that of a final Hamiltonian by adiabatically changing the Hamiltonian with respect to time. The system remains in the ground-state of time-changing Hamiltonian provided the change is slow enough. More precisely, if $g$ is the minimum energy gap between the ground state and other eigenstates of time-changing Hamiltonian then the evolution time must scale as the inverse square of $g$ for a successful evolution. Childs et al.~\cite{childs} proposed an alternative, where the system is kept in the ground state of a time-changing Hamiltonian by doing measurements at suitably small enough time intervals. Their scheme is successful only if the time scales as the inverse cube of $g$, and thus the time-scaling is inferior to the adiabatic evolution. Here, we propose another alternative which is essentially similar to the Childs' scheme but uses the concept of fixed-point quantum search (FPQS) algorithm~\cite{fixed1,fixed2} to recover the inverse-square time-scaling behaviour of adiabatic evolution. Our algorithm uses selective transformations of the unknown ground states and phase-estimation algorithm (PEA) is the main tool to approximate such selective transformations. Thus we demonstrate an important application of fixed-point quantum search which achieves monotonic convergence towards the desired final state.

id: 1210.4648
title: Optimal quantum searching to find a common element of two sets
authors: Avatar Tulsi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4648
abstract: Given two sets A and B and two oracles O(A) and O(B) that can identify the elements of these sets respectively, the goal is to find an element common to both sets using minimum number of oracle queries. Each application of either O(A) or O(B) is taken as a single oracle query. This is basically a search problem and a straightforward application of Grover algorithm can solve this problem but its performance is slow compared to the optimal one by a constant factor of 1.57. Here we present a variant of Grover algorithm which achieves the optimal performance in not too restrictive cases.

id: 1210.4685
title: The Photodetection Process under the Conditions of an Imperfect Measurement Device
authors: Alexander Trifanov, George Miroshnichenko
comments: 2 figures, 8 pages, reported at XI International Workshop on Quantum Optics, Volgograd, Russia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4685
abstract: The process of cavity mode quantum state photodetection subject to a nonideal measurement device is under consideration. A set of nonorthogonal probabilistic operator valued measures (POVMs) describing the photodetection process is suggested. The superoperators of conditional system evolution and their Kraus representations are obtained. Developed formalism is used to the quantum state reconstruction problem. We recalculate the probabilities of hypotheses about the initial state of cavity quantum mode in the case of unknown superposition of vacuum and single photon states.

id: 1210.4720
title: Comment on "Convergence of macrostates under reproducible processes" [Phys. Lett. A 374: 3715-3717 (2010)]
authors: Lin Zhang, Junde Wu, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX, published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377: 1794-1796 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4720
abstract: In this Letter, two counterexamples show that the superadditivity inequality of relative entropy is not true even for the full-ranked quantum states. Thus, an inequality of quantum channels and complementary channels is not also true. Finally, a conjecture of weak superadditivity inequality is presented.

id: 1210.4722
title: Finite blocklength converse bounds for quantum channels
authors: William Matthews, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures (v2: improved notation; one mistake fixed; results unchanged)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4722
abstract: We derive upper bounds on the rate of transmission of classical information over quantum channels by block codes with a given blocklength and error probability, for both entanglement-assisted and unassisted codes, in terms of a unifying framework of quantum hypothesis testing with restricted measurements. Our bounds do not depend on any special property of the channel (such as memorylessness) and generalise both a classical converse of Polyanskiy, Poor, and Verd\'{u} as well as a quantum converse of Renner and Wang, and have a number of desirable properties. In particular our bound on entanglement-assisted codes is a semidefinite program and for memoryless channels its large blocklength limit is the well known formula for entanglement-assisted capacity due to Bennett, Shor, Smolin and Thapliyal.

id: 1210.4760
title: Experimental simulation of anyonic fractional statistics with an NMR quantum information processor
authors: Guanru Feng, Guilu Long, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4760
abstract: Anyons have exotic statistical properties, fractional statistics, differing from Bosons and Fermions. They can be created as excitations of some Hamiltonian models. Here we present an experimental demonstration of anyonic fractional statistics by simulating a version of the Kitaev spin lattice model proposed by Han et al[Phys. Rev.Lett. 98, 150404 (2007)] using an NMR quantum information processor. We use a 7-qubit system to prepare a 6-qubit pseudopure state to implement the ground state preparation and realize anyonic manipulations, including creation, braiding and anyon fusion. A $\pi/2\times 2$ phase difference between the states with and without anyon braiding, which is equivalent to two successive particle exchanges, is observed. This is different from the $\pi\times 2$ and $2\pi \times 2$ phases for Fermions and Bosons after two successive particle exchanges, and is consistent with the fractional statistics of anyons.

id: 1210.4772
title: A Multi-path Interferometer with Ultracold Atoms Trapped in an Optical Lattice
authors: J. Chwedenczuk, F. Piazza, A. Smerzi
comments: 11 pages, 3 fugires
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4772
abstract: We study an ultra-cold gas of $N$ bosons trapped in a one dimensional $M$-site optical lattice perturbed by a spatially dependent potential $g\cdot x^j$, where the unknown coupling strength $g$ is to be estimated. We find that the measurement uncertainty is bounded by $\Delta g\propto\frac1{N (M^j-1)}$. For a typical case of a linear potential, the sensitivity improves as $M^{-1}$, which is a result of multiple interferences between the sites -- an advantage of multi-path interferometers over the two-mode setups. Next, we calculate the estimation sensitivity for a specific measurement where, after the action of the potential, the particles are released from the lattice and form an interference pattern. If the parameter is estimated by a least-square fit of the average density to the interference pattern, the sensitivity still scales like $M^{-1}$ for linear potentials and can be further improved by preparing a properly correlated initial state in the lattice.

id: 1210.4953
title: Equivalence between indirect controllability and complete controllability for quantum systems
authors: Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4953
abstract: We consider a control scheme where a quantum system S is put in contact with an auxiliary quantum system A and the control can affect A only, while S is the system of interest. The system S is then controlled indirectly through the interaction with A. Complete controllability of S +A means that every unitary state transformation for the system S +A can be achieved with this scheme. Indirect controllability means that every unitary transformation on the system S can be achieved. We prove in this paper, under appropriate conditions and definitions, that these two notions are equivalent in finite dimension. We use Lie algebraic methods to prove this result.

id: 1210.4994
title: Few-Qubit Magnetic Resonance Quantum Information Processors: Simulating Chemistry and Physics
authors: Ben Criger, Daniel K. Park, Jonathan Baugh
comments: 47 pages, 9 figures. To appear in Adv. Chem. Phys., special issue on Quantum Information and Computation for Chemistry
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4994
abstract: We review recent progress made in quantum information processing (QIP) which can be applied in the simulation of quantum systems and chemical phenomena. The review is focused on quantum algorithms which are useful for quantum simulation of chemistry and advances in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and electron spin resonance (ESR) QIP. Discussions also include a number of recent experiments demonstrating the current capabilities of the NMR QIP for quantum simulation and prospects for spin-based implementations of QIP.

id: 1210.5004
title: Decoherence from a spin-chain with three-site interaction
authors: Li-Jun Tian, Cai-Yun Zhang, Li-Guo Qin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5004
abstract: We investigate the time evolution of quantum discord and entanglement for two-qubit coupled to a spin chain with three-site interaction in the weak-coupling region. If the quantum system evolves from a Bell state, quantum correlations decay to zero in a very short time at the critical point of the environment. We found there exist some special interval of the three-site coupling strength in which the decay of quantum discord and entanglement can be delayed. When the qubits are initially prepared in a Bell diagonal state, the decay of entanglement is also delayed in the special interval, but the decay of quantum discord is enhanced. Besides, the sudden transition between classical and quantum decoherence is observed. we found the transition time can be lengthened at the special range of three-site interaction and shorten by degree of anisotropy.

id: 1210.5014
title: Dicke-Hepp-Lieb Superradiant Phase Transition and Independent Modes Model in Quantum Optomechanics
authors: Aranya B Bhattacherjee
comments: some critical errors have been identified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5014
abstract: We show that in the strong coupling linear regime, the dispersive opto-mechanical Hamiltonian system can undergo a Dicke-Hepp-Lieb superradiant phase transition with two critical points. The higher critical point is the usual second order Dicke superradiant phase transition while the lower critical point is a new effect showing similarity to the usual Dicke superradiance. We also show that the mechanical mode near its quantum ground state completely decouples from the optical mode and the optical mode shows similarity to the Bogoluibov like excitations.

id: 1210.5060
title: The "Majoranon" and how to realize it in a tabletop experiment
authors: Changsuk Noh, B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, Dimitris G. Angelakis
comments: Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 040102(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5060
abstract: We introduce the term Majoranon to describe particles that obey the Majorana equation, which are different from the Majorana fermions widely studied in various physical systems. A general procedure to simulate the corresponding Majoranon dynamics, based on a decomposition of the Majorana equation into two Dirac equations, is described in detail. It allows the simulation of the two-component chiral spinors, the building blocks of modern gauge theories, in the laboratory with current technology. Specifically, a Majoranon in one spatial dimension can be simulated with a single qubit plus a continuous degree of freedom, for example a single trapped ion. Interestingly, the dynamics of a Majoranon deviates most clearly from that of a Dirac particle in the rest frame, in which the continuous variable is redundant, making a possible laboratory implementation feasible with existing set ups.

id: 1210.5159
title: Chern and Majorana Modes of Quasiperiodic Systems
authors: Indubala I Satija, Gerardo G. Naumis
comments: Revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5159
abstract: New types of self-similar states are found in quasiperiodic systems characterized by topological invariants-- the Chern numbers. We show that the topology introduces a competing length in the self-similar band edge states transforming peaks into doublets of size equal to the Chern number. This length intertwines with the quasiperiodicity and introduces an intrinsic scale, producing Chern-beats and nested regions where the fractal structure becomes smooth. Cherns also influence the zero-energy mode, that for quasiperiodic systems which exhibit exponential localization, is related to the ghost of the Majorana; the delocalized state at the onset to topological transition. The Chern and the Majorana, two distinct types of topological edge modes, exist in quasiperiodic superconducting wires.

id: 1210.5188
title: Compact generation of easy-to-access continuous-variable cluster states
authors: I. Rigas, C. Gabriel, S. Berg-Johansen, A. Aiello, P. van Loock, U. L. Andersen, Ch. Marquardt, G. Leuchs
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5188
abstract: Cluster states are an essential component in one-way quantum computation protocols. We present novel schemes to generate addressable and scalable cluster states. Specifically, we exploit the entanglement contained in quadrature squeezed cylindrically polarized modes as the resource for our cluster state production. We carefully examine the properties of the obtained cluster states and quantify these. It is shown that these cluster states can be built through very compact designs. All modes are directly addressable, as needed for one-way quantum computation. Furthermore, we experimentally implement one of the proposed schemes and verify its feasibility by measuring the quantum correlations between the different nodes of the cluster state.

id: 1210.5190
title: Operator extension of strong subadditivity of entropy
authors: Isaac H. Kim
comments: 5 pages, minor changes
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 122204 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5190
abstract: We prove an operator inequality that extends strong subadditivity of entropy: after taking a trace, the operator inequality becomes the strong subadditivity of entropy.

id: 1210.5218
title: Optical read-out of the quantum motion of an array of atoms-based mechanical oscillators
authors: Thierry Botter, Daniel W. C. Brooks, Sydney Schreppler, Nathan Brahms, Dan M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, and supplemental information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5218
abstract: We create an ultracold-atoms-based cavity optomechanical system in which as many as six distinguishable mechanical oscillators are prepared, and optically detected, near their ground states of motion. We demonstrate that the motional state of one oscillator can be selectively addressed while preserving neighboring oscillators near their ground states to better than 95% per excitation quantum. We also show that our system offers nanometer-scale spatial resolution of each mechanical element via optomechanical imaging. This technique enables in-situ, parallel sensing of potential landscapes, a capability relevant to active research areas of atomic physics and force-field detection in optomechanics.

id: 1210.5256
title: Angular invariant quantum mechanics in arbitrary dimension
authors: Sergio Giardino
comments: 
journal: Rev. Bras. Ens. F\'{i}s. \bf{35}, 3, 3307 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5256
abstract: One dimensional quantum mechanics problems, namely the infinite potential well, the harmonic oscillator, the free particle, the Dirac delta potential, the finite well and the finite barrier are generalized for finite arbitrary dimension in a radially symmetric, or angular invariant, manner. This generalization enables the Schr\"{o}dinger equation solutions to be visualized for Bessel functions and Whittaker functions, and it also enables connections to multi-dimensional physics theories, like string theory.

id: 1210.5260
title: Universal quantum simulation with pre-threshold superconducting qubits: Single-excitation subspace method
authors: Michael R. Geller, John M. Martinis, Andrew T. Sornborger, Phillip C. Stancil, Emily J. Pritchett, Andrei Galiautdinov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5260
abstract: We propose a method for general-purpose quantum computation and simulation that is well suited for today's pre-threshold-fidelity superconducting qubits. This approach makes use of the $n$-dimensional single-excitation subspace (SES) of a system of $n$ tunably coupled qubits. It can be viewed as a nonscalable special case of the standard gate-based quantum computing model, but allows many operations in the unitary group SU($n$) to be implemented by a single application of the Hamiltonian. Our approach bypasses the need to decompose the evolution operator into elementary gates, making large, nontrivial computations possible without error correction. The method is especially well suited for universal quantum simulation, specifically simulation of the Schr\"odinger equation with a real but otherwise arbitrary $n \times n$ Hamiltonian. We argue that a 1000-qubit SES processor, which would require no known improvements in superconducting device technology and which could be built today, should be capable of achieving quantum speedup relative to a petaflop supercomputer. We speculate on the utility and practicality of such a universal quantum simulator.

id: 1210.5291
title: Non-Markovianity and Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH)-Bell inequality violation in quantum dissipative systems
authors: A. Thilagam, A. R. Usha Devi
comments: 15 pages, J. Chem. Physics (accepted)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5291
abstract: We examine the non-Markovian dynamics in a multipartite system of two initially correlated atomic qubits, each located in a single-mode leaky cavity and interacting with its own bosonic reservoir. We show the dominance of non-Markovian features, as quantified by the difference in fidelity of the evolved system with its density matrix at an earlier time, in three specific two-qubit partitions associated with the cavity-cavity and atom-reservoir density matrices within the same subsystem, and the cavity-reservoir reduced matrix across the two subsystems. The non-Markovianity in the cavity-cavity subsystem is seen to be optimized in the vicinity of the exceptional point. The CHSH-Bell inequality computed for various two-qubit partitions show that high non-locality present in a specific subsystem appears in conjunction with enhanced non-Markovian dynamics in adjacent subsystems. This is in contrast to the matching existence of non-locality and quantum correlations in regions spanned by time t and the cavity decay rate for select partitions. We discuss the applicability of these results to photosynthetic systems.

id: 1210.5326
title: Generalized rotating-wave approximation to biased qubit-oscillator systems
authors: Yu-Yu Zhang, Qing-Hu Chen, Yang Zhao
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 033827 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5326
abstract: The generalized rotating-wave approximation with counter-rotating interactions has been applied to a biased qubit-oscillator system. Analytical expressions are explicitly given for all eigenvalues and eigenstates. For a flux qubit coupled to superconducting oscillators, spectra calculated by our approach are in excellent agreement with experiment. Calculated energy levels for a variety of biases also agree well with those obtained via exact diagonalization for a wide range of coupling strengths. Dynamics of the qubit has also been examined, and results lend further support to the validity of the analytical approximation employed here. Our approach can be readily implemented and applied to superconducting qubit-oscillator experiments conducted currently and in the near future with a biased qubit and for all accessible coupling strengths.

id: 1210.5340
title: Entanglement dynamics for qubits dissipating into a common environment
authors: Laleh Memarzadeh, Stefano Mancini
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87, 032303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5340
abstract: We provide an analytical investigation of the entanglement dynamics for a system composed of an arbitrary number of qubits dissipating into a common environment. Specifically we consider initial states whose evolution remains confined on low dimensional subspaces of the operators space. We then find for which pairs of qubits entanglement can be generated and can persist at steady state. Finally, we determine the stationary distribution of entanglement as well as its scaling versus the total number of qubits in the system.

id: 1210.5344
title: Time Dependent $\mathcal{PT}$-Symmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Qing-hai Wang
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5344
abstract: The parity-time-reversal- ($\mathcal{PT}$) symmetric quantum mechanics (PTQM) has developed into a noteworthy area of research. However, to date most known studies of PTQM focused on the spectral properties of non-Hermitian Hamiltonian operators. In this work, we propose an axiom in PTQM in order to study general time-dependent problems in PTQM, e.g., those with a time-dependent $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric Hamiltonian and with a time-dependent metric. We illuminate our proposal by examining a proper mapping from a time-dependent Schr\"odinger-like equation of motion for PTQM to the familiar time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation in conventional quantum mechanics. The rich structure of the proper mapping hints that time-dependent PTQM can be a fruitful extension of conventional quantum mechanics. Under our proposed framework, we further study in detail the Berry phase generation in a class of $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric two-level systems. It is found that a closed path in the parameter space of PTQM is often associated with an open path in a properly mapped problem in conventional quantum mechanics. In one interesting case we further interpret the Berry phase as the flux of a continuously tunable fictitious magnetic monopole, thus highlighting the difference between PTQM and conventional quantum mechanics despite the existence of a proper mapping between them.

id: 1210.5401
title: The continuum limit of a tensor network: a path integral representation
authors: Christoph Brockt, Jutho Haegeman, David Jennings, Tobias J. Osborne, Frank Verstraete
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5401
abstract: We argue that the natural way to generalise a tensor network variational class to a continuous quantum system is to use the Feynman path integral to implement a continuous tensor contraction. This approach is illustrated for the case of a recently introduced class of quantum field states known as continuous matrix-product states (cMPS). As an example of the utility of the path-integral representation we argue that the state of a dynamically evolving quantum field admits a natural representation as a cMPS. An argument that all states in Fock space admit a cMPS representation when the number of variational parameters tends to infinity is also provided.

id: 1210.5449
title: Exact Algebraic Conditions for Indirect Controllability in Quantum Coherent Feedback Schemes
authors: Domenico D'Alessandro, Francesca Albertini, Raffaele Romano
comments: Expanded version of the previously posted paper where what was before mentioned as a conjecture is proved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5449
abstract: In coherent quantum feedback control schemes, a target quantum system S is put in contact with an auxiliary system A and the coherent control can directly affect only A. The system S is controlled 'indirectly' through the interaction with A. The system S is said to be indirectly controllable if every unitary transformation can be performed on the state of S with this scheme. The indirect controllability of S will depend on the `dynamical Lie algebra' L characterizing the dynamics of the total system S+A and on the initial state of the auxiliary system A. In this paper we describe this characterization exactly. A natural assumption is that the auxiliary system A is minimal which means that there is no part of A which is uncoupled to S, and we denote by n_A the dimension of such a minimal A, which we assume to be fully controllable. We show that, if n_A is greater than or equal to 3, indirect controllability of S is verified if and only if complete controllability of the total system S+A is verified, i.e., L=su(n_Sn_A) or L=u(n_Sn_A), where n_S denotes the dimension of the system S. If n_A=2, it is possible to have indirect controllability without having complete controllability. The exact condition for that to happen is given in terms of a Lie algebra L_S which describes the evolution on the system S only. We prove that indirect controllability is verified if and only if L_S=u(n_S), and the initial state of the auxiliary system A is pure.

id: 1210.5452
title: Braiding of non-Abelian anyons using pairwise interactions
authors: M. Burrello, B. van Heck, A. R. Akhmerov
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures. Errors corrected, clarifications and comments added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022343 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5452
abstract: The common approach to topological quantum computation is to implement quantum gates by adiabatically moving non-Abelian anyons around each other. Here we present an alternative perspective based on the possibility of realizing the exchange (braiding) operators of anyons by adiabatically varying pairwise interactions between them rather than their positions. We analyze a system composed by four anyons whose couplings define a T-junction and we show that the braiding operator of two of them can be obtained through a particular adiabatic cycle in the space of the coupling parameters. We also discuss how to couple this scheme with anyonic chains in order to recover the topological protection.

id: 1210.5530
title: Detecting genuine multipartite entanglement of pure states with bipartite correlations
authors: Marcin Markiewicz, Wieslaw Laskowski, Tomasz Paterek, Marek Zukowski
comments: journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 034301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5530
abstract: Monogamy of bipartite correlations leads, for arbitrary pure multi-qubit states, to simple conditions able to indicate various types of multipartite entanglement by being capable to exclude the possibility of k-separability.

id: 1210.5531
title: Pinning of Fermionic Occupation Numbers
authors: Christian Schilling, David Gross, Matthias Christandl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 040404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5531
abstract: The Pauli exclusion principle is a constraint on the natural occupation numbers of fermionic states. It has been suspected since at least the 1970's, and only proved very recently, that there is a multitude of further constraints on these numbers, generalizing the Pauli principle. Here, we provide the first analytic analysis of the physical relevance of these constraints. We compute the natural occupation numbers for the ground states of a family of interacting fermions in a harmonic potential. Intriguingly, we find that the occupation numbers are almost, but not exactly, pinned to the boundary of the allowed region (quasi-pinned). The result suggests that the physics behind the phenomenon is richer than previously appreciated. In particular, it shows that for some models, the generalized Pauli constraints play a role for the ground state, even though they do not limit the ground-state energy. Our findings suggest a generalization of the Hartree-Fock approximation.

id: 1210.5538
title: Optimized Dynamical Decoupling via Genetic Algorithms
authors: Gregory Quiroz, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 32 pages, 15 figures, Updated version includes section revisions and reorganization
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052306 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5538
abstract: We utilize genetic algorithms to find optimal dynamical decoupling (DD) sequences for a single-qubit system subjected to a general decoherence model under a variety of control pulse conditions. We focus on the case of sequences with equal pulse-intervals and perform the optimization with respect to pulse type and order. In this manner we obtain robust DD sequences, first in the limit of ideal pulses, then when including pulse imperfections such as finite pulse duration and qubit rotation (flip-angle) errors. Although our optimization is numerical, we identify a deterministic structure underlies the top-performing sequences. We use this structure to devise DD sequences which outperform previously designed concatenated DD (CDD) and quadratic DD (QDD) sequences in the presence of pulse errors. We explain our findings using time-dependent perturbation theory and provide a detailed scaling analysis of the optimal sequences.

id: 1210.5555
title: Demonstration of quantum entanglement between a single electron spin confined to an InAs quantum dot and a photon
authors: J. R. Schaibley, A. P. Burgers, G. A. McCracken, L.-M. Duan, P. R. Berman, D. G. Steel, A. S. Bracker, D. Gammon, L. J. Sham
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5555
abstract: The electron spin state of a singly charged semiconductor quantum dot has been shown to form a suitable single qubit for quantum computing architectures with fast gate times. A key challenge in realizing a useful quantum dot quantum computing architecture lies in demonstrating the ability to scale the system to many qubits. In this letter, we report an all optical experimental demonstration of quantum entanglement between a single electron spin confined to single charged semiconductor quantum dot and the polarization state of a photon spontaneously emitted from the quantum dot's excited state. We obtain a lower bound on the fidelity of entanglement of 0.59, which is 84% of the maximum achievable given the timing resolution of available single photon detectors. In future applications, such as measurement based spin-spin entanglement which does not require sub-nanosecond timing resolution, we estimate that this system would enable near ideal performance. The inferred (usable) entanglement generation rate is 3 x 10^3 s^-1. This spin-photon entanglement is the first step to a scalable quantum dot quantum computing architecture relying on photon (flying) qubits to mediate entanglement between distant nodes of a quantum dot network.

id: 1210.5574
title: Light narrowing of magnetic resonances in ensembles of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond
authors: K. Jensen, V. M. Acosta, A. Jarmola, D. Budker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5574
abstract: We investigate optically detected magnetic resonance signals from an ensemble of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond. The signals are measured for different light powers and microwave powers, and the contrast and linewidth of the magnetic-resonance signals are extracted. For a wide range of experimental settings of the microwave and light powers, the linewidth decreases with increasing light power, and more than a factor of two "light narrowing" is observed.Furthermore, we identify that spin-spin interaction between nitrogen-vacancy centers and substitutional nitrogen atoms in the diamond leads to changes in the lineshape and the linewidth of the optically detected magnetic-resonance signals. Finally, the importance of the light-narrowing effect for optimizing the sensitivity of magnetic field measurements is discussed.

id: 1210.5609
title: Two Dimensional Isotropic Harmonic Oscillator on a Time-dependent Sphere
authors: Ali Mahdifar, Behrouz Mirza, Rasoul Roknizadeh
comments: 12 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 465301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5609
abstract: In this paper, we investigate a two dimensional isotropic harmonic oscillator on a time-dependent spherical background. The effect of the background can be represented as a minimally coupled field to the oscillator's Hamiltonian. For a fluctuating background, transition probabilities per unit time are obtained. Transitions are possible if the energy eigenvalues of the oscillator $E_i$ and frequencies of the fluctuating background $\omega_n$ satisfy the following two simple relations: $E_{j}\simeq E_{i}-\hbar\omega_{n}$ (stimulated emission) or $E_{j}\simeq E_{i}+\hbar\omega_{n}$ (absorption). This indicates that a background fluctuating at a frequency of $\omega_n$ interacts with the oscillator as a quantum field of the same frequency. We believe this result is also applicable for an arbitrary quantum system defined on a fluctuating maximally symmetric background.

id: 1210.5613
title: Non-Hermitian anisotropic XY model with intrinsic rotation-time reversal symmetry
authors: X. Z. Zhang, Z. Song
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012114 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5613
abstract: We systematically study the non-Hermitian version of the one-dimensional anisotropic XY model, which in its original form, is a unique exactly solvable quantum spin model for understanding the quantum phase transition. The distinguishing features of this model are that it has full real spectrum if all the eigenvectors are intrinsic rotation-time reversal (RT) symmetric rather than parity-time reversal (PT) symmetric, and that its Hermitian counterpart is shown approximately to be an experimentally accessible system, an isotropic XY spin chain with nearest neighbor coupling. Based on the exact solution, exceptional points which separated the unbroken and broken symmetry regions are obtained and lie on a hyperbola in the thermodynamic limit. It provides a nice paradigm to elucidate the complex quantum mechanics theory for a quantum spin system.

id: 1210.5625
title: Ergodic and Mixing Quantum Channels in Finite Dimensions
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Giulio Chiribella, Vittorio Giovannetti, Paolo Perinotti, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: replaced with published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 073045 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5625
abstract: The paper provides a systematic characterization of quantum ergodic and mixing channels in finite dimensions and a discussion of their structural properties. In particular, we discuss ergodicity in the general case where the fixed point of the channel is not a full-rank (faithful) density matrix. Notably, we show that ergodicity is stable under randomizations, namely that every random mixture of an ergodic channel with a generic channel is still ergodic. In addition, we prove several conditions under which ergodicity can be promoted to the stronger property of mixing. Finally, exploiting a suitable correspondence between quantum channels and generators of quantum dynamical semigroups, we extend our results to the realm of continuous-time quantum evolutions, providing a characterization of ergodic Lindblad generators and showing that they are dense in the set of all possible generators.

id: 1210.5645
title: A statistical portrait of the entanglement decay of two-qubit memories
authors: Karen M. Fonseca-Romero, Juli¨¢n Mart¨ªnez-Rinc¨®n, Carlos Viviescas
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 042325 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5645
abstract: We present a novel approach to the study of entanglement decay, which focuses on collective properties. As an example, we investigate the entanglement decay of a two-qubit system, produced by local identical reservoirs acting on the qubits, for three experimentally and theoretically relevant cases. We study the probability distributions of disentanglement times, a quantity independent of the measure used to quantify entanglement, and the time-dependent probability distribution of concurrence. Analytical results are obtained for initially uniformly distributed pure states. The calculation of these probability distributions gives a complete insight on how different decoherence channels affect the entanglement initially contained in the set of two-qubit pure states. Numerical results are reported for randomly distributed initial mixed states. Although the paper focuses in Markovian noisy channels, we show that our results also describe non-autonomous and non-Markovian channels.

id: 1210.5646
title: Time-ordering Dependence of Measurements in Teleportation
authors: Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Heide Narnhofer, Walter Thirring
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures; v2; formalism of isometries elaborately discussed, some changes in formulas, figure and reference added; typos corrected
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2013) 67:62
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5646
abstract: We trace back the phenomenon of "delayed-choice entanglement swapping" as it was realized in a recent experiment to the commutativity of the projection operators that are involved in the corresponding measurement process. We also propose an experimental set-up which depends on the order of successive measurements corresponding to noncommutative projection operators. In this case entanglement swapping is used to teleport a quantum state from Alice to Bob, where Bob has now the possibility to examine the noncommutativity within the quantum history.

id: 1210.5656
title: Fidelity of the quantum delta-kicked accelerator
authors: R. K. Shrestha, S. Wimberger, J. Ni, W. K. Lam, G. S. Summy
comments: 4 pages, two clolumns
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 020902(R)(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5656
abstract: The sensitivity of the fidelity in the kicked rotor to an acceleration is experimentally and theoretically investigated. We used a Bose-Einstein condensate exposed to a sequence of pulses from a standing light wave followed by a single reversal pulse in which the standing wave was shifted by half a wavelength. The features of the fidelity "spectrum" as a function of acceleration are presented. This work may find application in the measurement of temperature of an atomic sample.

id: 1210.5657
title: A cold-atom ratchet interpolating between classical and quantum dynamics
authors: R. K. Shrestha, W. K. Lam, J. Ni, G. S. Summy
comments: This is a paper following arXiv:1210.6025
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5657
abstract: We study the crossover between classical and quantum dynamics by observing the behavior of a quantum ratchet created by exposing a Bose-Einstein condensate to short pulses of a potential which is periodic in both space and time. Such a ratchet is manifested by a directed current of particles, even though there is an absence of a net bias force. We confirm that the ratchet behavior can under certain circumstances be the same in both regimes. We demonstrate that this behavior can be understood using a single variable containing many of the experimental parameters and thus the ratchet current is describable using a single universal scaling law.

id: 1210.5681
title: Can relativistic bit commitment lead to secure quantum oblivious transfer?
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: Published version. This paper generalized some results in Sec. V of arXiv:1101.4587, and pointed out the limitation of the proof in arXiv:quant-ph/9611031
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D. 69, 93 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5681
abstract: While unconditionally secure bit commitment (BC) is considered impossible within the quantum framework, it can be obtained under relativistic or experimental constraints. Here we study whether such BC can lead to secure quantum oblivious transfer (QOT). The answer is not completely negative. On one hand, we provide a detailed cheating strategy, showing that the "honest-but-curious adversaries" in some of the existing no-go proofs on QOT still apply even if secure BC is used, enabling the receiver to increase the average reliability of the decoded value of the transferred bit. On the other hand, it is also found that some other no-go proofs claiming that a dishonest receiver can always decode all transferred bits simultaneously with reliability 100% become invalid in this scenario, because their models of cryptographic protocols are too ideal to cover such a BC-based QOT.

id: 1210.5748
title: A geometrical approach to the mean density of states in many-body quantum systems
authors: Quirin Hummel, Juan Diego Urbina, Klaus Richter
comments: 45 pages, 21 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5748
abstract: We present a novel analytical approach for the calculation of the mean density of states in many-body systems made of confined indistinguishable and non-interacting particles. Our method makes explicit the intrinsic geometry inherent in the symmetrization postulate and, in the spirit of the usual Weyl expansion for the smooth part of the density of states in single-particle confined systems, our results take the form of a sum over clusters of particles moving freely around manifolds in configuration space invariant under elements of the group of permutations. Being asymptotic, our approximation gives increasingly better results for large excitation energies and we formally confirm that it coincides with the celebrated Bethe estimate in the appropriate region. Moreover, our construction gives the correct high energy asymptotics expected from general considerations, and shows that the emergence of the fermionic ground state is actually a consequence of an extremely delicate large cancellation effect. Remarkably, our expansion in cluster zones is naturally incorporated for systems of interacting particles, opening the road to address the fundamental problem about the interplay between confinement and interactions in many-body systems of identical particles.

id: 1210.5788
title: Generation of two-mode entanglement via atomic coherence created by non-resonant dressed-state transitions
authors: Jinhua Zou, Dahai Xu, Huafeng Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5788
abstract: Two-mode squeezing and entanglement is obtained in a atom-cavity system cosisting a three-level atom and a two-mode cavity with driving laser fields. Here non-resonatn dressed-state transitions between the cavity modes and atom are used to get the effective Hamiltonian.

id: 1210.5799
title: Surface code with decoherence: An analysis of three superconducting architectures
authors: Joydip Ghosh, Austin G. Fowler, Michael R. Geller
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062318 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5799
abstract: We consider realistic, multi-parameter error models and investigate the performance of the surface code for three possible fault-tolerant superconducting quantum computer architectures. We map amplitude and phase damping to a diagonal Pauli "depolarization" channel via the Pauli twirl approximation, and obtain the logical error rate as a function of the qubit T1, T2 and state preparation, gate, and readout errors. A numerical Monte Carlo simulation is performed to obtain the logical error rates and a leading-order analytic formula is derived to estimate their behavior below threshold. Our results suggest that scalable fault-tolerant quantum computation should be possible with existing superconducting devices.

id: 1210.5827
title: Evolution of quantum correlations in a two-atom system
authors: Ryszard Tana?
comments: Submitted to the proceeding od the CEWQO 2012 Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5827
abstract: We discuss the evolution of quantum correlations for a system of two two-level atoms interacting with a common reservoir. The Markovian master equation is used to describe the evolution of various measures of quantum correlations.

id: 1210.5832
title: Some Properties of Multi-Qubit States in Non-Inertial Frames
authors: Alaa Sagheer, Hala Hamdoun
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5832
abstract: In this paper, some properties of multi-qubit states traveling in non-inertial frames are investigated, where we assume that all particles are accelerated. These properties are including fidelities, capacities and entanglement of the accelerated channels for three different states, namely, Greeberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state, GHZ-like state and W-state. It is shown here that all these properties are decreased as the accelerations of the moving particles are increased. The obtained results show that the GHZ-state is the most robust one comparing to the others, where the degradation rate is less than that for the other states particularly in the second Rindler region. Also, it is shown here that the entangled property doesn't change in the accelerated frames. Additionally, the paper shows that the degree of entanglement decreases as the accelerations of the particles increase in the first Rindler region. However in the second region, where all subsystems are disconnected at zero acceleration, entangled channels are generated as the acceleration increases. Keywords: Multi-qubit states, Non-inertial frame, Fidelity, Capacity, Entanglement, GHZ state, GHZ-like state, W-state.

id: 1210.5886
title: Approximate analytical solution of the Yukawa potential with arbitrary angular momenta
authors: M. Hamzavi, M. Movahedi, K.-E. Thylwe, A. A. Rajabi
comments: 11pages, 1 figure
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 21(2012) 080302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5886
abstract: The Yukawa potential is often used to compute bound-state normalizations and energy levels of neutral atoms. By using the generalized parametric Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method, we have obtained the approximate analytical solutions of the radial Schr\"odinger equation (SE) for the Yukawa potential. The energy eigenvalues and corresponding eigenfunctions are calculated in closed forms. Some numerical results are presented and showed that these results are in good agreement with those are obtained previously by other methods. Also, we found the energy levels of the familiar pure Coulomb potential energy levels when the screening parameter of the Yukawa potential goes to zero.

id: 1210.5891
title: The Rotation-Vibration Spectrum of Diatomic Molecules with the Tietz-Hua Rotating oscillator
authors: M. Hamzavi, A. A. Rajabi, K.-E. Thylwe
comments: 14 pages
journal: Int. J. Quant. Chem. 112 (2012) 2701
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5891
abstract: The Tietz-Hua (TH) potential is one of the very best analytical model potentials for the vibrational energy of diatomic molecules. By using the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method, we have obtained the exact analytical s-wave solutions of the radial Schr\"odinger equation (SE) for the TH potential. The energy eigenvalues and the corresponding eigenfunctions are calculated in closed forms. Some numerical results for diatomic molecules are also presented.

id: 1210.5894
title: Exact S-Wave Solution of the Trigonometric Poschl-Teller Potential
authors: M. Hamzavi, A. A. Rajabi
comments: 10pages, 1 figure
journal: Int. J. Quant. Chem. 112 (2012) 1592
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5894
abstract: The trigonometric P\"oschl-Teller (PT) potential describes the diatomic molecular vibration. By using the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method, we have obtained the exact analytical s-wave solutions of the radial Schr\"odinger equation (SE) for the trigonometric PT potential. The energy eigenvalues and corresponding eigenfunctions are calculated in closed forms. Some numerical results are presented too.

id: 1210.5945
title: Reliable Entanglement Detection Under Coarse--Grained Measurements
authors: D. S. Tasca, ?ukasz Rudnicki, R. M. Gomes, F. Toscano, S. P. Walborn
comments: Dedicated to Iwo Bialynicki-Birula on his 80th birthday, who inspired much of this work
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 210502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5945
abstract: We derive reliable entanglement witnesses for coarse--grained measurements on continuous variable systems. These witnesses never return a "false positive" for identification of entanglement, under any degree of coarse graining. We show that, even in the case of Gaussian states, entanglement witnesses based on the Shannon entropy can outperform those based on variances. We apply our results to experimental identification of spatial entanglement of photon pairs.

id: 1210.5978
title: Quantum contextuality from a simple principle?
authors: Joe Henson
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. Version 2: note added to acknowledge the previously overlooked work of Fritz, Sainz, Augusiak, Brask, Chaves, Leverrier, and Ac\'in, which gives results and arguments essentially the same as some of those given here. Some references added. v3: comment altered for various reasons, particularly to correct a mistaken labeling of a result
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5978
abstract: In a recent article entitled "A simple explanation of the quantum violation of a fundamental inequality," Cabello proposes a condition on a class of probabilistic models that, he claims, gives the same bound on contextuality for the KCBS inequality as quantum mechanics, and also rules out PR-box nonlocality. He conjectures that the condition will also reproduce quantum limits on contextuality in other scenarios. Here we show that the proposed principle is actually too weak to derive these results. Cabello has implicitly assumed in the proofs that if all pairs in a set of events are pairwise exclusive (so that their probabilities must sum to less than 1), the set can itself be considered exclusive. Perhaps surprisingly, this is not in general true in the general probabilistic framework under discussion. We call this hidden assumption "Consistent Exclusivity" or CE. With this extra assumption Cabello's proofs are sound. Furthermore, it is established that CE holds in quantum mechanics, providing a reasonable and simple new principle that may characterise quantum non-contextuality in many scenarios.

id: 1210.6025
title: Controlling the Momentum Current of an Off-resonant Ratchet
authors: R. K. Shrestha, J. Ni, W. K. Lam, S. Wimberger, G. S. Summy
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1210.5657
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043617(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6025
abstract: We experimentally investigate the phenomenon of a quantum ratchet created by exposing a Bose-Einstein Condensate to short pulses of a potential which is periodic in both space and time. Such a ratchet is manifested by a directed current of particles, even though there is an absence of a net bias force. We confirm a recent theoretical prediction [M. Sadgrove and S. Wimberger, New J. Phys. \textbf{11}, 083027 (2009)] that the current direction can be controlled by experimental parameters which leave the underlying symmetries of the system unchanged. We demonstrate that this behavior can be understood using a single variable containing many of the experimental parameters and thus the ratchet current is describable using a single universal scaling law.

id: 1210.6026
title: Relating the solutions of the Dirac equation with a background electric potential to solutions with a background pseudoscalar potential
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6026
abstract: We compare two different solutions of the Dirac equation in (1+1) dimensions. One solution is for a fermion in the presence of an electric potential and the other is for a fermion in the presence of a pseudoscalar potential. It is shown that for properly defined potentials one can easily relate the solutions of one system to the solutions of the other. In effect, solving one problem gives the solution to both. In addition, the vacuum charge density is calculated in the both cases and it is shown how this result is impacted by the presence of anomalies in quantum field theory.

id: 1210.6043
title: Uncertainty Relations and Indistinguishable Particles
authors: Cael L. Hasse
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. Minor changes made to the legend of Fig. 1 and typos corrected. Matches published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6043
abstract: We show that for fermion states, measurements of any two finite outcome particle quantum numbers (e.g.\ spin) are not constrained by a minimum total uncertainty. We begin by defining uncertainties in terms of the outputs of a measurement apparatus. This allows us to compare uncertainties between multi-particle states of distinguishable and indistinguishable particles. Entropic uncertainty relations are derived for both distinguishable and indistinguishable particles. We then derive upper bounds on the minimum total uncertainty for bosons and fermions. These upper bounds apply to any pair of particle quantum numbers and depend only on the number of particles N and the number of outcomes n for the quantum numbers. For general N, these upper bounds necessitate a minimum total uncertainty much lower than that for distinguishable particles. The fermion upper bound on the minimum total uncertainty for N an integer multiple of n, is zero. Our results show that uncertainty limits derived for single particle observables are valid only for particles that can be effectively distinguished. Outside this range of validity, the apparent fundamental uncertainty limits can be overcome.

id: 1210.6051
title: Entanglement verification and steering when Alice and Bob cannot be trusted
authors: Eric G. Cavalcanti, Michael J. W. Hall, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032306 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6051
abstract: Various protocols exist by which a referee can be convinced that two observers share an entangled resource. Such protocols typically specify the types of communication allowed, and the degrees of trust required, between the referee and each observer. Here it is shown that the need for any degree of trust of the observers by the referee can be completely removed via the referee using classical and quantum communication channels appropriately. In particular, trust-free verification of Bell nonlocality, EPR-steering, and entanglement, respectively, requires two classical channels, one classical and one quantum channel, and two quantum channels. These channels correspond to suitable inputs of quantum randomness by the referee, which prevent the observers from mimicking entanglement using shared classical randomness. Our results generalize recent work by Buscemi [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 200401 (2012)], and offer a perspective on the operational significance of that work. They also offer the possibility of simpler experimental demonstrations of the basic idea of quantum-refereed nonlocality tests.

id: 1210.6137
title: Noncollinear parametric fluorescence by chirped quasi-phase matching for monocycle temporal entanglement
authors: Akira Tanaka, Ryo Okamoto, Hwan Hong Lim, Shanthi Subashchandran, Masayuki Okano, Labao Zhang, Lin Kang, Jian Chen, Peiheng Wu, Toru Hirohata, Sunao Kurimura, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Optics Express 20 (23) 25228-25238 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6137
abstract: Quantum entanglement of two photons created by spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC) can be used to probe quantum optical phenomena during a single cycle of light. Harris [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 063602 (2007)] suggested using ultrabroad parametric fluorescence generated from a quasi-phase-matched (QPM) device whose poling period is chirped. In the Harris\' s original proposal, it is assumed that the photons are collinearly generated and then spatially separated by frequency filtering. Here, we alternatively propose using noncollinearly generated SPDC. In our numerical calculation, to achieve 1.2 cycle temporal correlation for a 532 nm pump laser, only 10% -chirped device is sufficient when noncollinear condition is applied, while a largely chirped (50%) device is required in collinear condition. We also experimentally demonstrate an octave-spanning (790-1610 nm) noncollinear parametric fluorescence from a 10% chirped MgSLT crystal using both a superconducting nanowire single-photon detector and photomultiplier tube as photon detectors. The observed SPDC bandwidth is 194 THz, which is the largest width achieved to date for a chirped QPM device. From this experimental result, our numerical analysis predicts that the bi-photon can be compressed to 1.2 cycles with appropriate phase compensation.

id: 1210.6178
title: Efficient entanglement concentration for arbitrary less-entangled N-atom state
authors: Lan Zhou
comments: 10 page, 5 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6178
abstract: A recent paper (Phys. Rev. A 86, 034305 (2012)) proposed an entanglement concentration protocol (ECP) for less-entangled $N$-atom GHZ state with the help of the photonic Faraday rotation. It is shown that the maximally entangled atom state can be distilled from two pairs of less-entangled atom states. In this paper, we put forward an improved ECP for arbitrary less-entangled N-atom GHZ state with only one pair of less-entangled atom state, one auxiliary atom and one auxiliary photon. Moreover, our ECP can be used repeatedly to obtain a higher success probability. If consider the practical operation and imperfect detection, our protocol is more efficient. This ECP may be useful in current quantum information processing.

id: 1210.6195
title: Single-shot readout of multiple nuclear spin qubits in diamond under ambient conditions
authors: A. Dr¨¦au, P. Spinicelli, J. R. Maze, J.-F. Roch, V. Jacques
comments: 11 pages including supplementary information. Bibliography corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 060502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6195
abstract: We use the electronic spin of a single Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV) defect in diamond to observe the real-time evolution of neighboring single nuclear spins under ambient conditions. Using a diamond sample with a natural abundance of $^{13}$C isotopes, we first demonstrate high fidelity initialization and single-shot readout of an individual $^{13}$C nuclear spin. By including the intrinsic $^{14}$N nuclear spin of the NV defect in the quantum register, we then report the simultaneous observation of quantum jumps linked to both nuclear spin species, providing an efficient initialization of the two qubits. These results open up new avenues for diamond-based quantum information processing including active feedback in quantum error correction protocols and tests of quantum correlations with solid-state single spins at room temperature.

id: 1210.6213
title: Superluminal Pulse Propagation in a One-sided Nanomechanical Cavity System
authors: Devrim Tarhan
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, accepted by Acta Physica Polonica A
journal: ACTA PHYSICA POLONICA A 124, 46 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6213
abstract: We investigate the propagation of a pulse field in an optomechanical system. We examine the question of advance of the pulse under the conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency in the mechanical system contained in a high quality cavity. We show that the group delay can be controlled by the power of the coupling field. The time delay is negative which corresponds to superluminal light when there is a strong coupling between the nano-oscillator and the cavity.

id: 1210.6216
title: Experimental demonstration of long-distance continuous-variable quantum key distribution
authors: Paul Jouguet, S¨¦bastien Kunz-Jacques, Anthony Leverrier, Philippe Grangier, Eleni Diamanti
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 378-381 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6216
abstract: Distributing secret keys with information-theoretic security is arguably one of the most important achievements of the field of quantum information processing and communications. The rapid progress in this field has enabled quantum key distribution (QKD) in real-world conditions and commercial devices are now readily available. QKD systems based on continuous variables present the major advantage that they only require standard telecommunication technology, and in particular, that they do not use photon counters. However, these systems were considered up till now unsuitable for long-distance communication. Here, we overcome all previous limitations and demonstrate for the first time continuous-variable quantum key distribution over 80 km of optical fibre. The demonstration includes all aspects of a practical scenario, with real-time generation of secret keys, stable operation in a regular environment, and use of finite-size data blocks for secret information computation and key distillation. Our results correspond to an implementation guaranteeing the strongest level of security for QKD reported to date for such long distances and pave the way to practical applications of secure quantum communications.

id: 1210.6243
title: Controlled double-slit electron diffraction
authors: Roger Bach, Damian Pope, Sy-Hwang Liou, Herman Batelaan
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6243
abstract: Double-slit diffraction is a corner stone of quantum mechanics. It illustrates key features of quantum mechanics: interference and the particle-wave duality of matter. In 1965, Richard Feynman presented a thought experiment to show these features. Here we demonstrate the full realization of his famous thought experiment. By placing a movable mask in front of a double-slit to control the transmission through the individual slits, probability distributions for single- and double-slit arrangements were observed. Also, by recording single electron detection events diffracting through a double-slit, a diffraction pattern was built up from individual events.

id: 1210.6251
title: Dirac Matrices and Feynman's Rest of the Universe
authors: Young S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: Latex 19 pages with 2 figures. Abstract modified. Minor corrections
journal: Symmetry 4, 626-643 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6251
abstract: There are two sets of four-by-four matrices introduced by Dirac. The first set consists of fifteen Majorana matrices derivable from his four $\gamma$ matrices. These fifteen matrices can also serve as the generators of the group $SL(4,r)$. The second set consists of ten generators of the $Sp(4)$ group which Dirac derived from two coupled harmonic oscillators. It is shown possible to extend the symmetry of $Sp(4)$ to that of $SL(4,r)$ if the area of the phase space of one of the oscillators is allowed to become smaller without a lower limit. While there are no restrictions on the size of phase space in classical mechanics, Feynman's rest of the universe makes this $Sp(4)$-to-$SL(4,r)$ transition possible. The ten generators are for the world where quantum mechanics is valid. The remaining five generators belong to the rest of the universe. It is noted that the groups $SL(4,r)$ and $Sp(4)$ are locally isomorphic to the Lorentz groups O(3,3) and O(3,2) respectively. This allows us to interpret Feynman's rest of the universe in terms of space-time symmetry.

id: 1210.6367
title: Quantum de Finetti Theorems under Local Measurements with Applications
authors: Fernando G. S. L. Brandao, Aram W. Harrow
comments: 39 pages, no figure. v2: changes to references and other minor improvements. v3: added some explanations, mostly about Theorem 1 and Conjecture 5. STOC version. v4, v5. small improvements and fixes
journal: Proc. of the 45th ACM Symposium on theory of computing (STOC 2013), pp. 861-870
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6367
abstract: Quantum de Finetti theorems are a useful tool in the study of correlations in quantum multipartite states. In this paper we prove two new quantum de Finetti theorems, both showing that under tests formed by local measurements one can get a much improved error dependence on the dimension of the subsystems. We also obtain similar results for non-signaling probability distributions. We give the following applications of the results: We prove the optimality of the Chen-Drucker protocol for 3-SAT, under the exponential time hypothesis. We show that the maximum winning probability of free games can be estimated in polynomial time by linear programming. We also show that 3-SAT with m variables can be reduced to obtaining a constant error approximation of the maximum winning probability under entangled strategies of O(m^{1/2})-player one-round non-local games, in which the players communicate O(m^{1/2}) bits all together. We show that the optimization of certain polynomials over the hypersphere can be performed in quasipolynomial time in the number of variables n by considering O(log(n)) rounds of the Sum-of-Squares (Parrilo/Lasserre) hierarchy of semidefinite programs. As an application to entanglement theory, we find a quasipolynomial-time algorithm for deciding multipartite separability. We consider a result due to Aaronson -- showing that given an unknown n qubit state one can perform tomography that works well for most observables by measuring only O(n) independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) copies of the state -- and relax the assumption of having i.i.d copies of the state to merely the ability to select subsystems at random from a quantum multipartite state. The proofs of the new quantum de Finetti theorems are based on information theory, in particular on the chain rule of mutual information.

id: 1210.6371
title: Quantum Correlations and the Measurement Problem
authors: Jeffrey Bub
comments: 28 pages, 1 figure. Based on a talk for the Symposium 'Quantum Foundations and Logical Dynamics,' at the 11th Biennial IQSA Meeting 'Quantum Structures Cagliari 2012.' Revised version corrects discussion of polytopes, primarily in section 2 (thanks to Tony Sudbury). Figures revised. For v3, corrected confusing typo on p. 13
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6371
abstract: The transition from classical to quantum mechanics rests on the recognition that the structure of information is not what we thought it was: there are operational, i.e., phenomenal, probabilistic correlations that lie outside the polytope of local correlations. Such correlations cannot be simulated with classical resources, which generate classical correlations represented by the points in a simplex, where the vertices of the simplex represent joint deterministic states that are the common causes of the correlations. The `no go' hidden variable theorems tell us that we can't shoe-horn correlations outside the local polytope into a classical simplex by supposing that something has been left out of the story. The replacement of the classical simplex by the quantum convex set as the structure representing probabilistic correlations is the analogue for quantum mechanics of the replacement of Newton's Euclidean space and time by Minkowski spacetime in special relativity. The nonclassical features of quantum mechanics, including the irreducible information loss on measurement, are generic features of correlations that lie outside the local correlation polytope. This paper is an elaboration of these ideas, and its consequences for the measurement problem of quantum mechanics. A large part of the difficulty is removed by seeing that the inconsistency in reconciling the entangled state at the end of a quantum measurement process with the definiteness of the macroscopic pointer reading and the definiteness of the correlated value of the measured micro-observable is only apparent and depends on a stipulation that is not required by the structure of the quantum possibility space. Replacing this stipulation by an alternative consistent stipulation resolves the problem.

id: 1210.6374
title: Incoherent Excitation of Thermally Equilibrated Open Quantum Systems
authors: Leonardo A. Pachon, Paul Brumer
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures. Minor changes. It matches the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022106 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6374
abstract: Under natural conditions, excitation of biological molecules, which display non-unitary open system dynamics, occurs via incoherent processes such as temperature changes or irradiation by sunlight/moonlight. The dynamics of such processes is explored analytically in a non-Markovian generic model. Specifically, a system S in equilibrium with a thermal bath TB is subjected to an external incoherent perturbation BB (such as sunlight) or another thermal bath TB', which induces time evolution in (S+TB). Particular focus is on (i) the extent to which the resultant dynamics is coherent, and (ii) the role of "stationary coherences", established in the (S+TB) equilibration, in the response to the second incoherent perturbation. Results for systems with parameters analogous to those in light harvesting molecules in photosynthesis show that the resultant dynamical behaviour is incoherent beyond a very short response to the turn-on of the perturbation.

id: 1210.6407
title: Individual-Ion Addressing with Microwave Field Gradients
authors: U. Warring, C. Ospelkaus, Y. Colombe, R. J?rdens, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 5 pages and 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 173002 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6407
abstract: Individual-qubit addressing is a prerequisite for many instances of quantum information processing. We demonstrate this capability on trapped-ion qubits with microwave near-fields delivered by electrode structures integrated into a microfabricated surface-electrode trap. We describe four approaches that may be used in quantum information experiments with hyperfine levels as qubits. We implement individual control on two 25Mg+ ions separated by 4.3 micrometer and find spin-flip crosstalk errors on the order of 10^(-3).

id: 1210.6463
title: Direct characterization of linear-optical networks
authors: Saleh Rahimi-Keshari, Matthew A. Broome, Robert Fickler, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Timothy C. Ralph, Andrew G. White
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 11, pp. 13450-13458 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6463
abstract: We introduce an efficient method for fully characterizing multimode linear-optical networks. Our approach requires only a standard laser source and intensity measurements to directly and uniquely determine all moduli and non-trivial phases of the matrix describing a network. We experimentally demonstrate the characterization of a $6{\times}6$ fiber-optic network and independently verify the results via nonclassical two-photon interference.

id: 1210.6471
title: Factorization of numbers with truncated Gauss sums at rational arguments
authors: S. W?lk, C. Feiler, W. P. Schleich
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. mod. Opt. 56, 2118 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6471
abstract: Factorization of numbers with the help of Gauss sums relies on an intimate relationship between the maxima of these functions and the factors. Indeed, when we restrict ourselves to integer arguments of the Gauss sum we profit from a one-to-one relationship. As a result the identification of factors by the maxima is unique. However, for non-integer arguments such as rational numbers this powerful instrument to find factors breaks down. We develop new strategies for factoring numbers using Gauss sums at rational arguments. This approach may find application in a recent suggestion to factor numbers using an light interferometer [V. Tamma et al., J. Mod. Opt. in this volume] discussed in this issue.

id: 1210.6474
title: Factorization of numbers with Gauss sums: I. Mathematical background
authors: S. W?lk, W. Merkel, W. P. Schleich, I. Sh. Averbukh, B. Girard
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 103007 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6474
abstract: We use the periodicity properties of generalized Gauss sums to factor numbers. Moreover, we derive rules for finding the factors and illustrate this factorization scheme for various examples. This algorithm relies solely on interference and scales exponentially.

id: 1210.6487
title: Factorization of numbers with Gauss sums: II. Suggestions for implementations with chirped laser pulses
authors: W. Merkel, S. W?lk, W. P. Schleich, I. Sh. Averbukh, B. Girard, G. G. Paulus
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 103008 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6487
abstract: We propose three implementations of the Gauss sum factorization schemes discussed in part I of this series: (i) a two-photon transition in a multi-level ladder system induced by a chirped laser pulse, (ii) a chirped one-photon transition in a two-level atom with a periodically modulated excited state, and (iii) a linearly chirped one-photon transition driven by a sequence of ultrashort pulses. For each of these quantum systems we show that the excitation probability amplitude is given by an appropriate Gauss sum. We provide rules how to encode the number N to be factored in our system and how to identify the factors of N in the fluorescence signal of the excited state.

id: 1210.6491
title: Factorization of numbers with Gauss sums: III. Algorithms with Entanglement
authors: S. W?lk, W. P. Schleich
comments: 29 pages, 13 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 013049 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6491
abstract: We propose two algorithms to factor numbers using Gauss sums and entanglement: (i) in a Shor-like algorithm we encode the standard Gauss sum in one of two entangled states and (ii) in an interference algorithm we create a superposition of Gauss sums in the probability amplitudes of two entangled states.These schemes are rather efficient provided that there exists a fast algorithm that can detect a period of a function hidden in its zeros.

id: 1210.6512
title: An Introduction to Quantum Computing using Cavity QED concepts
authors: Zachary Burell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6512
abstract: We present a concise but complete conceptual treatment of quantum computing implemented with Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics (CQED. The paper is intended as a brief overview for professionals who are coming over to the field from other areas and who may have not discussed the concepts behind quantum computing during their technical training.

id: 1210.6514
title: Full randomness from arbitrarily deterministic events
authors: Rodrigo Gallego, Lluis Masanes, Gonzalo de la Torre, Chirag Dhara, Leandro Aolita, Antonio Acin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures + appendices
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2654 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6514
abstract: Do completely unpredictable events exist in nature? Classical theory, being fully deterministic, completely excludes fundamental randomness. On the contrary, quantum theory allows for randomness within its axiomatic structure. Yet, the fact that a theory makes prediction only in probabilistic terms does not imply the existence of any form of randomness in nature. The question then remains whether one can certify randomness independent of the physical framework used. While standard Bell tests approach this question from this perspective, they require prior perfect randomness, which renders the approach circular. Recently, it has been shown that it is possible to certify full randomness using almost perfect random bits. Here, we prove that full randomness can indeed be certified using quantum non-locality under the minimal possible assumptions: the existence of a source of arbitrarily weak (but non-zero) randomness and the impossibility of instantaneous signalling. Thus we are left with a strict dichotomic choice: either our world is fully deterministic or there exist in nature events that are fully random. Apart from the foundational implications, our results represent a quantum protocol for full randomness amplification, an information task known to be impossible classically. Finally, they open a new path for device-independent protocols under minimal assumptions.

id: 1210.6520
title: Error Estimation, Error Correction and Verification In Quantum Key Distribution
authors: ?ystein Mar?y, Magne Gudmundsen, Lars Lydersen, Johannes Skaar
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: IET Inf. Secur. 8, 277-282 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6520
abstract: We consider error correction in quantum key distribution. To avoid that Alice and Bob unwittingly end up with different keys precautions must be taken. Before running the error correction protocol, Bob and Alice normally sacrifice some bits to estimate the error rate. To reduce the probability that they end up with different keys to an acceptable level, we show that a large number of bits must be sacrificed. Instead, if Alice and Bob can make a good guess about the error rate before the error correction, they can verify that their keys are similar after the error correction protocol. This verification can be done by utilizing properties of Low Density Parity Check codes used in the error correction. We compare the methods and show that by verification it is often possible to sacrifice less bits without compromising security. The improvement is heavily dependent on the error rate and the block length, but for a key produced by the IdQuantique system Clavis^2, the increase in the key rate is approximately 5 percent. We also show that for systems with large fluctuations in the error rate a combination of the two methods is optimal.

id: 1210.6550
title: Quantum states experimentally achieving high-fidelity transmission over a spin chain
authors: Zhao-Ming Wang, Lian-Ao Wu, C. Allen Bishop, Yong-Jian Gu, Mark S. Byrd
comments: comments are welcome. 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6550
abstract: A uniformly coupled double quantum Hamiltonian for a spin chain has recently been implemented experimentally. We propose a method for the determination of initial quantum states that will provide perfect or near-perfect state transmission for an arbitrary Hamiltonian including this one. By calculating the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a unitary operator obtained from the free evolution plus an exchange operator, we find that the double quantum Hamiltonian spin chain will support a three-spin initial encoding that will transfer along the chain with remarkably high fidelity. The fidelity is also found to decrease very slowly with increasing chain length. In addition, we are able to explain previous results showing exceptional transfer using this method.

id: 1210.6590
title: Measure of decoherence in quantum error correction for solid-state quantum computing
authors: Alexey A. Melnikov, Leonid E. Fedichkin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6590
abstract: We considered the interaction of semiconductor quantum register with noisy environment leading to various types of qubit errors. We analysed both phase and amplitude decays during the process of electron-phonon interaction. The performance of quantum error correction codes (QECC) which will be inevitably used in full scale quantum information processors was studied in realistic conditions in semiconductor nanostructures. As a hardware basis for quantum bit we chose the quantum spatial states of single electron in semiconductor coupled double quantum dot system. The modified 5- and 9-qubit quantum error correction (QEC) algorithms by Shor and DiVincenzo without error syndrome extraction were applied to quantum register. 5-qubit error correction procedures were implemented for Si charge double dot qubits in the presence of acoustic phonon environment. Chi-matrix, Choi-Jamiolkowski state and measure of decoherence techniques were used to quantify qubit fault-tolerance. Our results showed that the introduction of above quantum error correction techniques at small phonon noise levels provided quadratic improvement of output error rates. The efficiency of 5-qubits quantum error correction algorithm in semiconductor quantum information processors was demonstrated.

id: 1210.6613
title: Frustration free gapless Hamiltonians for Matrix Product States
authors: Carlos Fern¨¢ndez-Gonz¨¢lez, Norbert Schuch, Michael M. Wolf, J. Ignacio Cirac, David P¨¦rez-Garc¨ªa
comments: 36 pages, new version with some contents rearranged, and a correction in the injective case
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 333, 299-333 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6613
abstract: For every Matrix Product State (MPS) one can always construct a so-called parent Hamiltonian. This is a local, frustration free, Hamiltonian which has the MPS as ground state and is gapped. Whenever that parent Hamiltonian has a degenerate ground state (the so-called non-injective case), we construct another 'uncle' Hamiltonian which is local and frustration free but gapless, and its spectrum is $\R^+$. The construction is obtained by linearly perturbing the matrices building up the state in a random direction, and then taking the limit where the perturbation goes to zero. For MPS where the parent Hamiltonian has a unique ground state (the so-called injective case) we also build such uncle Hamiltonian with the same properties in the thermodynamic limit.

id: 1210.6626
title: A Quantum Model for Autonomous Learning Automata
authors: Michael Siomau
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, 19 references
journal: Quantum Information Processing Vol. 13, Issue 5, pp 1211-1221 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6626
abstract: The idea of information encoding on quantum bearers and its quantum-mechanical processing has revolutionized our world and brought mankind on the verge of enigmatic era of quantum technologies. Inspired by this idea, in present paper we search for advantages of quantum information processing in the field of machine learning. Exploiting only basic properties of the Hilbert space, superposition principle of quantum mechanics and quantum measurements, we construct a quantum analog for Rosenblatt's perceptron, which is the simplest learning machine. We demonstrate that the quantum perceptron superiors its classical counterpart in learning capabilities. In particular, we show that the quantum perceptron is able to learn an arbitrary (Boolean) logical function, perform the classification on previously unseen classes and even recognize the superpositions of learned classes -- the task of high importance in applied medical engineering.

id: 1210.6644
title: Scrambling speed of random quantum circuits
authors: Winton Brown, Omar Fawzi
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures. Superseded by this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6644
abstract: Random transformations are typically good at "scrambling" information. Specifically, in the quantum setting, scrambling usually refers to the process of mapping most initial pure product states under a unitary transformation to states which are macroscopically entangled, in the sense of being close to completely mixed on most subsystems containing a fraction fn of all n particles for some constant f. While the term scrambling is used in the context of the black hole information paradox, scrambling is related to problems involving decoupling in general, and to the question of how large isolated many-body systems reach local thermal equilibrium under their own unitary dynamics. Here, we study the speed at which various notions of scrambling/decoupling occur in a simplified but natural model of random two-particle interactions: random quantum circuits. For a circuit representing the dynamics generated by a local Hamiltonian, the depth of the circuit corresponds to time. Thus, we consider the depth of these circuits and we are typically interested in what can be done in a depth that is sublinear or even logarithmic in the size of the system. We resolve an outstanding conjecture raised in the context of the black hole information paradox with respect to the depth at which a typical quantum circuit generates an entanglement assisted encoding against the erasure channel. In addition, we prove that typical quantum circuits of poly(log n) depth satisfy a stronger notion of scrambling and can be used to encode alpha n qubits into n qubits so that up to beta n errors can be corrected, for some constants alpha, beta > 0.

id: 1210.6714
title: Complex spectral analysis and test function spaces
authors: Sungyun Kim
comments: 32 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6714
abstract: We consider complex eigenstates of unstable Hamiltonian and its physically meaningful regions. Starting from a simple model of a discrete state interacting with a continuum via a general potential, we show that its Lippmann-Schwinger solution set can be decomposed into a free-field set, a set containing lower half plane pole of Green's function and a set containing upper half pole of Green's function. From here distinctive complex eigenstates corresponding to each pole are constructed. We note that on the real line square integrable functions can be decomposed into Hardy class above and below functions which behave well in their respective complex half planes. Test function restriction formulas which remove unphysical growth are given. As a specific example we consider Friedrichs model which solutions and complex eigenstates are known, and compare numerically calculated total time evolution with test function restricted complex eigenstates for various cases. The results shows that test function restricted complex eigenstates capture the essence of decay phenomena quite well.

id: 1210.6715
title: Suggestion on Quantum Computer Circuits
authors: Helio V. Fagundes
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. In versions 2 and 3, third and second paragraphs augmented. In version 4, changed labels in Fig. 2. In version 4, first word (Pedagogical) removed from previous title; one example and one reference added; improvements on text; in this version, third example reworded and a mistake corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6715
abstract: For quantum computer circuits, it is proposed that they have, besides the presently used compact graphs, an expanded system of subgraphs, in line with the quantum mechanics superposition axiom. The representation of each process by these suggested graphs is equivalent to the algebraic notation of the process.

id: 1210.6742
title: Tests for quantum contextuality in terms of $q$-entropies
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 14 pages, two figures. The version 3 matches the journal version
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput., Vol. 14, 0996-1013 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6742
abstract: The information-theoretic approach to Bell's theorem is developed with use of the conditional $q$-entropies. The $q$-entropic measures fulfill many similar properties to the standard Shannon entropy. In general, both the locality and noncontextuality notions are usually treated with use of the so-called marginal scenarios. These hypotheses lead to the existence of a joint probability distribution, which marginalizes to all particular ones. Assuming the existence of such a joint probability distribution, we derive the family of inequalities of Bell's type in terms of conditional $q$-entropies for all $q\geq1$. Quantum violations of the new inequalities are exemplified within the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) and Klyachko-Can-Binicio\v{g}lu-Shumovsky (KCBS) scenarios. An extension to the case of $n$-cycle scenario is briefly mentioned. The new inequalities with conditional $q$-entropies allow to expand a class of probability distributions, for which the nonlocality or contextuality can be detected within entropic formulation. The $q$-entropic inequalities can also be useful in analyzing cases with detection inefficiencies. Using two models of such a kind, we consider some potential advantages of the $q$-entropic formulation.

id: 1210.6744
title: Quadrature Uncertainty and Information Entropy of Quantum Elliptical Vortex States
authors: Anindya Banerji, Prasanta K. Panigrahi, Ravindra Pratap Singh, Saurav Chowdhury, Abir Bandyopadhyay
comments: 7 pages, 9 figs., revtex, Some language change for clarity in this version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 225303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6744
abstract: We study the quadrature uncertainty of the quantum elliptical vortex state using the associated Wigner function. Deviations from the minimum uncertainty states were observed due to the absence of the Gaussian nature. In our study of the entropy, we noticed that with increasing vorticity, entropy increases for both the modes. We further observed that, there exists an optimum value of ellipticity which gives rise to maximum entanglement of the two modes of the quantum elliptical vortex states. A further increase in ellipticity reduces the entropy thereby resulting in a loss of information carrying capacity. We check the validity of the entropic inequality relations, namely the subaddivity and the Araki-Lieb inequality. The later was satisfied only for a very small range of the ellipticity of the vortex while the former seemed to be valid at all values.

id: 1210.6754
title: Preparation of NOON State Induced by Macroscopic Quantum Tunneling in an Ising Chain
authors: Chun-Li Zang, Jing Yu, Wan-Li Yang, Mang Feng, Su-Peng Kou
comments: 4.5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6754
abstract: In this brief report, we propose a possible way, theoretically and experimentally, to generate a NOON state of the two degenerate ferromagnetic ground states of the Transverse Ising Model. In our scheme we employ the macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) effect between the two degenerate ferromagnetic ground states to realize the NOON state. Our calculation about the MQT process is based on a higher-order degenerate perturbation method. After doing a transformation, the MQT process could also be treated as the hopping of individual virtual fermions in the spin chain, which will leads to an analytical description of tunneling process. The experimental feasibility for generating the NOON state is discussed in the setup of linear ion trap.

id: 1210.6772
title: Mode-mixing quantum gates and entanglement without particle creation in periodically accelerated cavities
authors: David Edward Bruschi, Jorma Louko, Daniele Faccio, Ivette Fuentes
comments: Ivette Fuentes previously published as Ivette Fuentes-Guridi and Ivette Fuentes-Schuller. v2: Quantitative analysis of entanglement production given in subsec IID
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 073052
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6772
abstract: We show that mode-mixing quantum gates can be produced by non-uniform relativistic acceleration. Periodic motion in cavities exhibits a series of resonant conditions producing entangling quantum gates between different frequency modes. The resonant condition associated with particle creation is the main feature of the dynamical Casimir effect which has been recently demonstrated in superconducting circuits. We show that a second resonance, which has attracted less attention since it implies negligible particle production, produces a beam splitting quantum gate leading to a resonant enhancement of entanglement which can be used as the first evidence of acceleration effects in mechanical oscillators. We propose a desktop experiment where the frequencies associated with this second resonance can be produced mechanically.

id: 1210.6782
title: Non-Adiabatic Holonomic Quantum Computation in Decoherence-Free Subspaces
authors: G. F. Xu, J. Zhang, D. M. Tong, Erik Sjoqvist, L. C. Kwek
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review Letters 109, 170501, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6782
abstract: Quantum computation that combines the coherence stabilization virtues of decoherence-free subspaces and the fault tolerance of geometric holonomic control is of great practical importance. Some schemes of adiabatic holonomic quantum computation in decoherence-free subspaces have been proposed in the past few years. However, non-adiabatic holonomic quantum computation in decoherence-free subspaces, which avoids long run-time requirement but with all the robust advantages, remains an open problem. Here, we demonstrate how to realize non-adiabatic holonomic quantum computation in decoherence-free subspaces. By using only three neighboring physical qubits undergoing collective dephasing to encode one logical qubit, we realize a universal set of quantum gates.

id: 1210.6830
title: Superluminal and Ultraslow Light Propagation in Optomechanical Systems
authors: Devrim Tarhan, Sumei Huang, Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu
comments: 6 pages, 10 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 013824 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6830
abstract: We consider an optomechanical double-ended cavity under the action of a coupling laser and a probe laser in electromagnetically induced transparency configuration. It is shown how the group delay and advance of the probe field can be controlled by the power of the coupling field. In contrast to single-ended cavities, only allowing for superluminal propagation, possibility of both superluminal and subluminal propagation regimes are found. The magnitudes of the group delay and the advance are calculated to be 1ms and -2s, respectively, at a very low pumping power of a few microwatts. In addition, interaction of the optomechanical cavity with a time dependent probe field is investigated for controlled excitations of mirror vibrations.

id: 1210.6870
title: Negative Probabilities, Fine's Theorem and Linear Positivity
authors: J.J.Halliwell, J.M.Yearsley
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure. Small changes, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6870
abstract: Many situations in quantum theory and other areas of physics lead to quasi-probabilities which seem to be physically useful but can be negative. The interpretation of such objects is not at all clear. In this paper, we show that quasi-probabilities naturally fall into two qualitatively different types, according to whether their non-negative marginals can or cannot be matched to a non-negative probability. The former type, which we call viable, are qualitatively similar to true probabilities, but the latter type, which we call non-viable, may not have a sensible interpretation. Determining the existence of a probability matching given marginals is a non-trivial question in general. In simple examples, Fine's theorem indicates that inequalities of the Bell and CHSH type provide criteria for its existence, and these examples are considered in detail. Our results have consequences for the linear positivity condition of Goldstein and Page in the context of the histories approach to quantum theory. Although it is a very weak condition for the assignment of probabilities it fails in some important cases where our results indicate that probabilities clearly exist. We speculate that our method, of matching probabilities to a given set of marginals, provides a general method of assigning probabilities to histories and we show that it passes the Di\'osi test for the statistical independence of subsystems.

id: 1210.6876
title: The structure of multidimensional entanglement in multipartite systems
authors: Marcus Huber, Julio I. de Vicente
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 030501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6876
abstract: We explore the structure of multipartite quantum systems which are entangled in multiple degrees of freedom. We find necessary and sufficient conditions for the characterization of tripartite systems and necessary conditions for any number number of parties. Furthermore we develop a framework of multi-level witnesses for efficient discrimination and quantification of multidimensional entanglement that is applicable for an arbitrary number of systems and dimensions.

id: 1210.6878
title: Asymmetric Architecture for Heralded Single Photon Sources
authors: Luca Mazzarella, Francesco Ticozzi, Alexander V. Sergienko, Giuseppe Vallone, Paolo Villoresi
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023848 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6878
abstract: Single photon source represent a fundamental building block for optical implementations of quantum information tasks ranging from basic tests of quantum physics to quantum communication and high-resolution quantum measurement. In this paper we investigate the performance of a multiplexed system based on asymmetric configuration of multiple heralded single photon sources. {To compare the effectiveness of different designs we introduce a single-photon source performance index that is based on the value of single photon probability required to achieve a guaranteed signal to noise ratio.} The performance and scalability comparison with both currently existing multiple-source architectures and faint laser configurations reveals an advantage the proposed scheme offers in realistic scenarios. This analysis also provides insights on the potential of using such architectures for integrated implementation.

id: 1210.6886
title: Practicality of spin chain 'wiring' in diamond quantum technologies
authors: Yuting Ping, Brendon W. Lovett, Simon C. Benjamin, Erik M. Gauger
comments: 5 pages (plus 5-page supplement)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 100503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6886
abstract: Coupled spin chains are promising candidates for 'wiring up' qubits in solid-state quantum computing (QC). In particular, two nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond can be connected by a chain of implanted nitrogen impurities; when driven by a suitable global fields the chain can potentially enable quantum state transfer at room temperature. However, our detailed analysis of error effects suggests that foreseeable systems may fall far short of the fidelities required for QC. Fortunately the chain can function in the more modest role as a mediator of noisy entanglement, enabling QC provided that we use subsequent purification. For instance, a chain of 5 spins with inter-spin distances of 10 nm has finite entangling power as long as the T2 time of the spins exceeds 0.55 ms. Moreover we show that re-purposing the chain this way can remove the restriction to nearest-neighbor interactions, so eliminating the need for complicated dynamical decoupling sequences.

id: 1210.6902
title: Semiclassical dynamics of a flux qubit coupled to a nanomechanical oscillator
authors: Lior Ella, Eyal Buks
comments: version 2: Minor typos and typography revisions. Version 3: Presentation extensively revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6902
abstract: We present a theory describing the semiclassical dynamics of a superconducting flux qubit inductively coupled to a nanomechanical oscillator. Focusing on the influence of the qubit on the mechanical element, and on the nonlinear phenomena displayed by this device, we show that it exhibits retardation effects and self-excited oscillations. These can be harnessed for the generation of non-classical states of the mechanical oscillator. In addition, we find that this system shares several fundamental properties with cavity optomechanical systems, and elucidate the analogy between these two classes of devices.

id: 1210.6928
title: Dynamics of the rotated Dicke model
authors: Michael Tomka, Vladimir Gritsev
comments: 23 pages, 41 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6928
abstract: We study quantum dynamics of the rotationally driven Dicke model where the collective spin is rotated around the z axis with a finite velocity. In the absence of the rotating wave approximation we observe that for several physically relevant initial states the position of the quantum critical point is shifted by the amount given by the applied rotation velocity. This allows us to probe the quantum criticality "from a distance" in parameter space without actual crossing of the quantum critical surface but instead by encircling it in the parameter space. This may provide a useful experimental hint since the quantum state is not destroyed by this protocol. Moreover, for the coherent initial state we observe an interesting non-equilibrium reentrant phenomenon of quantum critical behavior as a function of the driving velocity and construct a non-equilibrium phase diagram of the driven model.

id: 1210.6935
title: Three-photon bosonic coalescence in an integrated tritter
authors: Nicol¨° Spagnolo, Chiara Vitelli, Lorenzo Aparo, Paolo Mataloni, Fabio Sciarrino, Andrea Crespi, Roberta Ramponi, Roberto Osellame
comments: 7+13 pages, 5+5 figures
journal: Nature Communications 4:1606 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6935
abstract: The main features of quantum mechanics reside in interference deriving from the superposition of different quantum objects. While current quantum optical technology enables two-photon interference both in bulk and integrated systems, simultaneous interference of more than two particles, leading to richer quantum phenomena, is still a challenging task. Here we report the experimental observation of three-photon interference in an integrated three-port directional coupler realized by ultrafast laser-writing. By exploiting the capability of this technique to produce three-dimensional structures, we realized and tested in the quantum regime a three-port beam splitter, namely a tritter, which allowed us to observe bosonic coalescence of three photons. These results open new important perspectives in many areas of quantum information, such as fundamental tests of quantum mechanics with increasing number of photons, quantum state engineering, quantum sensing and quantum simulation.

id: 1210.6962
title: Quantum-to-classical rate distortion coding
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Mark M. Wilde, Andreas Winter
comments: 21 pages, 3 png figures, accepted for publication in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 54, 042201 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6962
abstract: We establish a theory of quantum-to-classical rate distortion coding. In this setting, a sender Alice has many copies of a quantum information source. Her goal is to transmit classical information about the source, obtained by performing a measurement on it, to a receiver Bob, up to some specified level of distortion. We derive a single-letter formula for the minimum rate of classical communication needed for this task. We also evaluate this rate in the case in which Bob has some quantum side information about the source. Our results imply that, in general, Alice's best strategy is a non-classical one, in which she performs a collective measurement on successive outputs of the source.

id: 1210.6971
title: Skew Information for a single Cooper Pair Box interacts with a single cavity Mode
authors: N. Metwally, A. Al-Mannai, M. Abdel-Aty
comments: 
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 59 769-772 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6971
abstract: The dynamics of the skew information (SI) is investigated for a single Cooper Pair Box,CPB interacts with a single cavity mode. The effect of the cavity and CPB's parameters on the SI is discussed. We show that, it is possible to increase the skew information to reach its maximum value either by increasing the number of photons inside the cavity or considering non-resonant case with larger detuning parameter. The effect of the relative ratio of Josephson junction capacity and the gate capacity is investigated, where the number of oscillations of the skew information increases by decreasing this ratio and consequently the travelling time between the maximum and minimum values decreases.

id: 1210.6977
title: Time Dependent Quantum Mechanics
authors: Peter G. Morrison
comments: 34 pages, 581 equations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6977
abstract: We present a systematic method for dealing with time dependent quantum dynamics, based on the quantum brachistochrone and matrix mechanics. We derive the explicit time dependence of the Hamiltonian operator for a number of constrained finite systems from this formalism. Once this has been achieved we go on to calculate the wavevector as a function of time, in order to demonstrate the use of matrix methods with respect to several concrete examples. Interesting results are derived for elliptic curves and periodic orbits on higher dimensional non-commutative geometries.

id: 1210.7011
title: Process verification of two-qubit quantum gates by randomized benchmarking
authors: A. D. C¨®rcoles, Jay M. Gambetta, Jerry M. Chow, John A. Smolin, Matthew Ware, J. D. Strand, B. L. T. Plourde, M. Steffen
comments: 4 figures plus supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 030301(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7011
abstract: We implement a complete randomized benchmarking protocol on a system of two superconducting qubits. The protocol consists of randomizing over gates in the Clifford group, which experimentally are generated via an improved two-qubit cross-resonance gate implementation and single-qubit unitaries. From this we extract an optimal average error per Clifford of 0.0936. We also perform an interleaved experiment, alternating our optimal two-qubit gate with random two-qubit Clifford gates, to obtain a two-qubit gate error of 0.0653. We compare these values with a two-qubit gate error of ~0.12 obtained from quantum process tomography, which is likely limited by state preparation and measurement errors.

id: 1210.7051
title: Multiple path transport in quantum networks
authors: Geva Arwas, Doron Cohen
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, with much more details, JPA accepted version
journal: J. Phys. A 46, 165101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7051
abstract: We find an exact expression for the current ($I$) that flows via a tagged bond from a site ("dot") whose potential ($u$) is varied in time. We show that the analysis reduces to that of calculating time dependent probabilities, as in the stochastic formulation, but with splitting (branching) ratios that are not bounded within $[0,1]$. Accordingly our result can be regarded as a multiple-path version of the continuity equation. It generalizes results that have been obtained from adiabatic transport theory in the context of quantum "pumping" and "stirring". Our approach allows to address the adiabatic regime, as well as the Slow and Fast non-adiabatic regimes, on equal footing. We emphasize aspects that go beyond the familiar picture of sequential Landau-Zener crossings, taking into account Wigner-type mixing of the energy levels.

id: 1210.7077
title: Multipartite entanglement purification for three-level trapped atom systems
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Jiong Liu, Sheng-Yang Zhao
comments: 11pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7077
abstract: We describe an entanglement purification protocol (EPP) for multipartite three-level atomic entangled pair using photonic Faraday rotation. In this EPP, the multipartite atomic entangled state can be purified with the help of some single photons. This protocol resorts to the photonic Faraday rotation to realize the function of the controlled-Not (CNOT) gate. The purified multipartite atomic entangled state can be retained and to be repeated to reach a higher fidelity.

id: 1210.7127
title: Modeling and Control of Quantum Systems: An Introduction
authors: Claudio Altafini, Francesco Ticozzi
comments: tutorial/review paper, 20 pages, 1 figure. Included in the IEEE Trans. Aut. Contr. special issue on quantum control
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 57(8):1898--1917, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7127
abstract: The scope of this work is to provide a self-contained introduction to a selection of basic theoretical aspects in the modeling and control of quantum mechanical systems, as well as a brief survey on the main approaches to control synthesis. While part of the existing theory, especially in the open-loop setting, stems directly from classical control theory (most notably geometric control and optimal control), a number of tools specifically tailored for quantum systems have been developed since the 1980s, in order to take into account their distinctive features: the probabilistic nature of atomic-scale physical systems, the effect of dissipation and the irreversible character of the measurements have all proved to be critical in feedback-design problems. The relevant dynamical models for both closed and open quantum systems are presented, along with the main results on their controllability and stability. A brief review of several currently available control design methods is meant to provide the interested reader with a roadmap for further studies.

id: 1210.7216
title: Noise effects in perfect transmission of quantum states
authors: Fabio Benatti, Roberto Floreanini, Vahid Karimipour
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, the version to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062335 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7216
abstract: A recent scheme for perfect transmission of quantum states through quasi-one dimensional chains requires application of global control at regular intervals of time. We study the effect of stochastic noise in this control and find that the scheme is robust for reasonable values of disorder. Both un-correlated and correlated noise in the external control are studied and it is remarkably found that the efficiency of the protocol is much higher in presence of correlated noise.

id: 1210.7245
title: Long-distance Entanglement generation by Local Rotational Protocols in spin chains
authors: Morteza Rafiee, Hossein Mokhtari
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7245
abstract: We exploit the inherent entanglement of the ground state of a spin chain with dimerized XX or XXZ Hamiltonian to investigate the entanglement generation between the ends of the chain. We follow the strategy has been introduced in Ref. [14] to encode the information in the entangled ground state of the system by local rotation. The amount of achieved entanglement in this scheme is higher than the attaching a pair of maximally entanglement scenarios. Also, our proposal can be implemented by using the optical lattices.

id: 1210.7256
title: Resonant quantum kicked rotor with two internal levels
authors: Guzm¨¢n Hern¨¢ndez, Alejandro Romanelli
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7256
abstract: We develop a system consisting of a quantum kicked rotor with an additional degree of freedom. This models a single two-level atom with internal ground and excited states, and it is characterized by its quantum resonances with ballistic spreading and by the entanglement between the internal and momentum degrees of freedom. These behaviors establish an equivalence between our model and the usual quantum walk on the line.

id: 1210.7265
title: The Pilot-Wave Perspective on Quantum Scattering and Tunneling
authors: Travis Norsen
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: American Journal of Physics, 81, 258 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7265
abstract: The de Broglie - Bohm "pilot-wave" theory replaces the paradoxical wave-particle duality of ordinary quantum theory with a more mundane and literal kind of duality: each individual photon or electron comprises a quantum wave (evolving in accordance with the usual quantum mechanical wave equation) and a particle that, under the influence of the wave, traces out a definite trajectory. The definite particle trajectory allows the theory to account for the results of experiments without the usual recourse to additional dynamical axioms about measurements. Instead one need simply assume that particle detectors click when particles arrive at them. This alternative understanding of quantum phenomena is illustrated here for two elementary textbook examples of one-dimensional scattering and tunneling. We introduce a novel approach to reconciling standard textbook calculations (made using unphysical plane-wave states) with the need to treat such phenomena in terms of normalizable wave packets. This allows for a simple but illuminating analysis of the pilot-wave theory's particle trajectories, and an explicit demonstration of the equivalence of the pilot-wave theory predictions with those of ordinary quantum theory.

id: 1210.7278
title: Maximizing genuine multipartite entanglement of N mixed qubits
authors: S. Agarwal, S.M. Hashemi Rafsanjani
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. 11, 1350043 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7278
abstract: Beyond the simplest case of bipartite qubits, the composite Hilbert space of multipartite systems is largely unexplored. In order to explore such systems, it is important to derive analytic expressions for parameters which characterize the system's state space. Two such parameters are the degree of genuine multipartite entanglement and the degree of mixedness of the system's state. We explore these two parameters for an N-qubit system whose density matrix has an X form. We derive the class of states that has the maximum amount of genuine multipartite entanglement for a given amount of mixedness. We compare our results with the existing results for the N=2 case. The critical amount of mixedness above which no N-qubit X-state possesses genuine multipartite entanglement is derived. It is found that as N increases, states with higher mixedness can still be entangled.

id: 1210.7302
title: Information transfer and orthogonality speed via pulsed-driven qubit
authors: N. Metwally, S. S.Hassan
comments: Accepted in " Nonlinear Optics, Quantum Optics: Concepts in Modern Optics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7302
abstract: We investigate the transfer and exchange information between a single qubit system excited by a rectangular pulse. The dynamics of the system is treated within and outside rotating wave approximation (RWA). The initial state of the qubit plays an important role for sending information with high fidelity. Within RWA, and as the fidelity of the transformed information increases the exchange information with the environment increases. For increasing values of atomic detuning, the fidelity decreases faster and the exchange information has an upper limit. Outside RWA,the fidelity of the transformed information increases as one increases the perturbation parameter. However the exchange information is very high compared with that within RWA. The orthogonality speed of the travelling qubit is investigated for different classes of initial atomic state settings and field parameters.

id: 1210.7308
title: Quantum correlations in Newtonian space and time: arbitrarily fast communication or nonlocality
authors: Nicolas Gisin
comments: It is an honor to dedicate this article to Yakir Aharonov, the master of quantum paradoxes. Version 2 contains some more references and a clarified conclusion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7308
abstract: We investigate possible explanations of quantum correlations that satisfy the principle of continuity, which states that everything propagates gradually and continuously through space and time. In particular, following [J.D. Bancal et al, Nature Physics 2012], we show that any combination of local common causes and direct causes satisfying this principle, i.e. propagating at any finite speed, leads to signalling. This is true even if the common and direct causes are allowed to propagate at a supraluminal-but-finite speed defined in a Newtonian-like privileged universal reference frame. Consequently, either there is supraluminal communication or the conclusion that Nature is nonlocal (i.e. discontinuous) is unavoidable.

id: 1210.7336
title: Addressing Two-Level Systems Variably Coupled to an Oscillating Field
authors: Nir Navon, Shlomi Kotler, Nitzan Akerman, Yinnon Glickman, Ido Almog, Roee Ozeri
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 073001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7336
abstract: We propose a simple method to spectrally resolve single-spins in a cold atomic system, thus realizing single-spin addressing. This scheme uses a dressing field with a spatially-dependent coupling to the atoms. We realize this scheme experimentally using a linear chain of trapped ions that are separated by $\sim3$ $\mu$m, dressed by a laser field that is resonant with the micromotion sideband of a narrow optical transition.

id: 1210.7339
title: Multipartite Quantum Eraser
authors: R. Rossi Jr, J. P. Souza, L. A. M. de Souza, M. C. Nemes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7339
abstract: We study the dynamical entanglement distribution in a multipartite system. The initial state is a maximally entangled two level atom with a single photon field. Next a sequence of atoms are sent, one at the time, and interact with the field. We show that the which way information initially stored only in the field is now distributed among the parties of the global system. We obtain the corresponding complementarity relations in analytical form. We show that this dynamics may lead to a quantum eraser phenomenon provided that measurements of the probe atoms are performed in a basis which maximizes the visibility. The process may be realized in microwave cavities with present technology.

id: 1210.7366
title: Decomposition of unitary matrices and quantum gates
authors: Chi-Kwong Li, Rebecca Roberts, Xiaoyan Yin
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7366
abstract: A general scheme is presented to decompose a $d$-by-$d$ unitary matrix as the product of two-level unitary matrices with additional structure and prescribed determinants. In particular, the decomposition can be done by using two-level matrices in $d-1$ classes, where each class is isomorphic to the group of $2\times 2$ unitary matrices. The proposed scheme is easy to apply, and useful in treating problems with the additional structural restrictions. A Matlab program is written to implement the scheme, and the result is used to deduce the fact that every quantum gate acting on $n$-qubit registers can be expressed as no more than $2^{n-1}(2^n-1)$ fully controlled single-qubit gates chosen from $2^n-1$ classes, where the quantum gates in each class share the same $n-1$ control qubits. Moreover, it is shown that it is easy to adjust the proposed decomposition scheme to take advantage of additional structure evolving in the process.

id: 1210.7416
title: Solutions of the Dirac Equation in a Magnetic Field and Intertwining Operators
authors: Alonso Contreras-Astorga, David J. Fern¨¢ndez C., Javier Negro
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 082, 10 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7416
abstract: The intertwining technique has been widely used to study the Schr\"odinger equation and to generate new Hamiltonians with known spectra. This technique can be adapted to find the bound states of certain Dirac Hamiltonians. In this paper the system to be solved is a relativistic particle placed in a magnetic field with cylindrical symmetry whose intensity decreases as the distance to the symmetry axis grows and its field lines are parallel to the $x-y$ plane. It will be shown that the Hamiltonian under study turns out to be shape invariant.

id: 1210.7419
title: Quantitative analysis of quantum dot dynamics and emission spectra in cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: K. H. Madsen, P. Lodahl
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, submitted
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 025013 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7419
abstract: We present detuning-dependent spectral and decay-rate measurements to study the difference between spectral and dynamical properties of single quantum dots embedded in micropillar and photonic-crystal cavities. For the micropillar cavity, the dynamics is well described by the dissipative Jaynes-Cummings model, while systematic deviations are observed for the emission spectra. The discrepancy for the spectra is attributed to coupling of other exciton lines to the cavity and interference of different propagation paths towards the detector of the fields emitted by the quantum dot. In contrast, quantitative information about the system can readily be extracted from the dynamical measurements. In the case of photonic crystal cavities we observe an anti crossing in the spectra when detuning a single quantum dot through resonance, which is the spectral signature of strong coupling. However, time-resolved measurements reveal that the actual coupling strength is significantly smaller than anticipated from the spectral measurements and that the quantum dot is rather weakly coupled to the cavity. We suggest that the observed Rabi splitting is due to cavity feeding by other quantum dots and/or multiexcition complexes giving rise to collective emission effects.

id: 1210.7450
title: Ancilla-Driven Universal Blind Quantum Computation
authors: Takahiro Sueki, Takeshi Koshiba, Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 4 pages, 9 figures, the revision for improving the readability
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 060301 (R), 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7450
abstract: Blind quantum computation is a new quantum secure protocol, which enables Alice who does not have enough quantum technology to delegate her computation to Bob who has a fully-fledged quantum power without revealing her input, output and algorithm. So far, blind quantum computation has been considered only for the circuit model and the measurement-based model. Here we consider the possibility and the limitation of blind quantum computation in the ancilla-driven model, which is a hybrid of the circuit and the measurement-based models.

id: 1210.7492
title: Unveiling the Hanbury Brown and Twiss effect through Renyi entropy correlations
authors: Sammy Ragy, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. To appear in Physica Scripta, Proceedings of CEWQO-2012
journal: Phys. Scr. T153, 014052 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7492
abstract: Adopting a quantum information perspective, we analyse the correlations in the thermal light beams used to demonstrate the Hanbury Brown and Twiss effect. We find that the total correlations measured by the Renyi mutual information match the normalised intensity correlations in the regime of low source intensity. Genuine quantum correlations in the form of discord are relevant in such regime but get washed out with increasing source intensity. This provides a new angle on the issue about the nature--quantum versus classical--of the effect.

id: 1210.7522
title: Nuclear Spins as Quantum Testbeds: Singlet States, Quantum Correlations, and Delayed-choice Experiments
authors: Soumya Singha Roy
comments: PhD Thesis, 193 pages, 49 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7522
abstract: Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) forms a natural test-bed to perform quantum information processing (QIP) and has so far proven to be one of the most successful quantum information processors. The nuclear spins in a molecule treated as quantum bits or qubits which are the basic building blocks of a quantum computer. The development of NMR over half a century puts it in a platform where we can utilize its excellent control techniques over an ensemble of spin systems and perform quantum computation in a highly controlled way. Apart from a successful quantum information processor, NMR is also a highly powerful quantum platform where many of the potentially challenging quantum mechanical experiments can be performed.

id: 1210.7536
title: The physics of exceptional points
authors: W.D. Heiss
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 444016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7536
abstract: A short resume is given about the nature of exceptional points (EPs) followed by discussions about their ubiquitous occurrence in a great variety of physical problems. EPs feature in classical as well as in quantum mechanical problems. They are associated with symmetry breaking for ${\cal PT}$-symmetric Hamiltonians, where a great number of experiments have been performed in particular in optics, and to an increasing extent in atomic and molecular physics. EPs are involved in quantum phase transition and quantum chaos, they produce dramatic effects in multichannel scattering, specific time dependence and more. In nuclear physics they are associated with instabilities and continuum problems. Being spectral singularities they also affect approximation schemes.

id: 1210.7556
title: Direct and full-scale experimental verifications towards ground-satellite quantum key distribution
authors: Jian-Yu Wang, Bin Yang, Sheng-Kai Liao, Liang Zhang, Qi Shen, Xiao-Fang Hu, Jin-Cai Wu, Shi-Ji Yang, Hao Jiang, Yan-Lin Tang, Bo Zhong, Hao Liang, Wei-Yue Liu, Yi-Hua Hu, Yong-Mei Huang, Bo Qi, Ji-Gang Ren, Ge-Sheng Pan, Juan Yin, Jian-Jun Jia, Yu-Ao Chen, Kai Chen, Chen-Zhi Peng, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7556
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD), provides the only intrinsically unconditional secure method for communication based on principle of quantum mechanics. Compared with fiber-based demonstrations-, free-space links could provide the most appealing solution for much larger distance. Despite of significant efforts, so far all realizations rely on stationary sites. Justifications are therefore extremely crucial for applications via a typical Low Earth Orbit Satellite (LEOS). To achieve direct and full-scale verifications, we demonstrate here three independent experiments with a decoy-state QKD system overcoming all the demanding conditions. The system is operated in a moving platform through a turntable, a floating platform through a hot-air balloon, and a huge loss channel, respectively, for substantiating performances under rapid motion, attitude change, vibration, random movement of satellites and in high-loss regime. The experiments cover expanded ranges for all the leading parameters of LEOS. Our results pave the way towards ground-satellite QKD and global quantum communication network.

id: 1210.7564
title: A toy model for Macroscopic Quantum Coherence
authors: R. Mu?oz-Vega, Jos¨¦-Job J. Flores-Godoy, G. Fern¨¢ndez-Anaya, Encarnaci¨®n Salinas-Hern¨¢ndez
comments: 30 pages, 12 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7564
abstract: The present article deals with Macroscopic Quantum Coherence resorting only to basic quantum mechanics. A square double well is used to illustrate the Leggett-Caldeira oscillations. The effect of thermal-radiation on two-level systems is discussed to some extent. The concept of decoherence is introduced at an elementary level. Handles are deduced for the energy, temperature and time scales involved in Macroscopic Quantum Coherence.

id: 1210.7633
title: Equilibration of quantum hard rods in one dimension
authors: S. Ji, C. Ates, J. P. Garrahan, I. Lesanovsky
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P02005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7633
abstract: We study the out-of-equilibrium evolution of a strongly interacting quantum spin chain which is mapped on a system of hard rods that are coherently deposited on and removed from a lattice. We show that this closed quantum system approaches an equilibrium steady state which strongly resembles a microcanonical ensemble of classical hard rods. Starting from the fully coherent evolution equation we derive a Master equation for the evolution of the number of hard rods on the lattice. This equation does not only capture properties of the equilibrium state but also describes the dynamical non-equilibrium evolution into it for the majority of initial conditions. We analyze this in detail for hard rods of varying size.

id: 1210.7645
title: Variational approach to the time-dependent Schr?dinger-Newton equations
authors: Giovanni Manfredi, Paul-Antoine Hervieux, Fernando Haas
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: G. Manfredi, P.-A. Hervieux, F. Haas, Class. Quantum Grav. 30, 075006 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7645
abstract: Using a variational approach based on a Lagrangian formulation and Gaussian trial functions, we derive a simple dynamical system that captures the main features of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger-Newton equations. With little analytical or numerical effort, the model furnishes information on the ground state density and energy eigenvalue, the linear frequencies, as well as the nonlinear long-time behaviour. Our results are in good agreement with those obtained through analytical estimates or numerical simulations of the full Schr\"odinger-Newton equations.

id: 1210.7659
title: The Objective Indefiniteness Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: David Ellerman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Logic (math.LO); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7659
abstract: The common-sense view of reality is expressed logically in Boolean subset logic (each element is either definitely in or not in a subset, i.e., either definitely has or does not have a property). But quantum mechanics does not agree with this "properties all the way down" picture of micro-reality. Are there other coherent alternative views of reality? A logic of partitions, dual to the Boolean logic of subsets (partitions are dual to subsets), was recently developed along with a logical version of information theory. In view of the subset-partition duality, partition logic is the alternative to Boolean subset logic and thus it abstractly describes the alternative dual view of micro-reality. Perhaps QM is compatible with this dual view? Indeed, when the mathematics of partitions using sets is "lifted" from sets to vector spaces, then it yields the mathematics and relations of quantum mechanics. Thus the vision of micro-reality abstractly characterized by partition logic matches that described by quantum mechanics. The key concept explicated by partition logic is the old idea of "objective indefiniteness" (emphasized by Shimony). Thus partition logic, logical information theory, and the lifting program provide the back story so that the old idea then yields the objective indefiniteness interpretation of quantum mechanics.

id: 1210.7673
title: A new method to construct families of complex Hadamard matrices in even dimensions
authors: D. Goyeneche
comments: Improved version. Published in JMP. 29 pages, no figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 032201 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7673
abstract: We present a new method for constructing affine families of complex Hadamard matrices in every even dimension. This method has an intersection with the Di\c{t}\u{a} construction and it generalizes the Sz\"oll\H{o}si's method. We reproduce well-known results, extend some families and present new families of complex Hadamard matrices in even dimensions. In particular, found more than 13 millon inequivalent affine families of complex Hadamard matrices in dimension 32. We also find analytical restrictions for any set of four mutually unbiased bases existing in dimension six.

id: 1210.7687
title: Extended Weyl-Heisenberg algebra, phase operator, unitary depolarizers and generalized Bell states
authors: M. Daoud, E. H. El Kinani
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2011) 2492
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7687
abstract: Finite dimensional representations of extended Weyl-Heisenberg algebra are studied both from mathematical and applied viewpoints. They are used to define unitary phase operator and the corresponding eigenstates (phase states). It is also shown that the unitary depolarizers can be constructed in a general setting in terms of phase operators. Generation of generalized Bell states using the phase operator is presented and their expressions in terms of the elements of mutually unbiased bases are given.

id: 1210.7689
title: Bipartite and Tripartite Entanglement of Truncated Harmonic Oscillator Coherent States via Beam Splitters
authors: M. Daoud, A. Jellal, E. B. Choubabi, E. H. El Kinani
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 325301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7689
abstract: We introduce a special class of truncated Weyl-Heisenberg algebra and discuss the corresponding Hilbertian and analytical representations. Subsequently, we study the effect of a quantum network of beam splitting on coherent states of this nonlinear class of harmonic oscillators. We particularly focus on quantum networks involving one and two beam splitters and examine the degree of bipartite as well as tripartite entanglement using the linear entropy.

id: 1210.7694
title: Bipartite entanglement of multipartite coherent states using quantum network of beam splitters
authors: M. Daoud, E. B. Choubabi
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 10 (2012) 1250009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7694
abstract: We investigate the generation of multipartite entangled SU(k+1) coherent states using a quantum network involving a sequence of k beam splitters. We particularly investigate the entanglement in multipartite SU(2) coherent states (k = 1). We employ the concurrence as measure of the degree of bipartite entanglement.

id: 1210.7701
title: NMR quantum gate factorization through canonical cosets
authors: Renan Cabrera, Denys I. Bondar, Herschel A. Rabitz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7701
abstract: The block canonical coset decomposition is developed as a universal algorithmic tool to synthesize n-qubit quantum gates out of experimentally realizable NMR elements. The two-, three-, and four-qubit quantum Fourier transformations are worked out as examples. The proposed decomposition bridges the state of the art numerical analysis with NMR quantum gate synthesis.

id: 1210.7710
title: Geometry of Matrix Product States: metric, parallel transport and curvature
authors: Jutho Haegeman, Micha?l Mari?n, Tobias J. Osborne, Frank Verstraete
comments: 80 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7710
abstract: We study the geometric properties of the manifold of states described as (uniform) matrix product states. Due to the parameter redundancy in the matrix product state representation, matrix product states have the mathematical structure of a (principal) fiber bundle. The total space or bundle space corresponds to the parameter space, i.e. the space of tensors associated to every physical site. The base manifold is embedded in Hilbert space and can be given the structure of a K\"ahler manifold by inducing the Hilbert space metric. Our main interest is in the states living in the tangent space to the base manifold, which have recently been shown to be interesting in relation to time dependence and elementary excitations. By lifting these tangent vectors to the (tangent space) of the bundle space using a well-chosen prescription (a principal bundle connection), we can define and efficiently compute an inverse metric, and introduce differential geometric concepts such as parallel transport (related to the Levi-Civita connection) and the Riemann curvature tensor.

id: 1210.7769
title: Ultracold bosons in one-dimensional harmonic and multi-well traps: a Quantum Monte Carlo vs a correlated pair approach
authors: Ioannis Brouzos, Fotios K. Diakonos, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7769
abstract: We study the crossover of a finite one-dimensional (1D) bosonic ensemble from weak to strong interactions in harmonic traps and multi-well potentials. Although these systems are very common in experimental setups and have been studied theoretically, an analytical description is lacking. We perform Diffusion Quantum Monte Carlo calculations which we show to be in good agreement with results from analytical functions that we construct to describe these systems. For the harmonic trap we use the correlated-pair wave function which we introduced in [1] considering here much larger atom numbers, going beyond the few-body ensembles studied in \cite{brouzos}. We also investigate double and triple wells, changing correspondingly the uncorrelated part of the Ansatz to describe efficiently the single-particle behaviour. On-site effects beyond mean-field and standard Bose-Hubbard calculations that appear in densities being captured by our analytical functions are explored.

id: 1210.7964
title: Three dimensional quantum key distribution in the presence of several eavesdroppers
authors: M. Daoud, H. Ez-zahraouy
comments: 
journal: Physica Scripta 84 045018 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7964
abstract: Quantum key distribution based on encoding in three dimensional systems in the presence of several eavesdroppers is proposed. This extends the BB84 protocol in the presence of many eavesdroppers where two-level quantum systems (qubits) are replaced by three-level systems (qutrits). We discuss the scenarios involving two, three and four complementary bases. We derive the explicit form of Alice and Bob mutual information and the information gained by each eavesdropper. In particular, we show that, in the presence of only one eavesdropper, the protocol involving four bases is safer than the other ones. However, for two eavesdroppers, the security is strongly dependent on the attack probabilities. The effect of a large number of eavesdroppers is also investigated.

id: 1210.7966
title: Entangled Phase States via Quantum Beam Splitter
authors: M. Daoud, E. B. Choubabi
comments: 
journal: Optics Communications 284 (2011) 4535
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7966
abstract: We study the entanglement effect of beam splitter on the temporally stable phase states. Specifically, we consider the eigenstates (phase states) of an unitary phase operator resulting from the polar decomposition of ladder operators of generalized Weyl--Heisenberg algebras possessing finite dimensional representation space. The linear entropy that measures the degree of entanglement at the output of the beam splitter is analytically obtained. We find that the entanglement is not only strongly dependent on the Hilbert space dimension but also quite related to strength the parameter ensuring the temporal stability of the phase states. Finally, we discuss the evolution of the entangled phase states.

id: 1210.7972
title: Robust control pulses design for electron shuttling in solid state devices
authors: Jun Zhang, Loren Greenman, Xiaotian Deng, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7972
abstract: In this paper we study robust pulse design for electron shuttling in solid state devices. This is crucial for many practical applications of coherent quantum mechanical systems. Our objective is to design control pulses that can transport an electron along a chain of donors, and also make this process robust to parameter uncertainties. We formulate it as a set of optimal control problems on the special unitary group SU(n), and derive explicit expressions for the gradients of the aggregate transfer fidelity. Numerical results for a donor chain of ionized phosphorus atoms in bulk silicon demonstrate the efficacy of our algorithm.

id: 1210.8007
title: Error-transparent evolution: the ability of multi-body interactions to bypass decoherence
authors: Os Vy, Xiaoting Wang, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 7 pages, revtex4-1, 1 png figure
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 053002 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8007
abstract: We observe that multi-body interactions, unlike two-body interactions, can implement any unitary operation on an encoded system in such a way that the evolution is uninterrupted by noise that the encoding is designed to protect against. Such "error-transparent" evolution is distinct from that usually considered in quantum computing, as the latter is merely correctable. We prove that the minimum body-ness required to protect i) a qubit from a single type of Pauli error, ii) a target qubit from a controller with such errors, iii) a single qubit from all errors, is 3-body, 4-body, and 5-body respectively. We also discuss applications to computing, coherent-feedback control, and quantum metrology. Finally we evaluate the performance of error-transparent evolution for some examples using numerical simulations.

id: 1210.8008
title: A solenoidal synthetic field and the non-Abelian Aharonov-Bohm effects in neutral atoms
authors: Ming-Xia Huo, Nie Wei, David A.W. Hutchinson, Leong Chuan Kwek
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 4: 5992 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8008
abstract: Cold neutral atoms provide a versatile and controllable platform for emulating various quantum systems. Despite efforts to develop artificial gauge fields in these systems, realizing a unique ideal-solenoid-shaped magnetic field within the quantum domain in any real-world physical system remains elusive. Here we propose a scheme to generate a "hairline" solenoid with an extremely small size around 1 micrometer which is smaller than the typical coherence length in cold atoms. Correspondingly, interference effects will play a role in transport. Despite the small size, the magnetic flux imposed on the atoms is very large thanks to the very strong field generated inside the solenoid. By arranging different sets of Laguerre-Gauss (LG) lasers, the generation of Abelian and non-Abelian SU(2) lattice gauge fields is proposed for neutral atoms in ring- and square-shaped optical lattices. As an application, interference patterns of the magnetic type-I Aharonov-Bohm (AB) effect are obtained by evolving atoms along a circle over several tens of lattice cells. During the evolution, the quantum coherence is maintained and the atoms are exposed to a large magnetic flux. The scheme requires only standard optical access, and is robust to weak particle interactions.

id: 1210.8022
title: Measuring Quantum Correlations using Lossy Photon-Number-Resolving Detectors with Saturation
authors: Si-Hui Tan, Leonid A. Krivitsky, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8022
abstract: The variance of difference of photocounts is an established measure of quantum correlations for quantum states of light. It enables us to discriminate between the classical correlation of a two-mode coherent state and the quantum correlation of a twin-beam state. We study the effect of loss and saturation of the photon-number-resolving detector on the measurement of the variance of difference of photocounts. An analytic function is derived for this variance, both for the coherent and the twin-beam states. It is found that the variance of difference of photocounts is no longer a reliable entanglement measure in the non-linear regime of the detector response but it remains useful in some range of values of average photon numbers of the incident light. We also quantify the linear regime of the detector with saturation which will be useful for calibration of the detector quantum efficiency.

id: 1210.8037
title: Measurement-Device-Independent Entanglement Witnesses for All Entangled Quantum States
authors: Cyril Branciard, Denis Rosset, Yeong-Cherng Liang, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 060405 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8037
abstract: The problem of demonstrating entanglement is central to quantum information processing applications. Resorting to standard entanglement witnesses requires one to perfectly trust the implementation of the measurements to be performed on the entangled state, which may be an unjustified assumption. Inspired by the recent work of F. Buscemi [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 200401 (2012)], we introduce the concept of Measurement-Device-Independent Entanglement Witnesses (MDI-EWs), which allow one to demonstrate entanglement of all entangled quantum states with untrusted measurement apparatuses. We show how to systematically obtain such MDI-EWs from standard entanglement witnesses. Our construction leads to MDI-EWs that are loss-tolerant, and can be implemented with current technology.

id: 1210.8042
title: Long-distance quantum key distribution with imperfect devices
authors: Nicol¨® Lo Piparo, Mohsen Razavi
comments: 28 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8042
abstract: Quantum key distribution over probabilistic quantum repeaters is addressed. We compare, under practical assumptions, two such schemes in terms of their secure key generation rates per quantum memory. The two schemes under investigation are the one proposed by Duan et al. in [Nat. 414, 413 (2001)] and that of Sangouard et al. in [Phys. Rev. A 76, 050301 (2007)]. We consider various sources of imperfection in both protocols, such as nonzero double-photon probabilities at the sources, dark counts in detectors, and ine?ciencies in the channel, photodetectors and memories. We also consider memory decay and dephasing processes in our analysis. For the latter system, we determine the maximum value of the double-photon probability beyond which secretkey distillation is not possible. We also ?nd the crossover distance beyond which the repeater schemes outperform the non-repeater ones. We ?nally compare the two protocols in terms of their achievable secret key generation rates at their optimal settings

id: 1210.8063
title: Non-Equilibrium Quantum Dynamics of Ultra-Cold Atomic Mixtures: the Multi-Layer Multi-Configuration Time-Dependent Hartree Method for Bosons
authors: Sven Kr?nke, Lushuai Cao, Oriol Vendrell, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 063018 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8063
abstract: We develop and apply the multi-layer multi-configuration time-dependent Hartree method for bosons, which represents an ab initio method for investigating the non-equilibrium quantum dynamics of multi-species bosonic systems. Its multi-layer feature allows for tailoring the wave function ansatz in order to describe intra- and inter-species correlations accurately and efficiently. To demonstrate the beneficial scaling and the efficiency of the method, we explore the correlated tunneling dynamics of two species with repulsive intra- and inter-species interactions, to which a third species with vanishing intra-species interaction is weakly coupled. The population imbalances of the first two species can feature a temporal equilibration and their time-evolution significantly depends on the coupling to the third species. Bosons of the first and of the second species exhibit a bunching tendency, whose strength can be influenced by their coupling to the third species.

id: 1210.8079
title: Witnessing non-Markovianity of quantum evolution
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 5 pages
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2014) 68: 7
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8079
abstract: We provide further characterization of non-Markovian quantum dynamics based on the concept of divisible dynamical maps. In analogy to entanglement witness we propose a non-Markovianity witness and introduce the corresponding measure of non-Markovianity. We also provide characterization of non-Markovianity in terms of entropic quantities, fidelity and Wigner-Yanase-Dyson skew information.

id: 1210.8110
title: The problem of time and the problem of quantum measurement
authors: Tejinder P. Singh
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, based on a talk given at Quantum Malta 2012, submitted to the volume The Forgotten Present (running title) Thomas Filk and Albrecht von Muller [Eds.]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8110
abstract: Quantum theory depends on an external classical time, and there ought to exist an equivalent reformulation of the theory which does not depend on such a time. The demand for the existence of such a reformulation suggests that quantum theory is an approximation to a stochastic non-linear theory. The stochastic non-linearity provides a dynamical explanation for the collapse of the wave-function during a quantum measurement. Hence the problem of time and the measurement problem are related to each other: the search for a solution for the former problem naturally implies a solution for the latter problem.

id: 1210.8173
title: On mutually unbiased bases: Passing from d to d**2
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8173
abstract: We show how to transform the problem of finding d+1 mutually unbiased bases in the d-dimensional Hilbert space into the one of finding d(d+1) vectors in the N-dimensional Hilbert space with N=d**2. The transformation formulas admit a solution when d is a prime number.

id: 1210.8238
title: Notes on teleportation in an expanding space
authors: Jun Feng, Wen-Li Yang, Yao-Zhong Zhang, Heng Fan
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, typos corrected. To appear in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Physics Letters B 719 (2013) 430
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8238
abstract: We investigate the quantum teleportation between a conformal detector Alice and an inertial detector Bob in de Sitter space in two schemes, (i) one uses free scalar modes and (ii) one utilizes cavity to store qubit. We show that the fidelity of the teleportation is degraded for Bob in both cases. While the fidelity-loss is due to the Gibbons-Hawking effect associated with his cosmological horizon in the scheme (i), the entanglement decreases in the scheme (ii) because the ability to entangle the cavities is reduced by the spacetime curvature. With a cutoff at Planck-scale, comparing with the standard Bunch-Davies choice, we also show that the possible Planckian physics cause extra modifications to the fidelity of the teleportation protocol in both schemes.

id: 1210.8240
title: The Kerr medium as an {\sf SU(2)} system
authors: K. V. S. Shiv Chaitanya, Prasanta K. Panigrahi, V. Srinivasan, A. S. Vytheeswaran
comments: 11pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8240
abstract: The Kerr medium in the presence of damping and associated with SU(1,1) symmetry, is solved using the techniques of Thermo field Dynamics (TFD).These TFD techniques, well studied earlier (Chaturvedi and Srinivasan, 1991), help us to exactly solve the Kerr medium as a spin damped system associated with SU(2) symmetry. Using TFD, the association with SU(2) is exploited to express the dynamics of the system as a Schrodinger-like equation, whose solution is obtained using the appropriate disentanglement theorem. These considerations are extended to a system with multi-mode coupled nonlinear oscillators."

id: 1210.8251
title: Cryptography based on operator theory (I): quantum no-key protocols
authors: Li Yang, Min Liang
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8251
abstract: We study cryptography based on operator theory, and propose quantum no-key (QNK) protocols from the perspective of operator theory, then present a framework of QNK protocols. The framework is expressed in two forms: trace-preserving quantum operators and natural presentations. Then we defined the information-theoretical security of QNK protocols and the security of identification keys. Two kinds of QNK protocols are also proposed. The first scheme is constructed based on unitary transformation, and the other is constructed based on two multiplicative commutative sets.

id: 1210.8266
title: Nonlocal memory effects allow perfect teleportation with mixed states
authors: Elsi-Mari Laine, Heinz-Peter Breuer, Jyrki Piilo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8266
abstract: We show that perfect quantum teleportation can be achieved with mixed photon polarization states when nonlocal memory effects influence the dynamics of the quantum system. The protocol is carried out with a pair of photons, whose initial maximally entangled state is destroyed by local decoherence prior to teleportation. It is demonstrated that the presence of strong nonlocal memory effects, which arise from initial correlations between the environments of the photons, allow to restore perfect teleportation. We further analyze how the amount of initial correlations within the environment affects the fidelity of the protocol, and find that for a moderate amount of correlations the fidelity exceeds the one of the previously known optimal teleportation protocol without memory effects. Our results show that memory effects can be exploited in harnessing noisy quantum systems for quantum communication and that non-Markovianity is a resource for quantum information tasks.

id: 1210.8278
title: Room-temperature high-speed nuclear-spin quantum memory in diamond
authors: J. H. Shim, I. Niemeyer, J. Zhang, D. Suter
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8278
abstract: Quantum memories provide intermediate storage of quantum information until it is needed for the next step of a quantum algorithm or a quantum communication process. Relevant figures of merit are therefore the fidelity with which the information can be written and retrieved, the storage time, and also the speed of the read-write process. Here, we present experimental data on a quantum memory consisting of a single $^{13}$C nuclear spin that is strongly coupled to the electron spin of a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond. The strong hyperfine interaction of the nearest-neighbor carbon results in transfer times of 300 ns between the register qubit and the memory qubit, with an overall fidelity of 88 % for the write - storage - read cycle. The observed storage times of 3.3 ms appear to be limited by the T$_1$ relaxation of the electron spin. We discuss a possible scheme that may extend the storage time beyond this limit.

id: 1210.8287
title: Pairwise summation approximation for Casimir potentials and its limitations
authors: Anne-Florence Bitbol, Antoine Canaguier-Durand, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 045413 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8287
abstract: We investigate the error made by the pairwise summation (PWS) approximation in three geometries where the exact formula for the Casimir interaction is known: atom-slab, slab-slab and sphere-slab configurations. For each case the interactions are calculated analytically by summing the van der Waals interactions between the two objects. We show that the PWS result is incorrect even for an infinitely thin slab in the atom-slab configuration, because of local field effects, unless the material is infinitely dilute. In the experimentally relevant case of dielectric materials, in all considered geometries the error made by the PWS approximation is much higher than the well-known value obtained for perfect reflectors in the long-range regime. This error is maximized for permittivities close to the one of Silicon.

id: 1210.8288
title: The dynamical role of initial correlation in the exactly solvable dephasing model
authors: Yang Gao
comments: revised final version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2013) 67: 183
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8288
abstract: We investigate the effects of the initial correlation on the dynamics of open system in the exactly solvable pure dephasing model. We show that the role of the initial correlation come into play through a phase function and a weight factor, which would perform oscillations during time evolution, and find that the decoherence of a qubit coupled to a boson bath is more enhanced with respect to a spin bath in the short time. We also demonstrate that the trace distance between two states of a qubit can increase above its initial value, and that the initial correlation can provide another resource for the damply oscillation and revival of the entanglement of two qubits. We finally investigate the dependence of the crossover of decoherence from the dynamical enhancement to suppression under the bang-bang pulse control on the initial correlation and the statistics of the bath constituents.

id: 1210.8299
title: Quantum-criticality-induced strong Kerr nonlinearities in optomechanical systems
authors: Xin-You L¨¹, Wei-Min Zhang, Sahel Ashhab, Ying Wu, Franco Nori
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 2943 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8299
abstract: We investigate a hybrid electro-optomechanical system that allows us to obtain controllable strong Kerr nonlinearities in the weak-coupling regime. We show that when the controllable electromechanical subsystem is close to its quantum critical point, strong photon-photon interactions can be generated by adjusting the intensity (or frequency) of the microwave driving field. Nonlinear optical phenomena, such as the appearance of the photon blockade and the generation of nonclassical states (e.g., Schr\"{o}dinger cat states), are predicted in the weak-coupling regime, which is feasible for most current optomechanical experiments.

id: 1210.8309
title: Quantum discord of Bell cat-states under amplitude damping
authors: M. Daoud, R. Ahl Laamara
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 325302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8309
abstract: The evolution of pairwise quantum correlations of Bell cat-states under amplitude damping is examined using the concept of quantum discord which goes beyond entanglement. A closed expression of the quantum discord is explicitly derived. We used of the Koashi-Winter relation. A relation which facilitates the optimization process of the conditional entropy. We also discuss the temporal evolution of bipartite quantum correlations under a dephasing channel and compare the behaviors of quantum discord and entanglement whose properties are characterized through the concurrence.

id: 1210.8311
title: Geometric Measure of Pairwise Quantum Discord for Superpositions of Multipartite Generalized Coherent States
authors: M. Daoud, R. Ahl Laamara
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376 (2012) 2361
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8311
abstract: We give the explicit expressions of the pairwise quantum correlations present in superpositions of multipartite coherent states. A special attention is devoted to the evaluation of the geometric quantum discord. The dynamics of quantum correlations under a dephasing channel is analyzed. A comparison of geometric measure of quantum discord with that of concurrence shows that quantum discord in multipartite coherent states is more resilient to dissipative environments than is quantum entanglement. To illustrate our results, we consider some special superpositions of Weyl-Heisenberg, SU(2) and SU(1,1) coherent states which interpolate between Werner and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states.

id: 1210.8313
title: Quantum discord for multipartite coherent states interpolating between Werner and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states
authors: M. Daoud, R. Ahl Laamara
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 10 (2012) 1250060
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8313
abstract: The quantum discord is used as measure of quantum correlations for two families of multipartite coherent states. The first family interpolates between generalized GHZ states and generalized Werner states. The second one is an interpolation between generalized GHZ and the ground state of the multipartite quantum system. Two inequivalent ways to split the system in a pair of qubits are introduced. The explicit expressions of quantum quantum discord in multipartite coherent states are derived. Its evaluation uses the Koashi-Winter relation in optimizing the conditional entropy. The temporal evolution of quantum correlations (quantum discord and entanglement) is also discussed.

id: 1210.8317
title: Conjectured strong complementary-correlations tradeoff
authors: Andrzej Grudka, Micha? Horodecki, Pawe? Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki, Waldemar K?obus, ?ukasz Pankowski
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032106 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8317
abstract: We conjecture new uncertainty relations which restrict correlations between results of measurements performed by two separated parties on a shared quantum state. The first uncertainty relation bounds the sum of two mutual informations when one party measures a single observable and the other party measures one of two observables. The uncertainty relation does not follow from Maassen-Uffink uncertainty relation and is much stronger than Hall uncertainty relation derived from the latter. The second uncertainty relation bounds the sum of two mutual informations when each party measures one of two observables. We provide numerical evidence for validity of conjectured uncertainty relations and prove them for large classes of states and observables.

id: 1210.8319
title: Laser profile Changes Due to Photon-Axion Induced Beam Splitting
authors: Carol Scarlett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8319
abstract: This paper looks at a potentially unique measurable due to photon-axion coupling in an external magnetic field. Simulations indicate that probing couplings significantly lower than seen by previous cavity experiments is possible.

id: 1210.8335
title: Molecular spinning by a chiral train of short laser pulses
authors: Johannes Flo?, Ilya Sh. Averbukh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8335
abstract: We provide a detailed theoretical analysis of molecular rotational excitation by a chiral pulse train -- a sequence of linearly polarised pulses with the polarisation direction rotating from pulse to pulse by a controllable angle. Molecular rotation with a preferential rotational sense (clockwise or counter-clockwise) can be excited by this scheme. We show that the directionality of the rotation is caused by quantum interference of different excitation pathways. The chiral pulse train is capable of selective excitation of molecular isotopologues and nuclear spin isomers in a mixture. We demonstrate this using 14N2 and 15N2 as examples for isotopologues, and para- and ortho-nitrogen as examples for nuclear spin isomers.

id: 1210.8339
title: A model for quantum queue
authors: Piotr Gawron, Dariusz Kurzyk, Zbigniew Pucha?a
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. 11, 1350023 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Computer Science (cs.OH)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8339
abstract: We consider an extension of Discrete Time Markov Chain queueing model to the quantum domain by use of Discrete Time Quantum Markov Chain. We introduce methods for numerical analysis of such models. Using this tools we show that quantum model behaves fundamentally differently from the classical one.

id: 1210.8342
title: Theory of quantum frequency conversion and type-II parametric down-conversion in the high-gain regime
authors: Andreas Christ, Benjamin Brecht, Wolfgang Mauerer, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 26 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 053038 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8342
abstract: Frequency conversion (FC) and type-II parametric down-conversion (PDC) processes serve as basic building blocks for the implementation of quantum optical experiments: type-II PDC enables the efficient creation of quantum states such as photon-number states and Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-states (EPR-states). FC gives rise to technologies enabling efficient atom-photon coupling, ultrafast pulse gates and enhanced detection schemes. However, despite their widespread deployment, their theoretical treatment remains challenging. Especially the multi-photon components in the high-gain regime as well as the explicit time-dependence of the involved Hamiltonians hamper an efficient theoretical description of these nonlinear optical processes. In this paper, we investigate these effects and put forward two models that enable a full description of FC and type-II PDC in the high-gain regime. We present a rigorous numerical model relying on the solution of coupled integro-differential equations that covers the complete dynamics of the process. As an alternative, we develop a simplified model that, at the expense of neglecting time-ordering effects, enables an analytical solution. While the simplified model approximates the correct solution with high fidelity in a broad parameter range, sufficient for many experimental situations, such as FC with low efficiency, entangled photon-pair generation and the heralding of single photons from type-II PDC, our investigations reveal that the rigorous model predicts a decreased performance for FC processes in quantum pulse gate applications and an enhanced EPR-state generation rate during type-II PDC, when EPR squeezing values above 12 dB are considered.

id: 1210.8349
title: Topological Phenomena in Trapped Ion Systems
authors: T. Shi, J. I. Cirac
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, title changed and suppressed internal comments and added important reference
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013606 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8349
abstract: We propose and analyze a scheme to observe topological phenomena with ions in microtraps. We consider a set of trapped ions forming a regular structure in two spatial dimensions and interacting with lasers. We find phonon bands with non-trivial topological properties, which are caused by the breaking of time reversal symmetry induced by the lasers. We investigate the appearance of edge modes, as well as their robustness against perturbations. Long-range hopping of phonons caused by the Coulomb interaction gives rise to flat bands which, together with induced phonon-phonon interactions, can be used to produce and explore strongly correlated states. Furthermore, some of these ideas can also be implemented with cold atoms in optical lattices.

id: 1210.8395
title: Adiabatic Quantum Programming: Minor Embedding With Hard Faults
authors: Christine Klymko, Blair D. Sullivan, Travis S. Humble
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8395
abstract: Adiabatic quantum programming defines the time-dependent mapping of a quantum algorithm into an underlying hardware or logical fabric. An essential step is embedding problem-specific information into the quantum logical fabric. We present algorithms for embedding arbitrary instances of the adiabatic quantum optimization algorithm into a square lattice of specialized unit cells. These methods extend with fabric growth while scaling linearly in time and quadratically in footprint. We also provide methods for handling hard faults in the logical fabric without invoking approximations to the original problem, and illustrate their versatility through numerical studies of embeddabilty versus fault rates in square lattices of complete bipartite unit cells. The studies show these algorithms are more resilient to faulty fabrics than naive embedding approaches, a feature which should prove useful in benchmarking the adiabatic quantum optimization algorithm on existing faulty hardware.

id: 1210.8412
title: Hypercontractivity for semigroups of unital qubit channels
authors: Christopher King
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8412
abstract: Hypercontractivity is proved for products of qubit channels that belong to self-adjoint semigroups. The hypercontractive bound gives necessary and sufficient conditions for a product of the form e^{- t_1 H_1} \ot ... \ot e^{- t_n H_n} to be a contraction from L^p to L^q, where L^p is the algebra of 2^n-dimensional matrices equipped with the normalized Schatten norm, and each generator H_j is a self-adjoint positive semidefinite operator on the algebra of 2-dimensional matrices. As a particular case the result establishes the hypercontractive bound for a product of qubit depolarizing channels.

id: 1210.8447
title: Nothing happens in the Universe of the Everett Interpretation
authors: Jan-Markus Schwindt
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8447
abstract: Since the scalar product is the only internal structure of a Hilbert space, all vectors of norm 1 are equivalent, in the sense that they form a perfect sphere in the Hilbert space, on which every vector looks the same. The state vector of the universe contains no information that distinguishes it from other state vectors of the same Hilbert space. If the state vector is considered as the only fundamental entity, the world is completely structureless. The illusion of interacting subsystems is due to a "bad" choice of factorization (i.e. decomposition into subsystems) of the Hilbert space. There is always a more appropriate factorization available in which subsystems don't interact and nothing happens at all. This factorization absorbs the time evolution of the state vector in a trivial way. The Many Worlds Interpretation is therefore rather a No World Interpretation. A state vector gets the property of "representing a structure" only with respect to an external observer who measures the state according to a specific factorization and basis.

id: 1210.8450
title: Quantum transport with coupled cavities on the Apollonian network
authors: Guilherme M. A. Almeida, Andr¨¦ M. C. Souza
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 033804 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8450
abstract: We study the dynamics of single photonic and atomic excitations in the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard (JCH) model where the cavities are arranged in an Apollonian network (AN). The existence of a gapped field normal frequency spectrum along with strongly localized eigenstates on the AN highlights many of the features provided by the model. By numerically diagonalizing the JCH Hamiltonian in the single excitation subspace, we evaluate the time evolution of fully localized initial states, for many energy regimes. We provide a detailed description of the photonic quantum walk on the AN and also address how an effective Jaynes-Cummings interaction can be achieved at the strong hopping regime. When the hopping rate and the atom-field coupling strength is of the same order, the excitation is relatively allowed to roam between atomic and photonic degrees of freedom as it propagates. However, different cavities will contribute mostly to one of these components, depending on the detuning and initial conditions, in contrast to the strong atom-field coupling regime, where atomic and photonic modes propagate identically.

id: 1210.0013
title: Cold atoms in cavity-generated dynamical optical potentials
authors: Helmut Ritsch, Peter Domokos, Ferdinand Brennecke, Tilman Esslinger
comments: 55 page review paper
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 85, 553-601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0013
abstract: We review state-of-the-art theory and experiment of the motion of cold and ultracold atoms coupled to the radiation field within a high-finesse optical resonator in the dispersive regime of the atom-field interaction with small internal excitation. The optical dipole force on the atoms together with the back-action of atomic motion onto the light field gives rise to a complex nonlinear coupled dynamics. As the resonator constitutes an open driven and damped system, the dynamics is non-conservative and in general enables cooling and confining the motion of polarizable particles. In addition, the emitted cavity field allows for real-time monitoring of the particle's position with minimal perturbation up to sub-wavelength accuracy. For many-body systems, the resonator field mediates controllable long-range atom-atom interactions, which set the stage for collective phenomena. Besides correlated motion of distant particles, one finds critical behavior and non-equilibrium phase transitions between states of different atomic order in conjunction with superradiant light scattering. Quantum degenerate gases inside optical resonators can be used to emulate opto-mechanics as well as novel quantum phases like supersolids and spin glasses. Non-equilibrium quantum phase transitions, as predicted by e.g. the Dicke Hamiltonian, can be controlled and explored in real-time via monitoring the cavity field. In combination with optical lattices, the cavity field can be utilized for non-destructive probing Hubbard physics and tailoring long-range interactions for ultracold quantum systems.

id: 1210.0033
title: Collective Excitation Interferometry with a Toroidal Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: G. Edward Marti, Ryan Olf, Dan M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 11 pages including supplemental material, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 013602 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0033
abstract: The precision of compact inertial sensing schemes using trapped- and guided-atom interferometers has been limited by uncontrolled phase errors caused by trapping potentials and interactions. Here, we propose an acoustic interferometer that uses sound waves in a toroidal Bose-Einstein condensate to measure rotation, and we demonstrate experimentally several key aspects of this type of interferometer. We use spatially patterned light beams to excite counter-propagating sound waves within the condensate and use \emph{in situ} absorption imaging to characterize their evolution. We present an analysis technique by which we extract separately the oscillation frequencies of the standing-wave acoustic modes, the frequency splitting caused by static imperfections in the trapping potential, and the characteristic precession of the standing-wave pattern due to rotation. Supported by analytic and numerical calculations, we interpret the noise in our measurements, which is dominated by atom shot noise, in terms of rotation noise. While the noise of our acoustic interferometric sensor, at the level of $\sim \mbox{rad}\, \mbox{s}^{-1}/\sqrt{\mbox{Hz}}$, is high owing to rapid acoustic damping and the small radius of the trap, the proof-of-concept device does operate at $10^4 - 10^6$ times higher density and in a volume $10^9$ times smaller than free-falling atom interferometers.

id: 1210.0054
title: Momentum-space entanglement for interacting fermions at finite density
authors: Ting-Chen Leo Hsu, Michael B. McDermott, Mark Van Raamsdonk
comments: 19 pages, LaTeX, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0054
abstract: We investigate the entanglement between individual field theory modes in finite-density systems of interacting relativistic and non-relativistic fermions in one spatial dimension. We calculate the entanglement entropy for a single field theory mode and the mutual information between any two modes. The calculation is perturbative in the four-fermion (two-body) coupling, with the leading contribution at order lambda^2 log(lambda^2). At this leading order, the perturbative expression for the entanglement entropy of a mode diverges logarithmically as the momentum of the mode approaches the Fermi surface from above or below. The mutual information between modes is largest for pairs of modes just above and below the Fermi momentum. The entanglement properties of modes near the Fermi surface are qualitatively the same if the field theory is cut off to eliminate modes away from the Fermi surface.

id: 1210.0102
title: (1+1)-Dirac bound states in one-dimension; position-dependent Fermi velocity and mass
authors: Omar Mustafa
comments: 8 pages
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. 11 (2013) 480
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0102
abstract: We extend Panella and Roy's [13] work on one-dimensional heterostructure for massless Dirac particles with position-dependent (PD) velocity. We consider Dirac particles where both the mass and velocity are position-dependent. Bound states in the continuum (BIC)-like and discrete bound state solutions are reported. It is observed that BIC-like solutions are not only feasible for the ultra-relativistic (massless) Dirac particles but also for Dirac particles with PD-mass and PD-velocity that satisfy the condition m(x)v(x)v(x)=A, where A is constant. (1+1)-Dirac Poschl-Teller and harmonic oscillator models are also reported.

id: 1210.0119
title: Infinite families of (non)-Hermitian Hamiltonians associated with exceptional $X_m$ Jacobi polynomials
authors: Bikashkali Midya, Barnana Roy
comments: Revised version. Accepted in J. Phys. A
journal: Journal of Physics A 46 (2013) 175201
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0119
abstract: Using an appropriate change of variable, the Schr\"odinger equation is transformed into a second-order differential equation satisfied by recently discovered Jacobi type $X_m$ exceptional orthogonal polynomials. This facilitates the derivation of infinite families of exactly solvable Hermitian as well as non-Hermitian trigonometric Scarf potentials and finite number of Hermitian and infinite number of non-Hermitian PT-symmetric hyperbolic Scarf potentials. The bound state solutions of all these potentials are associated with the aforesaid exceptional orthogonal polynomials. These infinite families of potentials are shown to be extensions of the conventional trigonometric and hyperbolic Scarf potentials by the addition of some rational terms characterized by the presence of classical Jacobi polynomials. All the members of a particular family of these 'rationally extended polynomial-dependent' potentials have the same energy spectrum and possess translational shape invariant symmetry. The obtained non-Hermitian trigonometric Scarf potentials are shown to be quasi-Hermitian in nature ensuring the reality of the associated energy spectra.

id: 1210.0204
title: Delta potentials revisited via Fourier transform
authors: A.S. de Castro
comments: In Portuguese
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0204
abstract: The problem of bound states in delta potentials is revisited by means of Fourier transform approach. The problem in a simple delta potential sums up to solve an algebraic equation of degree one for the Fourier transform of the eigenfunction and the problem for more than one delta function also reveals itself to be a simple matter. Quite differently from direct methods, no knowledge about the jump discontinuity of the first derivative of the eigenfunction is required to determine the solution of the problem.

id: 1210.0207
title: Confluence of apparent singularities in multi-indexed orthogonal polynomials: the Jacobi case
authors: C.-L. Ho, R. Sasaki, K. Takemura
comments: 27 pages, no figures. A Table added to summarize the main results, typos corrected, some statements added to improve presentation. Version in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 115205
subjects: Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0207
abstract: The multi-indexed Jacobi polynomials are the main part of the eigenfunctions of exactly solvable quantum mechanical systems obtained by certain deformations of the P\"oschl-Teller potential (Odake-Sasaki). By fine-tuning the parameter(s) of the P\"oschl-Teller potential, we obtain several families of explicit and global solutions of certain second order Fuchsian differential equations with an apparent singularity of characteristic exponent -2 and -1. They form orthogonal polynomials over $x\in(-1,1)$ with weight functions of the form $(1-x)^\alpha(1+x)^\beta/\{(ax+b)^4q(x)^2\}$, in which $q(x)$ is a polynomial in $x$.

id: 1210.0253
title: Effective Dynamics of a Tracer Particle Interacting with an Ideal Bose Gas
authors: D.-A. Deckert, J. Fr?hlich, P. Pickl, A. Pizzo
comments: 27 pages, typos corrected, a few more explanations added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0253
abstract: We study a system consisting of a heavy quantum particle, called tracer particle, coupled to an ideal gas of light Bose particles, the ratio of masses of the tracer particle and a gas particle being proportional to the gas density. All particles have non-relativistic kinematics. The tracer particle is driven by an external potential and couples to the gas particles through a pair potential. We compare the quantum dynamics of this system to an effective dynamics given by a Newtonian equation of motion for the tracer particle coupled to a classical wave equation for the Bose gas. We quantify the closeness of these two dynamics as the mean-field limit is approached (gas density $\to\infty$). Our estimates allow us to interchange the thermodynamic with the mean-field limit.

id: 1210.0299
title: Quantum Entanglement and Topological Order in Hole-Doped Valence Bond Solid States
authors: Kazuki Hasebe, Keisuke Totsuka
comments: 22 pages, 12 figures, supplementary material is available upon request, minor corrections
journal: Phys.Rev.B 87, 045115 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0299
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of topological properties of the valence bond solid (VBS) states doped with fermionic holes. As concrete examples, we consider the supersymmetric extension of the SU(2)- and the SO(5) VBS states, dubbed UOSp(1|2) and UOSp(1|4) supersymmetric VBS states, respectively. Specifically, we investigate the string-order parameters and the entanglement spectra of these states to find that, even when the parent states (bosonic VBS states) do not support the string order, they recover it when holes are doped and the fermionic sector appears in the entanglement spectrum. These peculiar properties are discussed in light of the symmetry-protected topological order. To this end, we characterize a few typical classes of symmetry-protected topological orders in terms of supermatrix-product states (SMPS). From this, we see that the topological order in the bulk manifests itself in the transformation properties of the SMPS in question and thereby affects the structure of the entanglement spectrum. Then, we explicitly relate the existence of the string order and the structure of the entanglement spectrum to explain the recovery and the stabilization of the string order in the supersymmetric systems.

id: 1210.0303
title: Manipulating the non-Gaussianity of phase-randomized coherent states
authors: Alessia Allevi, Stefano Olivares, Maria Bondani
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 22, pp. 24850-24855 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0303
abstract: We experimentally investigate the non-Gaussian features of the phase-randomized coherent states, a class of states exploited in communication channels and in decoy state-based quantum key distribution protocols. In particular, we reconstruct their phase-insensitive Wigner functions and quantify their non-Gaussianity. The measurements are performed in the mesoscopic photon-number domain by means of a direct detection scheme involving linear detectors.

id: 1210.0357
title: A rigorous derivation of the transition rate for the dissipative two-state system
authors: Marco Merkli, Haifeng Song
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to a mistake in the proof of the main result.
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0357
abstract: The transition rate for a two-state system interacting with a bosonic heat bath, from the initial state `up' at time t=0 to `down' at time t>0, was derived formally in the seminal paper [12] by Leggett, Chakravarty, Dorsey, Fisher, Garg and Zwerger. The expression was obtained for small tunneling parameter of the two-level system using time-dependent perturbation theory to second order. It contains all orders in the parameter of coupling between the system and the bath. We give a rigorous derivation of the transition rate, using a quantum resonance approach.

id: 1210.0361
title: Scattering of a spinless particle by an asymmetric Hulth{¨¦}n potential within the effective mass formalism
authors: Oktay Aydo?du, Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 102111 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0361
abstract: Effective mass Klein-Gordon equation for the asymmetric Hulth{\'e}n potential is solved in terms of hypergeometric functions. Results are obtained for the scattering and bound states with the position dependent mass and constant mass, as a special case. In both cases, we derive a condition for the existence of transmission resonance (T=1). We also study how the transmission resonance depends on the particle energy and the shape of the external potential.

id: 1210.0364
title: Some inequalities in the fidelity approach to phase transitions
authors: N. S. Tonchev, J. G. Brankov
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0364
abstract: We present some aspects of the fidelity approach to phase transitions based on lower and upper bounds on the fidelity susceptibility that are expressed in terms of thermodynamic quantities. Both commutative and non commutative cases are considered. In the commutative case, in addition, a relation between the fidelity and the nonequilibrium work done on the system in a process from an equilibrium initial state to an equilibrium final state has been obtained by using the Jarzynski equality.

id: 1210.0389
title: Direct measurement of the Wigner time-delay for the scattering of light by a single atom
authors: R. Bourgain, J. Pellegrino, Y. R. P. Sortais, A. Browaeys
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 38, 1963 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0389
abstract: We have implemented the gedanken experiment of an individual atom scattering a wave packet of near-resonant light, and measured the associated Wigner time-delay as a function of the frequency of the light. In our apparatus the atom behaves as a two-level system and we have found delays as large as 42 nanoseconds at resonance, limited by the lifetime of the excited state. This delay is an important parameter in the problem of collective near-resonant scattering by an ensemble of interacting particles, which is encountered in many areas of physics.

id: 1210.0449
title: Tunneling resonances in systems without a classical trapping
authors: D. Borisov, P. Exner, A. Golovina
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0449
abstract: In this paper we analyze a free quantum particle in a straight Dirichlet waveguide which has at its axis two Dirichlet barriers of lengths $\ell_\pm$ separated by a window of length 2a. It is known that if the barriers are semiinfinite, i.e. we have two adjacent waveguides coupled laterally through the boundary window, the system has for any a>0 a finite number of eigenvalues below the essential spectrum threshold. Here we demonstrate that for large but finite $\ell_\pm$ the system has resonances which converge to the said eigenvalues as $\ell_\pm\to\infty$, and derive the leading term in the corresponding asymptotic expansion.

id: 1210.0613
title: On Multiplicative Linear Logic, Modality and Quantum Circuits
authors: Ugo Dal Lago, Claudia Faggian
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 55-66
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0613
abstract: A logical system derived from linear logic and called QMLL is introduced and shown able to capture all unitary quantum circuits. Conversely, any proof is shown to compute, through a concrete GoI interpretation, some quantum circuits. The system QMLL, which enjoys cut-elimination, is obtained by endowing multiplicative linear logic with a quantum modality.

id: 1210.0614
title: Analysis of a Quantum Error Correcting Code using Quantum Process Calculus
authors: Timothy A. S. Davidson, Simon J. Gay, Rajagopal Nagarajan, Ittoop Vergheese Puthoor
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 67-80
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Programming Languages (cs.PL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0614
abstract: We describe the use of quantum process calculus to describe and analyze quantum communication protocols, following the successful field of formal methods from classical computer science. The key idea is to define two systems, one modelling a protocol and one expressing a specification, and prove that they are behaviourally equivalent. We summarize the necessary theory in the process calculus CQP, including the crucial result that equivalence is a congruence, meaning that it is preserved by embedding in any context. We illustrate the approach by analyzing two versions of a quantum error correction system.

id: 1210.0615
title: The Born rule as structure of spectral bundles (extended abstract)
authors: Bertfried Fauser, Guillaume Raynaud, Steven Vickers
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 81-90
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0615
abstract: Topos approaches to quantum foundations are described in a unified way by means of spectral bundles, where the base space is a space of contexts and each fibre is its spectrum. Differences in variance are due to the bundle being a fibration or opfibration. Relative to this structure, the probabilistic predictions of the Born rule in finite dimensional settings are then described as a section of a bundle of valuations. The construction uses in an essential way the geometric nature of the valuation locale monad.

id: 1210.0619
title: Bohrification of local nets
authors: Joost Nuiten
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 211-218
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0619
abstract: Recent results by Spitters et. al. suggest that quantum phase space can usefully be regarded as a ringed topos via a process called Bohrification. They show that quantum kinematics can then be interpreted as classical kinematics, internal to this ringed topos. We extend these ideas from quantum mechanics to algebraic quantum field theory: from a net of observables we construct a presheaf of quantum phase spaces. We can then naturally express the causal locality of the net as a descent condition on the corresponding presheaf of ringed toposes: we show that the net of observables is local, precisely when the presheaf of ringed toposes satisfies descent by a local geometric morphism.

id: 1210.0622
title: Symmetry and Self-Duality in Categories of Probabilistic Models
authors: Alexander Wilce
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 275-279
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0622
abstract: This note adds to the recent spate of derivations of the probabilistic apparatus of finite-dimensional quantum theory from various axiomatic packages. We offer two different axiomatic packages that lead easily to the Jordan algebraic structure of finite-dimensional quantum theory. The derivation relies on the Koecher-Vinberg Theorem, which sets up an equivalence between order-unit spaces having homogeneous, self-dual cones, and formally real Jordan algebras.

id: 1210.0665
title: Entanglement of nanoelectromechanical oscillators by Cooper-pair tunneling
authors: Stefan Walter, Jan Carl Budich, Jens Eisert, Bj?rn Trauzettel
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 035441 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0665
abstract: We demonstrate that entanglement of two macroscopic nanoelectromechanical resonators -- coupled to each other via a common detector, a tunnel junction -- can be generated by running a current through the device. We introduce a setup that overcomes generic limitations of proposals suggesting to entangle systems via a shared bath. At the heart of the proposal is an Andreev entangler setup, representing an experimentally feasible way of entangling two nanomechanical oscillators. Instead of relying on the coherence of a (fermionic) bath, in the Andreev entangler setup, a split Cooper-pair that coherently tunnels to each oscillator mediates their coupling and thereby induces entanglement between them. Since entanglement is in each instance generated by Markovian and non-Markovian noisy open system dynamics in an out-of-equilibrium situation, we argue that the present scheme also opens up perspectives to observe dissipation-driven entanglement in a condensed-matter system.

id: 1210.0720
title: Universal Chaotic Scattering on Quantum Graphs
authors: Z. Pluhar, H. A. Weidenmueller
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 034101 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0720
abstract: We calculate the S-matrix correlation function for chaotic scattering on quantum graphs and show that it agrees with that of random--matrix theory (RMT). We also calculate all higher S-matrix correlation functions in the Ericson regime. These, too, agree with RMT results as far as the latter are known. We concjecture that our results give a universal description of chaotic scattering.

id: 1210.0736
title: Quantum Computation and Quantum Information
authors: Yazhen Wang
comments: Published in at this http URL the Statistical Science (this http URL) by the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (this http URL)
journal: Statistical Science 2012, Vol. 27, No. 3, 373-394
subjects: Methodology (stat.ME); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0736
abstract: Quantum computation and quantum information are of great current interest in computer science, mathematics, physical sciences and engineering. They will likely lead to a new wave of technological innovations in communication, computation and cryptography. As the theory of quantum physics is fundamentally stochastic, randomness and uncertainty are deeply rooted in quantum computation, quantum simulation and quantum information. Consequently quantum algorithms are random in nature, and quantum simulation utilizes Monte Carlo techniques extensively. Thus statistics can play an important role in quantum computation and quantum simulation, which in turn offer great potential to revolutionize computational statistics. While only pseudo-random numbers can be generated by classical computers, quantum computers are able to produce genuine random numbers; quantum computers can exponentially or quadratically speed up median evaluation, Monte Carlo integration and Markov chain simulation. This paper gives a brief review on quantum computation, quantum simulation and quantum information. We introduce the basic concepts of quantum computation and quantum simulation and present quantum algorithms that are known to be much faster than the available classic algorithms. We provide a statistical framework for the analysis of quantum algorithms and quantum simulation.

id: 1210.0799
title: Enhancing the Thermal Stability of Majorana Fermions with Redundancy Using Dipoles in Optical Lattices
authors: Fei Lin, V.W. Scarola
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 220401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0799
abstract: Pairing between spinless fermions can generate Majorana fermion excitations that exhibit intriguing properties arising from non-local correlations. But simple models indicate that non-local correlation between Majorana fermions becomes unstable at non-zero temperatures. We address this issue by showing that anisotropic interactions between dipolar fermions in optical lattices can be used to significantly enhance thermal stability. We construct a model of oriented dipolar fermions in a square optical lattice. We find that domains established by strong interactions exhibit enhanced correlation between Majorana fermions over large distances and long times even at finite temperatures, suitable for stable redundancy encoding of quantum information. Our approach can be generalized to a variety of configurations and other systems, such as quantum wire arrays.

id: 1210.0811
title: The Quantum Adiabatic Algorithm applied to random optimization problems: the quantum spin glass perspective
authors: Victor Bapst, Laura Foini, Florent Krzakala, Guilhem Semerjian, Francesco Zamponi
comments: 151 pages, 21 figures
journal: Physics Reports 523, 127 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0811
abstract: Among various algorithms designed to exploit the specific properties of quantum computers with respect to classical ones, the quantum adiabatic algorithm is a versatile proposition to find the minimal value of an arbitrary cost function (ground state energy). Random optimization problems provide a natural testbed to compare its efficiency with that of classical algorithms. These problems correspond to mean field spin glasses that have been extensively studied in the classical case. This paper reviews recent analytical works that extended these studies to incorporate the effect of quantum fluctuations, and presents also some original results in this direction.

id: 1210.0857
title: Cooperative light scattering on an atomic system with degenerate structure of the ground state
authors: Alexandra S. Sheremet, Alisa D. Manukhova, Nickolay V. Larionov, Dmitriy V. Kupriyanov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043414 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0857
abstract: We present here a microscopic analysis of the cooperative light scattering on an atomic system consisting of \Lambda-type configured atoms with the spin-degenerate ground state. The results are compared with a similar system consisting of standard "two-level" atoms of the Dicke model. We discuss advantages of the considered system in context of its possible implications for light storage in a macroscopic ensemble of dense and ultracold atoms.

id: 1210.0868
title: Coherence and Stimulated Emission in the Tavis-Cummings Model: A Quantum Description of the Free Induction Signal and Radiation Damping in Magnetic Resonance
authors: James Tropp
comments: MS 42 total pages (double spaced) 6 figures. Preliminary accounts of this work were given at annual meeting of the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine (ISMRM), and at the Experimental NMR Conference (ENC), both in 2011
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 014105 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0868
abstract: We numerically solve the Liouville equation for the Tavis Cummings model of multiple spins coupled to a lossless single mode cavity, starting from an initial condition with small numbers of fully polarized spins tipped by a specified angle, and the cavity in its ground Fock state. Time evolution of the magnetizations and cavity states, following small to medium nutation by a classical field, yields a microscopic quantum mechanical picture of radiation damping in magnetic resonance, and the formation of the free induction signal, that is, the transfer of Zeeman energy, via spin coherence, to cavity coherence. Although the motion of the Bloch vector is nonclassical, our quantum description is related to the macroscopic picture of NMR reception, by showing the close relationship between the usual radiation damping constant, and the quantum mechanical Rabi nutation frequency (as enhanced by cavity coupling and stimulated emission.) That is, each is the product, of a nutation rate per oscillator current, and a current. Although the current in the damping constant is explicitly limited by cavity losses, which do not enter the formula for the Rabi frequency, we nonetheless show (in an appendix) how these losses can be introduced into our problem by means of a master equation. Numerical solution of the classical Bloch-Kirchhoff equations reinforces the conclusion that the strength of the free induction

id: 1210.0922
title: Qubit, superqubit and squbit
authors: Andrzej M. Frydryszak
comments: 9 pages, The XXth International Conference on Integrable Systems and Quantum symmetries (ISQS-20), Prague, June 2012
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0922
abstract: We analyze recently proposed formalisms which use nilpotent variables to describe and/or generalize qubits and notion of entanglement. There are two types of them distinguished by the commutativity and or anti-commutativity of basics variables. While nilpotent commuting variables suit the new description of the qubits and entanglement, the anticommuting do not, but they can be used to describe generalized objects - superqubits. A squbit, in the present context, is a version of superqubit introduced to cure some of problematic properties of the superqubit.

id: 1210.0935
title: Detuning-Dependent Mollow Triplet of a Coherently-Driven Single Quantum Dot
authors: Ata Ulhaq, Stefanie Weiler, Chiranjeeb Roy, Sven Marcus Ulrich, Michael Jetter, Stephen Hughes, Peter Michler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.0935
abstract: We present both experimental and theoretical investigations of a laser-driven quantum dot (QD) in the dressed-state regime of resonance fluorescence. We explore the role of phonon scattering and pure dephasing on the detuning-dependence of the Mollow triplet and show that the triplet sidebands may spectrally broaden or narrow with increasing detuning. Based on a polaron master equation approach which includes electron-phonon interaction nonperturbatively, we derive a fully analytical expression for the spectrum. With respect to detuning dependence, we identify a crossover between the regimes of spectral sideband narrowing or broadening. A comparison of the theoretical predictions to detailed experimental studies on the laser detuning-dependence of Mollow triplet resonance emission from single In(Ga)As QDs reveals excellent agreement.

id: 1210.1097
title: Turing machines based on unsharp quantum logic
authors: Yun Shang, Xian Lu, Ruqian Lu
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 251-261
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1097
abstract: In this paper, we consider Turing machines based on unsharp quantum logic. For a lattice-ordered quantum multiple-valued (MV) algebra E, we introduce E-valued non-deterministic Turing machines (ENTMs) and E-valued deterministic Turing machines (EDTMs). We discuss different E-valued recursively enumerable languages from width-first and depth-first recognition. We find that width-first recognition is equal to or less than depth-first recognition in general. The equivalence requires an underlying E value lattice to degenerate into an MV algebra. We also study variants of ENTMs. ENTMs with a classical initial state and ENTMs with a classical final state have the same power as ENTMs with quantum initial and final states. In particular, the latter can be simulated by ENTMs with classical transitions under a certain condition. Using these findings, we prove that ENTMs are not equivalent to EDTMs and that ENTMs are more powerful than EDTMs. This is a notable difference from the classical Turing machines.

id: 1210.1130
title: How to calculate spectra of Rabi and related models
authors: Andrzej J. Maciejewski, Maria Przybylska, Tomasz Stachowiak
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1130
abstract: We show how to use properly the Bargmann space of entire functions in the analysis of the Rabi model. We are able to correct a serious error in recent papers on the topic and develop a corrected method of finding the spectrum applicable also to other, more general systems.

id: 1210.1171
title: Perturbation Bounds for Quantum Markov Processes and their Fixed Points
authors: Oleg Szehr, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54(3) (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1171
abstract: We investigate the stability of quantum Markov processes with respect to perturbations of their transition maps. In the first part, we introduce a condition number that measures the sensitivity of fixed points of a quantum channel to perturbations. We establish upper and lower bounds on this condition number in terms of subdominant eigenvalues of the transition map. In the second part, we consider quantum Markov processes that converge to a unique stationary state and we analyze the stability of the evolution at finite times. In this way we obtain a linear relation between the mixing time of a quantum Markov process and the sensitivity of its fixed point with respect to perturbations of the transition map.

id: 1210.1176
title: Probabilistic and Geometric Languages in the Context of the Principle of Least Action
authors: Vladislav Terekhovich
comments: 13 pages, 1 figures; translation from Russian corrected
journal: Philosophy of Science, Novosibirsk. 52-2 (2012), 108-120
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1176
abstract: This paper explores the issue of the unification of three languages of physics, the geometric language of forces, geometric language of fields or 4-dimensional space-time, and probabilistic language of quantum mechanics. On the one hand, equations in each language may be derived from the Principle of Least Action (PLA). On the other hand, Feynman's path integral method could explain the physical meaning of PLA. The axioms of classical and relativistic mechanics can be considered as consequences of Feynman's formulation of quantum mechanics.

id: 1210.1247
title: Quasiresonant Excitation of InP/InGaP Quantum Dots Using Second Harmonic Generated in a Photonic Crystal Cavity
authors: Sonia Buckley, Kelley Rivoire, Fariba Hatami, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 101, 161116 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1247
abstract: Indistinguishable single photons are necessary for quantum information processing applications. Resonant or quasiresonant excitation of single quantum dots provides greater single photon indistinguishability than incoherent pumping, but is also more challenging experimentally. Here, we demonstrate high signal to noise quasiresonant excitation of InP/InGaP quantum dots. The excitation is provided via second harmonic generated from a telecommunications wavelength laser resonant with the fundamental mode of a photonic crystal cavity, fabricated at twice the quantum dot transition wavelength. The second harmonic is generated using the \chi(2) nonlinearity of the InGaP material matrix.

id: 1210.1281
title: Topological order: from long-range entangled quantum matter to an unification of light and electrons
authors: Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: A gentle review of topological order. 43 pages 22 figures
journal: ISRN Condensed Matter Physics, vol. 2013, Article ID 198710, 20 pages, 2013
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1281
abstract: In primary school, we were told that there are four states of matter: solid, liquid, gas, and plasma. In college, we learned that there are much more than four states of matter. For example, there are ferromagnetic states as revealed by the phenomenon of magnetization and superfluid states as defined by the phenomenon of zero-viscosity. The various phases in our colorful world are so rich that it is amazing that they can be understood systematically by the symmetry breaking theory of Landau. In this paper, we will review the progress in last 20 -- 30 years, during which we discovered that there are even more interesting phases that are beyond Landau symmetry breaking theory. We discuss new "topological" phenomena, such as topological degeneracy, that reveal the existence of those new phases - topologically ordered phases. Just like zero-viscosity defines the superfluid order, the new "topological" phenomena define the topological order at macroscopic level. As a new type of order, topological order requires a new mathematical frame work, such as fusion category and group cohomology, to describe it. More recently, we find that, at microscopical level, topological order is due to long-range quantum entanglements, just like fermion superfluid is due to fermion-pair condensation. Long-range quantum entanglements lead to many amazing emergent phenomena, such as fractional quantum numbers, fractional/non-Abelian statistics, and perfect conducting boundary channels. Long-range quantum entanglements can even provide a unified origin of light and electrons (or more generally, gauge interactions and Fermi statistics): light waves (gauge fields) are fluctuations of long-range entanglements, and electrons (fermions) are defects of long-range entanglements.

id: 1210.1355
title: On the Electric-Dipole Representation in Atomic Physics
authors: Francesco Miglietta
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1355
abstract: The unitary transformation that leads from the minimal-coupling description to the electric-dipole one is analysed in detail. The momentum cut-off function f(k), which is understood in the definition of such a transformation, is obtained explicitly by use of the variational method. We give an expression for f(k) in terms of the electron-density and of the mean-squared value of the electric-dipole moment of the atom in its ground state. A relevant consequence concerns the van der Waals interaction, whose long-distance behaviour turns out to be proportional to R^{-8} .

id: 1210.1382
title: Fidelity susceptibility of one-dimensional models with twisted boundary conditions
authors: Manisha Thakurathi, Diptiman Sen, Amit Dutta
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures; made some changes in response to referees; this is the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 245424 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1382
abstract: Recently it has been shown that the fidelity of the ground state of a quantum many-body system can be used to detect its quantum critical points (QCPs). If g denotes the parameter in the Hamiltonian with respect to which the fidelity is computed, we find that for one-dimensional models with large but finite size, the fidelity susceptibility \chi_F can detect a QCP provided that the correlation length exponent satisfies \nu < 2. We then show that \chi_F can be used to locate a QCP even if \nu \ge 2 if we introduce boundary conditions labeled by a twist angle N\theta, where N is the system size. If the QCP lies at g = 0, we find that if N is kept constant, \chi_F has a scaling form given by \chi_F \sim \theta^{-2/\nu} f(g/\theta^{1/\nu}) if \theta \ll 2\pi/N. We illustrate this both in a tight-binding model of fermions with a spatially varying chemical potential with amplitude h and period 2q in which \nu = q, and in a XY spin-1/2 chain in which \nu = 2. Finally we show that when q is very large, the model has two additional QCPs at h = \pm 2 which cannot be detected by studying the energy spectrum but are clearly detected by \chi_F. The peak value and width of \chi_F seem to scale as non-trivial powers of q at these QCPs. We argue that these QCPs mark a transition between extended and localized states at the Fermi energy.

id: 1210.1481
title: Projected BCS states and spin Hamiltonians for the SO(n)_1 Wess-Zumino-Witten model
authors: Hong-Hao Tu
comments: 5+8 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 041103(R) (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1481
abstract: We propose a class of projected BCS wave functions and derive their parent spin Hamiltonians. These wave functions can be formulated as infinite Matrix Product States constructed by chiral correlators of Majorana fermions. In 1D, the spin Hamiltonians can be viewed as SO(n) generalizations of Haldane-Shastry models. We numerically compute the spin-spin correlation functions and Renyi entropies for n=5 and 6. Together with the results for n=3 and 4, we conclude that these states are critical and their low-energy effective theory is the SO(n)_1 Wess-Zumino-Witten model. In 2D, we show that the projected BCS states are chiral spin liquids, which support non-Abelian anyons for odd n and Abelian anyons for even n.

id: 1210.1493
title: Effect of Monolayer Thickness Fluctuations on Coherent Exciton Coupling in Single Quantum Wells
authors: Yuri D. Glinka, Zheng Sun, Mikhail Erementchouk, Michael N. Leuenberger, Alan D. Bristow, Steven T. Cundiff, Allan S. Bracker, Xiaoqin Li
comments: 5 paages, 4 figures, journal submission
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1493
abstract: Monolayer fluctuations in the thickness of a semiconductor quantum well (QW) lead to three types of excitons, located in the narrower, average and thicker regions of the QW, which are clearly resolved in optical spectra. Whether or not these excitons are coherently coupled via Coulomb interactions is a long-standing debate. We demonstrate that different types of disorder in QWs distinctly affects the coherent coupling and that the coupling strength can be quantitatively measured using optical two-dimensional Fourier transform spectroscopy. We prove experimentally and theoretically that in narrow quantum wells the coherent coupling occurs predominantly between excitons residing in the disorder-free areas of the QWs and those residing in the plateau-type disorder. In contrast, excitons localized in the fault-type disorder potentials do not coherently couple to other excitons.

id: 1210.1545
title: Coherent Josephson phase qubit with a single crystal silicon capacitor
authors: U. Patel, Y. Gao, D. Hover, G. J. Ribeill, S. Sendelbach, R. McDermott
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1545
abstract: We have incorporated a single crystal silicon shunt capacitor into a Josephson phase qubit. The capacitor is derived from a commercial silicon-on-insulator wafer. Bosch reactive ion etching is used to create a suspended silicon membrane; subsequent metallization on both sides is used to form the capacitor. The superior dielectric loss of the crystalline silicon leads to a significant increase in qubit energy relaxation times. T1 times up to 1.6 micro-second were measured, more than a factor of two greater than those seen in amorphous phase qubits. The design is readily scalable to larger integrated circuits incorporating multiple qubits and resonators.

id: 1210.1595
title: Dark Bell states in tunnel-coupled spin qubits
authors: Rafael S¨¢nchez, Gloria Platero
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures + supplementary information. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B (Rapid Communications) 87, 081305 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1595
abstract: We investigate the dynamical purification of maximally entangled electron states by transport through coupled quantum dots. Under resonant ac driving and coherent tunneling, even-parity Bell states perform Rabi oscillations that decouple from the environment, leading to a dark state. The two electrons remain spatially separated, one in each quantum dot. We propose configurations where this effect will prove as antiresonances in transport spectroscopy experiments.

id: 1210.1605
title: Circuit QED with fluxonium qubits: theory of the dispersive regime
authors: Guanyu Zhu, David G. Ferguson, Vladmir E. Manucharyan, Jens Koch
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures; revised version with minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87 024510 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1605
abstract: In circuit QED, protocols for quantum gates and readout of superconducting qubits often rely on the dispersive regime, reached when the qubit-photon detuning {\Delta} is large compared to their mutual coupling strength. For qubits including the Cooper-pair box and transmon, selection rules dramatically restrict the contributions to dispersive level shifts {\chi}. By contrast, without selection rules many virtual transitions contribute to {\chi} and can produce sizable dispersive shifts even at large detuning. We present theory for a generic multi-level qudit capacitively coupled to one or multiple harmonic modes, and give general expressions for the effective Hamiltonian in second and fourth order perturbation theory. Applying our results to the fluxonium system, we show that the absence of strong selection rules explains the surprisingly large dispersive shifts observed in experiments and also leads to the prediction of a two-photon vacuum Rabi splitting. Quantitative predictions from our theory are in good agreement with experimental data over a wide range of magnetic flux and reveal that fourth-order resonances are important for the phase modulation observed in fluxonium spectroscopy.

id: 1210.1650
title: Excited States, Dynamic Correlation Functions and Spectral Properties from Full Configuration Interaction Quantum Monte Carlo
authors: George H. Booth, Garnet Kin-Lic Chan
comments: 
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics, 137, 191102 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1650
abstract: In this communication, we propose a method for obtaining isolated excited states within the Full Configuration Interaction Quantum Monte Carlo framework. This method allows for stable sampling with respect to collapse to lower energy states and requires no uncontrolled approximations. In contrast with most previous methods to extract excited state information from Quantum Monte Carlo methods, this results from a modification to the underlying propagator, and does not require explicit orthogonalization, analytic continuation, transient estimators or restriction of the Hilbert space via a trial wavefunction. Furthermore, we show that the propagator can directly yield frequency-domain correlation functions and spectral functions such as the density of states which are difficult to obtain within a traditional Quantum Monte Carlo framework. We demonstrate this approach with pilot applications to the neon atom and beryllium dimer.

id: 1210.1719
title: New potentials for conformal mechanics
authors: G. Papadopoulos
comments: 15 pages, significant changes, references added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1719
abstract: We find under some mild assumptions that the most general potential of 1-dimensional conformal systems with time independent couplings is expressed as $V=V_0+V_1$, where $V_0$ is a homogeneous function with respect to a homothetic motion in configuration space and $V_1$ is determined from an equation with source a homothetic potential. Such systems admit at most an $SL(2,\bR)$ conformal symmetry which, depending on the couplings, is embedded in Diff(R)$ in three different ways. In one case, $SL(2,\bR)$ is also embedded in Diff(S^1). Examples of such models include those with potential $V=\alpha x^2+\beta x^{-2}$ for arbitrary couplings $\alpha$ and $\beta$, the Calogero models with harmonic oscillator couplings and non-linear models with suitable metrics and potentials. In addition, we give the conditions on the couplings for a class of gauge theories to admit a $SL(2,\bR)$ conformal symmetry. We present examples of such systems with general gauge groups and global symmetries that include the isometries of $AdS_2 x S^3$ and $AdS_2 x S^3 x S^3$ which arise as backgrounds in $AdS_2/CFT_1$.

id: 1210.1800
title: Towards non-local density functionals by explicit modeling of the exchange-correlation hole in inhomogeneous systems
authors: Klaas J.H. Giesbertz, Robert van Leeuwen, Ulf von Barth
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022514 (2013)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1800
abstract: We put forward new approach for the development of a non-local density functional by a direct modeling of the shape of exchange-correlation (xc) hole in inhomogeneous systems. The functional is aimed at giving an accurate xc-energy and an accurate corresponding xc-potential even in difficult near-degeneracy situations such as molecular bond breaking. In particular we demand that: (1) the xc hole properly contains -1 electron, (2) the xc-potential has the asymptotic -1/r behavior outside finite systems and (3) the xc-potential has the correct step structure related to the derivative discontinuities of the xc-energy functional. None of the currently existing functionals satisfies all these requirements. These demands are achieved by screening the exchange hole in such a way that the pair-correlation function is symmetric and satisfies the sum-rule. These two features immediately imply (1) and (2) while the explicit dependence of the exchange hole on the Kohn-Sham orbitals implies (3). Preliminary calculations show an improved physical description of the dissociating hydrogen molecule. Though the total energy is still far from perfect, the binding curve from our non-local density functional provides a significant improvement over the local density approximation.

id: 1210.1831
title: Determining the structure of real-space entanglement spectrum from approximate conditional independence
authors: Isaac H. Kim
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, added references. The conjecture in the original manuscript is now a theorem, see 1210.5190 . The new version reflects this change
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 155120 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1831
abstract: We study the ground state of a gapped quantum many-body system whose entanglement entropy $S_A$ can be expressed as $S_A = a|\partial A| - \gamma$, where $a, \gamma$ are some constants and $|\partial A|$ is an area of the subsystem $A$. By using a recently proved operator extension of strong subadditivity of entropy,[I. H. Kim, J. Math. Phys. 53, 122204 (2012)] we show that certain linear combination of the real-space entanglement spectrum has a small correlation with almost any local operator. Our result implies that there exists a structure relating the real-space entanglement spectrum over different subsystems. Further, this structure is inherited from the generic property of the ground state alone, suggesting that the locality of the entanglement spectrum may be attributed to the area law of entanglement entropy.

id: 1210.1847
title: Constraints on the Universe as a Numerical Simulation
authors: Silas R. Beane, Zohreh Davoudi, Martin J. Savage
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1847
abstract: Observable consequences of the hypothesis that the observed universe is a numerical simulation performed on a cubic space-time lattice or grid are explored. The simulation scenario is first motivated by extrapolating current trends in computational resource requirements for lattice QCD into the future. Using the historical development of lattice gauge theory technology as a guide, we assume that our universe is an early numerical simulation with unimproved Wilson fermion discretization and investigate potentially-observable consequences. Among the observables that are considered are the muon g-2 and the current differences between determinations of alpha, but the most stringent bound on the inverse lattice spacing of the universe, b^(-1) >~ 10^(11) GeV, is derived from the high-energy cut off of the cosmic ray spectrum. The numerical simulation scenario could reveal itself in the distributions of the highest energy cosmic rays exhibiting a degree of rotational symmetry breaking that reflects the structure of the underlying lattice.

id: 1210.1936
title: On a power series involving classical orthogonal polynomials
authors: Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: Contribution to the special issue of Romanian Journal of Physics dedicated to Professor Mihai Gavrila's 80th anniversary. We hereby bring the article to the attention of a broader audience
journal: Romanian Journal of Physics 55, 631-644 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1936
abstract: We investigate a class of power series occurring in some problems in quantum optics. Their coefficients are either Gegenbauer or Laguerre polynomials multiplied by binomial coefficients. Although their sums have been known for a long time, we employ here a different method to recover them as higher-order derivatives of the generating function of the given orthogonal polynomials. The key point in our proof consists in exploiting a specific functional equation satisfied by the generating function in conjunction with Cauchy's integral formula for the derivatives of a holomorphic function. Special or limiting cases of Gegenbauer polynomials include the Legendre and Chebyshev polynomials. The series of Hermite polynomials is treated in a straightforward way, as well as an asymptotic case of either the Gegenbauer or the Laguerre series. Further, we have succeeded in evaluating the sum of a similar power series which is a higher-order derivative of Mehler's generating function. As a prerequisite, we have used a convenient factorization of the latter that enabled us to employ a particular Laguerre expansion. Mehler's summation formula is then applied in quantum mechanics in order to retrieve the propagator of a linear harmonic oscillator.

id: 1210.1957
title: Interplay of charge and spin coherence in Landau-Zener-St¨¹ckelberg-Majorana interferometry
authors: Hugo Ribeiro, J. R. Petta, Guido Burkard
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 235318 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1957
abstract: We study Landau-Zener dynamics in a double quantum dot filled with two electrons, where the spin states can become correlated with charge states and the level velocity can be tuned in a time-dependent fashion. We show that a correct interpretation of experimental data is only possible when finite-time effects are taken into account. In addition, our formalism allows the study of partial adiabatic dynamics in the presence of phonon-mediated hyperfine relaxation and charge-noise-induced dephasing. Our findings demonstrate that charge noise severely impacts the visibility of Landau-Zener-St\"uckelberg-Majorana interference fringes. This indicates that charge coherence must be treated on an equal footing with spin coherence.

id: 1210.2034
title: Dynamical quantum phase transitions and broken-symmetry edges in the many-body eigenvalue spectrum
authors: Giacomo Mazza, Michele Fabrizio
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2034
abstract: Many body models undergoing a quantum phase transition to a broken-symmetry phase that survives up to a critical temperature must possess, in the ordered phase, symmetric as well as non-symmetric eigenstates. We predict, and explicitly show in the fully-connected Ising model in a transverse field, that these two classes of eigenstates do not overlap in energy, and therefore that an energy edge exists separating low-energy symmetry-breaking eigenstates from high-energy symmetry-invariant ones. This energy is actually responsible, as we show, for the dynamical phase transition displayed by this model under a sudden large increase of the transverse field. A second situation we consider is the opposite, where the symmetry-breaking eigenstates are those in the high-energy sector of the spectrum, whereas the low-energy eigenstates are symmetric. In that case too a special energy must exist marking the boundary and leading to unexpected out-of-equilibrium dynamical behavior. An example is the fermionic repulsive Hubbard model Hamiltonian H. Exploiting the trivial fact that the high energy spectrum of H is also the low energy one of -H, we conclude that the high energy eigenstates of the Hubbard model are superfluid. Simulating in a time-dependent Gutzwiller approximation the time evolution of a high energy BCS-like trial wave function, we show that a small superconducting order parameter will actually grow in spite of the repulsive nature of interaction.

id: 1210.2048
title: Comment on "What the information loss is {\it not}"
authors: Qing-yu Cai, Baocheng Zhang, Ming-sheng Zhan, Li You
comments: We submit this comment in order to prevent any further propagation of the misconceptions of the paradox
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2048
abstract: A recent article by Mathur attempts a "precise formulation" for the paradox of black hole information loss [S. D. Mathur, arXiv:1108.0302v2 (hep-th)]. We point out that a key component of the above work, which refers to entangled pairs inside and outside of the horizon and their associated entropy gain or information loss during black hole evaporation, is a presumptuous false outcome not backed by the very foundation of physics. The very foundation of Mathur's above work is thus incorrect. We further show that within the framework of Hawking radiation as tunneling the so-called small corrections are sufficient to resolve the information loss problem.

id: 1210.2098
title: The Transfer of Entanglement: The Case for Firewalls
authors: Leonard Susskind
comments: 28 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2098
abstract: Black hole complementarity requires that the interior of a black hole be represented by the same degrees of freedom that describe its exterior. Entanglement plays a crucial role in the reconstruction of the interior degrees of freedom. This connection is manifest in "two-sided" eternal black holes. But for real black holes which are formed from collapse there are no second sides. The sense in which horizon entropy is entanglement entropy is much more subtle for one-sided black holes. It involves entanglement between different parts of the near-horizon system. As a one-sided black hole evaporates the entanglement that accounts for its interior degrees of freedom disappears, and is gradually replaced by entanglement with the outgoing Hawking radiation. A principle of "transfer of entanglement" can be formulated. According to the argument of Almheiri, Marolf, Polchinski and Sully, it is when the transfer of entanglement is completed at the Page time, that a firewall replaces the horizon. Alternatives to firewalls may suffer contradictions which are similar to those of time travel. The firewall hypothesis would be similar to Hawking's chronology protection conjecture.

id: 1210.2111
title: Design principles and fundamental trade-offs in biomimetic light harvesting
authors: Mohan Sarovar, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 35 pages, 8 figures. Published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 013030 (2013)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2111
abstract: Recent developments in synthetic and supramolecular chemistry have created opportunities to design organic systems with tailored nanoscale structure for various technological applications. A key application area is the capture of light energy and its conversion into electrochemical or chemical forms for photovoltaic or sensing applications. In this work we consider cylindrical assemblies of chromophores that model structures produced by several supramolecular techniques. Our study is especially guided by the versatile structures produced by virus-templated assembly. We use a multi-objective optimization framework to determine design principles and limitations in light harvesting performance for such assemblies, both in the presence and absence of disorder. We identify a fundamental trade-off in cylindrical assemblies that is encountered when attempting to maximize both efficiency of energy transfer and absorption bandwidth. We also rationalize the optimal design strategies and provide explanations for why various structures provide optimal performance. Most importantly, we find that the optimal design strategies depend on the amount of energetic and structural disorder in the system. The aim of these studies is to develop a program of quantum-informed rational design for construction of organic assemblies that have the same degree of tailored nanoscale structure as biological photosynthetic light harvesting complexes, and also have the potential to reproduce their remarkable light harvesting performance.

id: 1210.2153
title: Exciton-polariton condensates near the Dirac point in a triangular lattice
authors: Na Young Kim, Kenichiro Kusudo, Andreas Loeffler, Sven Hoefling, Alfred Forchel, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2153
abstract: Dirac particles, massless relativistic entities, obey linear energy dispersions and hold important implication in particle physics. Recent discovery of Dirac fermions in condensed matter systems including graphene and topological insulators raises great interests to explore relativistic properties associated with Dirac physics in solid-state materials. In addition, there are stimulating research activities to engineer Dirac paricles to eludicte their physical properties in a controllable setting. One of the successful platforms is the ultracold atom-optical lattice system, whose dynamics can be manipulated in a clean environment. A microcavity exciton-polariton-lattice system provides an alternative route with an advantage of forming high-orbital condensation in non-equilibrium conditions, which enables to explore novel quantum orbital order in two dimensions. Here we directly map the liner dispersions near the Dirac points, the vertices of the first hexagonal Brillouin zone from exciton-polariton condensates trapped in a triangular lattice. The associated velocity values are ~ 0.9 - 2*10^8 cm/s, which are consistent with the theoretical estimate 1*10^8 cm/s with a 2 \mu m-lattice constant. We envision that the exciton-polariton condensates in lattices would be a promising solid-state platform, where the system order parameter can be accesses in both real and momentum spaces. We furthermore explore unique phenomena revealing quantum bose nature such as superfluidity and distinct features analogous to quantum Hall effect pertinent to time-reversal symmetry.

id: 1210.2176
title: Virial expansion for a strongly correlated Fermi system and its application to ultracold atomic Fermi gases
authors: Xia-Ji Liu
comments: 53 pages, 31 figures; Review paper on virial expansion; Accepted for publication in Physics Reports
journal: Physics Reports Vol 524, 37-83(2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2176
abstract: Strongly correlated Fermi system plays a fundamental role in very different areas of physics, from neutron stars, quark-gluon plasmas, to high temperature superconductors. Despite the broad applicability, it is notoriously difficult to be understood theoretically because of the absence of a small interaction parameter. Recent achievements of ultracold trapped Fermi atoms near a Feshbach resonance have ushered in enormous changes. The unprecedented control of interaction, geometry and purity in these novel systems has led to many exciting experimental results, which are to be urgently understood at both low and finite temperatures. Here we review the latest developments of virial expansion for a strongly correlated Fermi gas and their applications on ultracold trapped Fermi atoms. We show remarkable, quantitative agreements between virial predictions and various recent experimental measurements at about the Fermi degenerate temperature. For equation of state, we discuss a practical way of determining high-order virial coefficients and use it to calculate accurately the long-sought third-order virial coefficient, which is now verified firmly in experiments at ENS and MIT. We discuss also virial expansion of a new many-body paramter - Tan's contact. We then turn to less widely discussed issues of dynamical properties. For dynamic structure factor, the virial prediction agrees well with the measurement at the Swinburne University of Technology. For single-particle spectral function, we show that the expansion up to the second order accounts for the main feature of momentum-resolved rf-spectroscopy for a resonantly interacting Fermi gas, as recently reported by JILA. In the near future, more practical applications with virial expansion are possible, owing to the ever-growing power in computation.

id: 1210.2224
title: Superdiffusive comb: Application to experimental observation of anomalous diffusion in one dimension
authors: Alexander Iomin
comments: 
journal: Physical Review E 86, 032101 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2224
abstract: A possible mechanism of superdiffusion of ultra-cold atoms in a one-dimensional polarization optical lattice, observed experimentally in [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{108}, 093002 (2012)], is suggested. The analysis is based on a consideration of anomalous diffusion in a fractal comb [Phys. Rev. E \textbf{83}, 052106 (2011)]. It is shown that the transport exponent is determined by the fractal geometry of the comb due to recoil distributions resulting in L\'evy flights of atoms.

id: 1210.2238
title: Quantum beats in the polarization response of a dielectric to intense few-cycle laser pulses
authors: Michael Korbman, Stanislav Yu. Kruchinin, Vladislav S. Yakovlev
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 013006 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2238
abstract: We have investigated the polarization response of a dielectric to intense few-cycle laser pulses with a focus on interband tunnelling. Once charge carriers are created in an initially empty conduction band, they make a significant contribution to the polarization response. In particular, the coherent superposition of conduction- and valence-band states results in quantum beats. This quantum-beat part of the polarization response is affected by the excitation dynamics and attosecond-scale motion of charge carriers in an intense laser field. Our analysis shows that, with the onset of Bloch oscillations or tunnelling, the nonlinear polarization response becomes sensitive to the carrier-envelope phase of the laser pulse.

id: 1210.2356
title: Microwave controlled efficient Raman and sub-Raman generation
authors: Pankaj K. Jha, Sumanta Das, Tarak N. Dey
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2356
abstract: We propose an efficient scheme for the generation and the manipulation of Raman fields in an homogeneously broadened atomic vapor in a closed three levels $\Lambda$-configuration. The key concept in generating the Raman and sub-Raman fields efficiently at lower optical densities involve the microwave induced atomic coherence of the lower levels. We show explicitly that, generation efficiency of the Raman fields can be controlled by manipulating the coherences via phase and amplitude of the microwave field.

id: 1210.2360
title: Perturbative analysis of topological entanglement entropy from conditional independence
authors: Isaac H. Kim
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, added references, clarified Lemma 1, some other minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 245116 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2360
abstract: We use the structure of conditionally independent states to analyze the stability of topological entanglement entropy. For the ground state of quantum double or Levin-Wen model, we obtain a bound on the first order perturbation of topological entanglement entropy in terms of its energy gap and subsystem size. The bound decreases superpolynomially with the size of the subsystem, provided the energy gap is nonzero. We also study the finite temperature stability of stabilizer models, for which we prove a stronger statement than the strong subadditivity of entropy. Using this statement and assuming i) finite correlation length ii) small conditional mutual information of certain configurations, first order perturbation effect for arbitrary local perturbation can be bounded. We discuss the technical obstacles in generalizing these results.

id: 1210.2505
title: Measurement of phase fluctuations of Bose-Einstein condensates in an optical lattice
authors: Bing Wang, Qiang Zhu, Hailong Zhou, Dezhi Xiong, Hongwei Xiong, Baolong Lu
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2505
abstract: Even at zero temperature, there exist phase fluctuations associated with an array of Bose-Einstein condensates confined in a one-dimensional optical lattice. We demonstrate a method to measure the phase fluctuations based on the Fourier spectrum of the atomic density for a condensate released from the optical lattice. The phase variance is extracted from the relative intensities of different peaks in the Fourier spectrum. This method works even for high lattice strength where interference peaks disappear in the atomic density distribution.

id: 1210.2567
title: Observation of a p-wave Optical Feshbach Resonance
authors: Rekishu Yamazaki, Shintaro Taie, Seiji Sugawa, Katsunari Enomoto, Yoshiro Takahashi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2567
abstract: We demonstrate a p$-wave optical Feshbach resonance (OFR) using purely long-range molecular states of a fermionic isotope of ytterbium ^{171}Yb, following the proposition made by K. Goyal et al. [Phys. Rev. A 82, 062704 (2010)]. The p-wave OFR is clearly observed as a modification of a photoassociation rate for atomic ensembles at about 5 micro-Kelvins. A scattering phase shift variation of \delta \eta=0.022 rad is observed with an atom loss rate coefficient K=28.0*10^{-12} cm^3/s.

id: 1210.2579
title: Self-Dual Maps and Symmetric Bistochastic Matrices
authors: Corey O'Meara, Rajesh Pereira
comments: 11 pages, to appear in Linear Multilinear Algebra. Updated version with further references
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2579
abstract: The H-unistochastic matrices are a special class of symmetric bistochastic matrices obtained by taking the square of the absolute value of each entry of a Hermitian unitary matrix. We examine the geometric relationship of the convex hull of the n by n H-unistochastic matrices relative to the larger convex set of n by n symmetric bistochastic matrices. We show that any line segment in the convex set of the n by n symmetric bistochastic matrices which passes through the centroid of this convex set must spend at least two-thirds of its length in the convex hull of the n by n H-unistochastic matrices when n is either three or four and we prove a partial result for higher n. A class of completely positive linear maps called the self-dual doubly stochastic maps is useful for studying this problem. Some results on self-dual doubly stochastic maps are given including a self-dual version of the Laudau-Streater theorem.

id: 1210.2607
title: Minimal Fokker-Planck theory for the thermalization of mesoscopic subsystems
authors: Igor Tikhonenkov, Amichay Vardi, James R. Anglin, Doron Cohen
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, proofed version including the supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 050401 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2607
abstract: We explore a minimal paradigm for thermalization, consisting of two weakly-coupled, low dimensional, non-integrable subsystems. As demonstrated for Bose-Hubbard trimers, chaotic ergodicity results in a diffusive response of each subsystem, insensitive to the details of the drive exerted on it by the other. This supports the hypothesis that thermalization can be described by a Fokker Plank equation. We also observe, however, that Levy-flight type anomalies may arise in mesoscopic systems, due to the wide range of time scales that characterize `sticky' dynamics.

id: 1210.2671
title: Laser noise in cavity-optomechanical cooling and thermometry
authors: Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Jasper Chan, Jeff T. Hill, Simon Groeblacher, Haixing Miao, Yanbei Chen, Markus Aspelmeyer, Oskar Painter
comments: 36 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 035007 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2671
abstract: We review and study the roles of quantum and classical fluctuations in recent cavity-optomechanical experiments which have now reached the quantum regime (mechanical phonon occupancy < 1) using resolved sideband laser cooling. In particular, both the laser noise heating of the mechanical resonator and the form of the optically transduced mechanical spectra, modified by quantum and classical laser noise squashing, are derived under various measurement conditions. Using this theory, we analyze our recent ground-state laser cooling and motional sideband asymmetry experiments with nanoscale optomechanical crystal resonators.

id: 1210.2685
title: XXZ spin-1/2 representation of a finite-U Bose-Hubbard chain at half-integer filling
authors: Domenico Giuliano, Davide Rossini, Pasquale Sodano, Andrea Trombettoni
comments: 17 pages, 12 .eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 035104 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2685
abstract: Using a similarity Hamiltonian renormalization procedure, we determine an effective spin-1/2 representation of the Bose-Hubbard model at half-integer filling and at a finite on-site interaction energy U. By means of bosonization, we are able to recast the effective Hamiltonian as that of a spin-1/2 XXZ magnetic chain with pertinently renormalized coupling and anisotropy parameters. We use this mapping to provide analytical estimates of the correlation functions of the Bose-Hubbard model. We then compare such results with those based on DMRG numerical simulations of the Bose-Hubbard model for various values of U and for a number L of lattice sites as low as L ~ 30. We find an excellent agreement up to 10% between the output of analytical and numerical computations, even for relatively small values of U. Our analysis implies that, also at finite U, the 1D Bose-Hubbard model with suitably chosen parameters may be seen as a quantum simulator of the XXZ chain.

id: 1210.2736
title: Dipole-dipole interaction between a quantum dot and graphene nanodisk
authors: Joel D. Cox, Mahi R. Singh, Godfrey Gumbs, Miguel. A. Ant¨®n, Fernando Carre?o
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 125452 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2736
abstract: We study theoretically the dipole-dipole interaction and energy transfer in a hybrid system consisting of a quantum dot and graphene nanodisk embedded in a nonlinear photonic crystal. In our model a probe laser field is applied to measure the energy transfer between the quantum dot and graphene nanodisk while a control field manipulates the energy transfer process. These fields create excitons in the quantum dot and surface plasmon polaritons in the graphene nanodisk which interact via the dipole-dipole interaction. Here the nonlinear photonic crystal acts as a tunable photonic reservoir for the quantum dot, and is used to control the energy transfer. We have found that the spectrum of power absorption in the quantum dot has two peaks due to the creation of two dressed excitons in the presence of the dipole-dipole interaction. The energy transfer rate spectrum of the graphene nanodisk also has two peaks due to the absorption of these two dressed excitons. Additionally, energy transfer between the quantum dot and the graphene nanodisk can be switched on and off by applying a pump laser to the photonic crystal or by adjusting the strength of the dipole-dipole interaction. We show that the intensity and frequencies of the peaks in the energy transfer rate spectra can be modified by changing the number of graphene monolayers in the nanodisk or the separation between the quantum dot and graphene. Our results agree with existing experiments on a qualitative basis. The principle of our system can be employed to fabricate nano-biosensors, optical nano-switches, and energy transfer devices.

id: 1210.2738
title: Quantum channels arising from abstract harmonic analysis
authors: Jason Crann, Matthias Neufang
comments: 20 pages; a few typos corrected from original
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2738
abstract: We present a new application of harmonic analysis to quantum information by constructing intriguing classes of quantum channels stemming from specific representations of multiplier algebras over locally compact groups $G$. Beginning with a representation of the measure algebra $M(G)$, we unify and elaborate on recent counter-examples to fixed point subalgebras in infinite dimensions, as well as present an application to the noiseless subsystems method of quantum error correction. Using a representation of the completely bounded Fourier multiplier algebra $McbA(G)$, we provide a new class of counter-examples to the recently solved asymptotic quantum Birkhoff conjecture, along with a systematic method of producing the examples using a geometric representation of Schur maps. Further properties of our channels including duality, quantum capacity, and entanglement preservation are discussed along with potential applications to additivity conjectures.

id: 1210.2791
title: Many-body energy localization transition in periodically driven systems
authors: Luca D'Alessio, Anatoli Polkovnikov
comments: final (printed) version
journal: Annals of Physics Volume 333, June 2013, Pages 19-33
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2791
abstract: According to the second law of thermodynamics the total entropy of a system is increased during almost any dynamical process. The positivity of the specific heat implies that the entropy increase is associated with heating. This is generally true both at the single particle level, like in the Fermi acceleration mechanism of charged particles reflected by magnetic mirrors, and for complex systems in everyday devices. Notable exceptions are known in noninteracting systems of particles moving in periodic potentials. Here the phenomenon of dynamical localization can prevent heating beyond certain threshold. The dynamical localization is known to occur both at classical (Fermi-Ulam model) and at quantum levels (kicked rotor). However, it was believed that driven ergodic systems will always heat without bound. Here, on the contrary, we report strong evidence of dynamical localization transition in periodically driven ergodic systems in the thermodynamic limit. This phenomenon is reminiscent of many-body localization in energy space.

id: 1210.2867
title: Observing the decay of orbital angular momentum entanglement, through experimentally simulated turbulence
authors: Alpha Hamadou Ibrahim, Filippus S. Roux, Sandeep Goyal, Melanie McLaren, Thomas Konrad, Andrew Forbes
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2867
abstract: We study the evolution of an orbital angular momentum (OAM) entangled bipartite photonic state for the case where one of the photons propagates through Kolmogorov turbulence, using the concurrence as a measure of entanglement. Quantum state tomography was performed to reconstruct the two qubit density matrices for a range of scintillation strengths. Our results give the first direct experimental confirmation of the existing theories for decay of entanglement due to atmospheric turbulence. We also show how the modal scattering increases with increasing scintillation and we discuss the impact of the scale at which entanglement dissipates due to atmospheric turbulence on free-space quantum communication.

id: 1210.2888
title: Radiation fields for nanoscale systems
authors: MingLiang Zhang, D. A. Drabold
comments: 10 pages, physica status solidi (b) accepted
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2888
abstract: For a group of charged particles obeying quantum mechanics interacting with an electromagnetic field, the charge and current density in a pure state of the system are expressed with the many-body wave function of the state. Using these as sources, the microscopic Maxwell equations can be written down for any given pure state of a many-body system. By employing semi-classical radiation theory with these sources, the microscopic Maxwell equations can be used to compute the strong radiation fields produced by interacting charged quantal particles. For a charged quantal particle, three radiation fields involve only the vector potential $\mathbf{A}$. This is another example demonstrating the observability of vector potential. Five radiation fields are perpendicular to the canonical momentum of a single charged particle. For a group of charged particles, a new type of radiation field is predicted to be perpendicular to $\mathbf{A}(\mathbf{x}_{j},t)\times \lbrack\nabla\times(\nabla_{j}\Psi^{\prime})]$, where $\Psi^{'}$ is the many-body wave function. This kind of radiation does not exist for a single charged particle. The macroscopic Maxwell equations are derived from the corresponding microscopic equations for a pure state by the Russakoff-Robinson procedure which requires only a spatial coarse graining. Because the sources of fields are also the responses of a system to an external field, one also has to give up the temporal coarse graining of the current density which is often supposed to be critical in the kinetic approach of conductivity.

id: 1210.2898
title: Quasihole dynamics as a detection tool for quantum Hall phases
authors: Tobias Gra?, Bruno Juli¨¢-D¨ªaz, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053629 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.2898
abstract: Existing techniques for synthesizing gauge fields are able to bring a two-dimensional cloud of harmonically trapped bosonic atoms into a regime where the occupied single-particle states are restricted to the lowest Landau level (LLL). Repulsive short-range interactions drive various transitions from fully condensed into strongly correlated states. In these different phases we study the response of the system to quasihole excitations induced by a laser beam. We find that in the Laughlin state the quasihole performs a coherent constant rotation around the center, ensuring conservation of angular momentum. This is distinct to any other regime with higher density, where the quasihole is found to decay. At a characteristic time, the decay process is reversed, and revivals of the quasihole can be observed in the density. Measuring the period and position of the revival can be used as a spectroscopic tool to identify the strongly correlated phases in systems with a finite number of atoms.

id: 1210.3046
title: Modern methods for calculations of photoionization and electron impact ionization of two-electron atoms and molecules
authors: Vladislav V. Serov, Vladimir L. Derbov, Tatiana A. Sergeeva, Sergue I. Vinitsky
comments: In Russian, 74 pages, 14 figures. Submitted to "Physics of Elementary Particles and Atomic Nuclei"
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3046
abstract: A review of some recently developed methods of calculating multiple differential cross-sections of photoionization and electron impactionization of atoms and molecules having two active electrons is presented. The methods imply original approaches to calculating three-particle Coulomb wave functions. The external complex scaling method and the formalism of the Schroedinger equation with a source in the right-hand side are considered. Efficiency of the time-dependent approaches to the scattering problem, such as the paraxial approximation and the time-dependent scaling, is demonstrated. An original numerical method elaborated by the authors for solving the 6D Schroedinger equation for an atom with two active electrons, based on the Chang-Fano transformation and the discrete variable representation, is formulated. Basing on numerical simulations, the threshold behavior of angular distributions of two-electron photoionization of the negative hydrogen ion and helium atom, and multiple differential cross-sections of electron impact ionization of hydrogen and nitrogen molecules are analyzed. It is demonstrated that the Wannier law for the angular distribution of double ionisation is not correct even at very small energies.

id: 1210.3088
title: Mapping of the unoccupied states and relevant bosonic modes via the time dependent momentum distribution
authors: A. F. Kemper, M. Sentef, B. Moritz, C. C. Kao, Z. X. Shen, J. K. Freericks, T. P. Devereaux
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 235139 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3088
abstract: The unoccupied states of complex materials are difficult to measure, yet play a key role in determining their properties. We propose a technique that can measure the unoccupied states, called time-resolved Compton scattering, which measures the time-dependent momentum distribution (TDMD). Using a non-equilibrium Keldysh formalism, we study the TDMD for electrons coupled to a lattice in a pump-probe setup. We find a direct relation between temporal oscillations in the TDMD and the dispersion of the underlying unoccupied states, suggesting that both can be measured by time-resolved Compton scattering. We demonstrate the experimental feasibility by applying the method to a model of MgB$_2$ with realistic material parameters.

id: 1210.3163
title: Partial inner product spaces, metric operators and generalized hermiticity
authors: Jean-Pierre Antoine, Camillo Trapani
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures (in LaTeX)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 025204; Corrigendum, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 329501
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3163
abstract: Motivated by the recent developments of pseudo-hermitian quantum mechanics, we analyze the structure of unbounded metric operators in a Hilbert space. It turns out that such operators generate a canonical lattice of Hilbert spaces, that is, the simplest case of a partial inner product space (PIP space). Next, we introduce several generalizations of the notion of similarity between operators and explore to what extend they preserve spectral properties. Then we apply some of the previous results to operators on a particular PIP space, namely, a scale of Hilbert spaces generated by a metric operator. Finally, we reformulate the notion of pseudo-hermitian operators in the preceding formalism.

id: 1210.3199
title: Acoustic control of the lasing threshold in QDs ensemble coupled to an optical microcavity
authors: D. V. Vishnevsky, N. A. Gippius
comments: 8 figures, 2 videos
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3199
abstract: We propose a theoretical model which describes the coupling between quantum dots ensemble and optical microcavity. By this model we simulate the interaction of the system with the strain pulse which can strongly modify the lasing of QDs.

id: 1210.3200
title: Spin Hall Effect
authors: M.I. Dyakonov
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Future Trends in Microelectronics, S. Luryi, J. Xu, and A. Zaslavsky (eds), Wiley 2010, p. 251
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3200
abstract: This is a brief review of the phenomenology of the spin Hall effect and related phenomena.

id: 1210.3230
title: Universal three-body parameter in ultracold 4He*
authors: S. Knoop, J. S. Borbely, W. Vassen, S. J. J. M. F. Kokkelmans
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062705 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3230
abstract: We have analyzed our recently-measured three-body loss rate coefficient for a Bose-Einstein condensate of spin-polarized metastable triplet 4He atoms in terms of Efimov physics. The large value of the scattering length for these atoms, which provides access to the Efimov regime, arises from a nearby potential resonance. We find the loss coefficient to be consistent with the three-body parameter (3BP) found in alkali-metal experiments, where Feshbach resonances are used to tune the interaction. This provides new evidence for a universal 3BP, the first outside the group of alkali-metal elements. In addition, we give examples of other atomic systems without Feshbach resonances but with a large scattering length that would be interesting to analyze once precise measurements of three-body loss are available.

id: 1210.3232
title: Emergent Supersymmetric Many-Body Systems in Doped Z2 Topological Spin Liquid of the Toric-Code Model
authors: Jing He, Jing Yu, Xing-Hai Zhang, Su-Peng Kou
comments: 4.5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3232
abstract: In this paper, we studied the doped Z2 topological spin liquid of the toric-code model. We found that the doped holes become supersymmetric particles. The ground state of the doped Z2 topological spin liquid becomes new matters of quantum states - supersymmetric Bose-Einstein condensation or supersymmetric superfluid. As a result, this system provides a unique example of manipulatable supersymmetric many-body system.

id: 1210.3272
title: A microfabricated ion trap with integrated microwave circuitry
authors: D. T. C. Allcock, T. P. Harty, C. J. Ballance, B. C. Keitch, N. M. Linke, D. N. Stacey, D. M. Lucas
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3272
abstract: We describe the design, fabrication and testing of a surface-electrode ion trap, which incorporates microwave waveguides, resonators and coupling elements for the manipulation of trapped ion qubits using near-field microwaves. The trap is optimised to give a large microwave field gradient to allow state-dependent manipulation of the ions' motional degrees of freedom, the key to multiqubit entanglement. The microwave field near the centre of the trap is characterised by driving hyperfine transitions in a single laser-cooled 43Ca+ ion.

id: 1210.3304
title: Practical intractability: a critique of the hypercomputation movement
authors: Aran Nayebi
comments: To appear in Minds and Machines
journal: Minds and Machines, 24(3): 275-305, August 2014
subjects: Logic (math.LO); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3304
abstract: For over a decade, the hypercomputation movement has produced computational models that in theory solve the algorithmically unsolvable, but they are not physically realizable according to currently accepted physical theories. While opponents to the hypercomputation movement provide arguments against the physical realizability of specific models in order to demonstrate this, these arguments lack the generality to be a satisfactory justification against the construction of \emph{any} information-processing machine that computes beyond the universal Turing machine. To this end, I present a more mathematically concrete challenge to hypercomputability, and will show that one is immediately led into physical impossibilities, thereby demonstrating the infeasibility of hypercomputers more generally. This gives impetus to propose and justify a more plausible starting point for an extension to the classical paradigm that is physically possible, at least in principle. Instead of attempting to rely on infinities such as idealized limits of infinite time or numerical precision, or some other physically unattainable source, one should focus on extending the classical paradigm to better encapsulate modern computational problems that are not well-expressed/modeled by the closed-system paradigm of the Turing machine. I present the first steps toward this goal by considering contemporary computational problems dealing with intractability and issues surrounding cyber-physical systems, and argue that a reasonable extension to the classical paradigm should focus on these issues in order to be practically viable.

id: 1210.3545
title: Models of Topology Change
authors: Alfred D. Shapere, Frank Wilczek, Zhaoxi Xiong
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3545
abstract: We show how changes in unitarity-preserving boundary conditions allow continuous interpolation among the Hilbert spaces of quantum mechanics on topologically distinct manifolds. We present several examples, including a computation of entanglement entropy production. We discuss approximate realization of boundary conditions through appropriate interactions, thus suggesting a route to possible experimental realization. We give a theoretical application to quantization of singular Hamiltonians, and give tangible form to the "many worlds" interpretation of wave functions.

id: 1210.3575
title: Relativity Is Not About Spacetime
authors: Edward J. Gillis
comments: 11 pages. Written for the 2012 FQXi essay contest "Which of Our Basic Physical Assumptions Are Wrong?"
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3575
abstract: Quantum measurement predictions are consistent with relativity for macroscopic observations, but there is no consensus on how to explain this consistency in fundamental terms. The prevailing assumption is that the relativistic structure of spacetime should provide the framework for any microphysical account. This bias is due, in large part, to our intuitions about local causality, the idea that all physical processes propagate through space in a continuous manner. I argue that relativity is not a guarantor of local causality, and is not about ontological features of spacetime. It is, rather, an expression of the observational equivalence of spacetime descriptions of physical processes. This observational equivalence is due to the essentially probabilistic nature of quantum theory.

id: 1210.3623
title: Keldysh approach for non-equilibrium phase transitions in quantum optics: beyond the Dicke model in optical cavities
authors: Emanuele G. Dalla Torre, Sebastian Diehl, Mikhail D. Lukin, Subir Sachdev, Philipp Strack
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures. Extended discussion of 1/N corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023831 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3623
abstract: We investigate non-equilibrium phase transitions for driven atomic ensembles, interacting with a cavity mode, coupled to a Markovian dissipative bath. In the thermodynamic limit and at low-frequencies, we show that the distribution function of the photonic mode is thermal, with an effective temperature set by the atom-photon interaction strength. This behavior characterizes the static and dynamic critical exponents of the associated superradiance transition. Motivated by these considerations, we develop a general Keldysh path integral approach, that allows us to study physically relevant nonlinearities beyond the idealized Dicke model. Using standard diagrammatic techniques, we take into account the leading-order corrections due to the finite number of atoms N. For finite N, the photon mode behaves as a damped, classical non-linear oscillator at finite temperature. For the atoms, we propose a Dicke action that can be solved for any N and correctly captures the atoms' depolarization due to dissipative dephasing.

id: 1210.3649
title: Minimal Self-Contained Quantum Refrigeration Machine Based on Four Quantum Dots
authors: Davide Venturelli, Rosario Fazio, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 256801 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3649
abstract: We present a theoretical study of an electronic quantum refrigerator based on four quantum dots arranged in a square configuration, in contact with as many thermal reservoirs. We show that the system implements the basic minimal mechanism for acting as a self-contained quantum refrigerator, by demonstrating heat extraction from the coldest reservoir and the cooling of the nearby quantum-dot.

id: 1210.3663
title: Superradiant Raman Laser Magnetometer
authors: Joshua M. Weiner, Kevin C. Cox, Justin G. Bohnet, Zilong Chen, James K. Thompson
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3663
abstract: We demonstrate a proof-of-principle magnetometer that relies on the active oscillation of a cold atom Raman laser to continuously map a field-sensitive atomic phase onto the phase of the radiated light. We demonstrate wideband sensitivity during continuous active oscillation, as well as narrowband sensitivity in passive Ramsey-like mode with translation of the narrowband detection in frequency using spin-echo techniques. The sensor operates with a sensitivity of 190 pT/Hz^(1/2) at 1 kHz and effective sensing volume of 2 * 10^-3 mm^3. Fundamental quantum limits on the magnetic field sensitivity of an ideal detector are also considered.

id: 1210.3713
title: Mid-IR frequency measurement using an optical frequency comb and a long-distance remote frequency reference
authors: Bruno Chanteau, Olivier Lopez, Wei Zhang, Giorgio Santarelli, Yann Le Coq, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Auguste, Beno?t Darqui¨¦, Christian Chardonnet, Anne Amy-Klein
comments: 
journal: Optics Express 20, 21 (2012) 23518-23526
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3713
abstract: We have built a frequency chain which enables to measure the absolute frequency of a laser emitting in the 28-31 THz frequency range and stabilized onto a molecular absorption line. The set-up uses an optical frequency comb and an ultrastable 1.55 $\mu$m frequency reference signal, transferred from LNE-SYRTE to LPL through an optical link. We are now progressing towards the stabilization of the mid-IR laser via the frequency comb and the extension of this technique to quantum cascade lasers. Such a development is very challenging for ultrahigh resolution molecular spectroscopy and fundamental tests of physics with molecules.

id: 1210.3908
title: The Mean: Axiomatics, Generalizations,Applications
authors: John E. Gray, Andrew Vogt
comments: submitted to Quarterly Journal of Applied Mathematics
journal: 
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3908
abstract: We present an axiomatic approach to the mean and discuss generalizations of the mean, including one due to Kolmogorov based on the Weak Law of Large Numbers. We offer examples and counterexamples, describe conventional and unconventional uses of the mean in statistical mechanics, and resolve an anomaly in quantum theory concerning apparent simultaneous coexistence of means and variances of observables. These issues all arise from the familiar definition of the mean.

id: 1210.3963
title: Storage and retrieval of a light in telecomband in a cold atomic ensemble
authors: Dong-Sheng Ding, Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Bao-Sen Shi, Xu-Bo Zou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: We solve the question: Can Rubidium atom store telecom light?
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3963
abstract: A telecom photon is a suitable information carrier in a fiber-based quantum network due to its lower transmission loss in fiber. Because of the paucity of suitable atomic system, usually the photon connecting different memories is in near infrared band, therefore the frequency conversion of the photon in and out of telecomband has to be required to realize the interface between the atomic-based memory and the photon-based carrier. In order for that, two atomic or other systems which could realize the frequency conversion have to be taken into account, and besides, one more atomic system as a storing media is need. So the ability of storing a photon in telecomband is an interesting and exciting topic. In this work, we give a first experimental proof of principle of storing a light in telecomband. The telecom light is directly stored and retrieved later through two nonlinear processes via an inverted-Y configuration in a cold atomic ensemble, therefore the interface between the memory and photon in other proposals is not needed. We believe our work may open a new avenue for long-distance quantum communication.

id: 1210.3976
title: A perturbative probabilistic approach to quantum many-body systems
authors: Andrea Di Stefano, Massimo Ostilli, Carlo Presilla
comments: 39 pages, 1 picture, 5 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P04002
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3976
abstract: In the probabilistic approach to quantum many-body systems, the ground-state energy is the solution of a nonlinear scalar equation written either as a cumulant expansion or as an expectation with respect to a probability distribution of the potential and hopping (amplitude and phase) values recorded during an infinitely lengthy evolution. We introduce a perturbative expansion of this probability distribution which conserves, at any order, a multinomial-like structure, typical of uncorrelated systems, but includes, order by order, the statistical correlations provided by the cumulant expansion. The proposed perturbative scheme is successfully tested in the case of pseudo spin 1/2 hard-core boson Hubbard models also when affected by a phase problem due to an applied magnetic field.

id: 1210.3982
title: Gradiometric flux qubits with tunable gap
authors: M. J. Schwarz, J. Goetz, Z. Jiang, T. Niemczyk, F. Deppe, A. Marx, R. Gross
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 045001
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.3982
abstract: For gradiometric three-Josephson-junction flux qubits, we perform a systematic study on the tuning of the minimal transition frequency, the so-called qubit gap. By replacing one of the qubit's Josephson junctions by a dc SQUID, the critical current of this SQUID and, in turn, the qubit gap can be tuned in situ by a control flux threading the SQUID loop. We present spectroscopic measurements demonstrating a well-defined controllability of the qubit gap between zero and more than 10 GHz. In the future, this enables one to tune the qubit into and out of resonance with other superconducting quantum circuits, while operating the qubit at its symmetry point with optimal dephasing properties. The experimental data agree very well with model calculations based on the full qubit Hamiltonian. From a numerical fit, we determine the Josephson coupling and the charging energies of the qubit junctions. The derived values agree well with those measured for other junctions fabricated on the same chip. We also demonstrate the biasing of gradiometric flux qubits near the symmetry point by trapping an odd number of flux quanta in the gradiometer loop. In this way, we study the effect of the significant kinetic inductance, thereby obtaining valuable information for the qubit design.

id: 1210.4075
title: The Weyl-Wigner-Moyal Formalism for Spin
authors: Feifei Li, Carol Braun, Anupam Garg
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 102, 60006 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4075
abstract: The Weyl-Wigner-Moyal formalism is developed for spin by means of a correspondence between spherical harmonics and spherical harmonic tensor operators. The analogue of the Moyal expansion is developed for the Weyl symbol of the product of two operators in terms of the symbols for the individual operators, and it is shown that in the classical limit, the Weyl symbol for a commutator equals $i$ times the Poisson bracket of the corresponding Weyl symbols. It is also found that, to the same order, there is no correction in the symbol for the anticommutator.

id: 1210.4183
title: Effective potential renormalization and polaronic mass shift in a trapped dynamical impurity-luttinger liquid system
authors: Julius Bonart, Leticia F. Cugliandolo
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: EPL 101 (2013) 16003
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4183
abstract: Recent experiments with cold atoms on the impurity motion in one-dimensional liquids of interacting bosons have revealed an interesting interplay between the polaronic impurity mass shift and the renormalization of the optical potential. We show that the influence of the external trap on the Bose gas leads to a steeper effective potential for the impurity. We propose a framework in which this potential renormalization and the mass shift can be quantitatively understood by combining a semi-classical theory of density wave excitations in the Luttinger liquid with the non equilibrium formalism of a quantum Brownian particle. The obtained theoretical results reproduce well recent experimental data.

id: 1210.4192
title: Spectral function of a scalar boson coupled to fermions
authors: Francesco Giacosa, Giuseppe Pagliara
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 025010 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4192
abstract: We present the calculation of the spectral function of an unstable scalar boson coupled to fermions as resulting from the resummation of the one loop diagrams in the scalar particle self energy. We work with a large but finite high-energy cutoff: in this way, the spectral function of the scalar field is always correctly normalized to unity, independently on the value of the cutoff. We show that this high energy cutoff affects the Breit-Wigner width of the unstable particle: the larger the cutoff, the smaller is the width at fixed coupling. Thus, the existence of a high energy cutoff (alias minimal length), and for instance the possible opening of new degrees of freedom beyond that energy scale, could then be in principle proven by measuring, at lower energy scales, the line shape of the unstable scalar state. Although the Lagrangian here considered represents only a toy-model, we discuss possible future extensions of our work which could be relevant for particle physics phenomenology.

id: 1210.4208
title: Spontaneous emission in the presence of a spherical plasmonic cloak
authors: W. J. M. Kort-Kamp, F. S. S. Rosa, F. A. Pinheiro, C. Farina
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4208
abstract: We investigate the spontaneous emission of a two-level atom placed in the vicinities of a plasmonic cloak composed of a coated sphere. In the dipole approximation, we show that the spontaneous emission rate can be reduced to its vacuum value provided the atomic emission frequency lies within the plasmonic cloak frequency operation range. Considering the current status of plasmonic cloaking devices, this condition may be fulfilled for many atomic species so that we argue that atoms with a sufficiently strong transition can be used as quantum, local probes for the efficiency of plasmonic cloaks.

id: 1210.4241
title: Variations on the adiabatic invariance: the Lorentz pendulum
authors: Luis L.Sanchez-Soto, J. Zoido
comments: To appear in American Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4241
abstract: We analyze a very simple variant of the Lorentz pendulum, in which the length is varied exponentially, instead of uniformly, as it is assumed in the standard case. We establish quantitative criteria for the condition of adiabatic changes in both pendula and put in evidence their substantially different physical behavior with regard to adiabatic invariance.

id: 1210.4303
title: Microwave Quantum Optics with an Artificial Atom
authors: Io-Chun Hoi, C.M. Wilson, G?ran Johansson, Joel Lindkvist, Borja Peropadre, Tauno Palomaki, Per Delsing
comments: 
journal: 2013 New J. Phys. 15 025011
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4303
abstract: We address the recent advances on microwave quantum optics with artificial atoms. This field relies on the fact that the coupling between a superconducting artificial atom and propagating microwave photons in a 1D open transmission line can be made strong enough to observe quantum coherent effects, without using any cavity to confine the microwave photons. We investigate the scattering properties in such a system with resonant coherent microwaves. We observe the strong nonlinearity of the artificial atom and under strong driving we observe the Mollow triplet. By applying two resonant tones, we also observe the Autler-Townes splitting. By exploiting these effects, we demonstrate two quantum devices at the single-photon level in the microwave regime: the single-photon router and the photon-number filter. These devices provide essential steps towards the realization of an on-chip quantum network.

id: 1210.4309
title: Adiabatic cooling of a single trapped ion
authors: Gregers Poulsen, Michael Drewsen
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4309
abstract: We present experimental results on adiabatic cooling of a single 40Ca+ ion in a linear radiofrequency trap. After a period of laser cooling, the secular frequency along the rf-field-free axis is adiabatically lowered by nearly a factor of eight from 583 kHz to 75 kHz. For an ion originally Doppler laser cooled to a temperature of 0.65 +/- 0.03 mK, a temperature of 87 +/- 7 \mu K is measured after the adiabatic expansion. Applying the same adiabatic cooling procedure to a single sideband cooled ion in the ground state (P0 = 0.978 +/- 0.002) resulted in a final ground state occupation of 0.947 +/- 0.005. Both results are in excellent agreement with an essentially fully adiabatic behavior. The results have a wide range of perspectives within such diverse fields as ion based quantum information science, high resolution molecular ion spectroscopy and ion chemistry at ultra-low temperatures.

id: 1210.4384
title: Entanglement signatures for the dimerization transition in the Majumdar-Ghosh model
authors: M. S. Ramkarthik, V. Ravi Chandra, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012302 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4384
abstract: The transition from a gapless liquid to a gapped dimerized ground state that occurs in the frustrated antiferromagnetic Majumdar-Ghosh (or $J_1-J_2$ Heisenberg) model is revisited from the point of view of entanglement. We study the evolution of entanglement spectra, a "projected subspace" block entropy, and concurrence in the Schmidt vectors through the transition. The standard tool of Schmidt decomposition along with the existence of the unique MG point where the ground states are degenerate and known exactly, suggests the projection into two orthogonal subspaces that is useful even away from this point. Of these, one is a dominant five dimensional subspace containing the complete state at the MG point and the other contributes marginally, albeit with increasing weight as the number of spins is increased. We find that the marginally contributing subspace has a minimum von Neumann entropy in the vicinity of the dimerization transition. Entanglement content between pairs of spins in the Schmidt vectors, studied via concurrence, shows that those belonging to the dominant five dimensional subspace display a clear progress towards dimerization, with the concurrence vanishing on odd/even sublattices, again in the vicinity of the dimerization, and maximizing in the even/odd sublattices at the MG point. In contrast, study of the Schmidt vectors in the marginally contributing subspace, as well as in the projection of the ground state in this space, display pair concurrence which decrease on both the sublattices as the MG point is approached. The robustness of these observations indicate their possible usefulness in the study of models that have similar transitions, and have hitherto been difficult to study using standard entanglement signatures.

id: 1210.4413
title: Path Entanglement of Continuous-Variable Quantum Microwaves
authors: E. P. Menzel, R. Di Candia, F. Deppe, P. Eder, L. Zhong, M. Ihmig, M. Haeberlein, A. Baust, E. Hoffmann, D. Ballester, K. Inomata, T. Yamamoto, Y. Nakamura, E. Solano, A. Marx, R. Gross
comments: 16 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 250502 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4413
abstract: Path entanglement constitutes an essential resource in quantum information and communication protocols. Here, we demonstrate frequency-degenerate entanglement between continuous-variable quantum microwaves propagating along two spatially separated paths. We combine a squeezed and a vacuum state using a microwave beam splitter. Via correlation measurements, we detect and quantify the path entanglement contained in the beam splitter output state. Our experiments open the avenue to quantum teleportation, quantum communication, or quantum radar with continuous variables at microwave frequencies.

id: 1210.4455
title: A silicon-chip source of bright photon-pair comb
authors: Wei C. Jiang, Xiyuan Lu, Jidong Zhang, Oskar Painter, Qiang Lin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4455
abstract: Integrated quantum photonics relies critically on the purity, scalability, integrability, and flexibility of a photon source to support diverse quantum functionalities on a single chip. Up to date, it remains an open challenge to realize an efficient monolithic photon-pair source for on-chip application. Here we report a device on the silicon-on-insulator platform that utilizes dramatic cavity enhanced four-wave mixing in a high-Q silicon microdisk resonator. The device is able to produce high-purity photon pairs in a comb fashion, with an unprecedented spectral brightness of $6.24 \times 10^7 {\rm pair/s/mW^2/GHz}$ and photon-pair correlation with a coincidence-to-accidental ratio of $1386 \pm 278$ while pumped with a continuous-wave laser. The superior performance, together with the structural compactness and CMOS compatibility, opens up a great avenue towards quantum silicon photonics with unprecedented capability of multi-channel parallel information processing for both integrated quantum computing and long-haul quantum communication.

id: 1210.4456
title: Quantizing G-connections via the tangent groupoid
authors: Alan Lai
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4456
abstract: A description of the space of G-connections using the tangent groupoid is given. As the tangent groupoid parameter is away from zero, the G-connections act as convolution operators on a Hilbert space. The gauge action is examined in the tangent groupoid description of the G-connections. Tetrads are formulated as Dirac type operators. The connection variables and tetrad variables in Ashtekar's gravity are presented as operators on a Hilbert space.

id: 1210.4466
title: Squeezing and robustness of frictionless cooling strategies
authors: S. Choi, R. Onofrio, B. Sundaram
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures; To appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A Vol.86, 043436 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4466
abstract: Quantum control strategies that provide shortcuts to adiabaticity are increasingly considered in various contexts including atomic cooling. Recent studies have emphasized practical issues in order to reduce the gap between the idealized models and actual ongoing implementations. We rephrase here the cooling features in terms of a peculiar squeezing effect, and use it to parametrize the robustness of frictionless cooling techniques with respect to noise-induced deviations from the ideal time-dependent trajectory for the trapping frequency. We finally discuss qualitative issues for the experimental implementation of this scheme using bichromatic optical traps and lattices, which seem especially suitable for cooling Fermi-Bose mixtures and for investigating equilibration of negative temperature states, respectively.

id: 1210.4473
title: Nonquantum Cognition
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4473
abstract: The Hilbert space structure of classical field theory is proposed as a general theoretical framework to model human cognitive processes which do not often follow classical (Bayesian) probability principles. This leads to an extension of the circumplex model of affect and a Poincar\'{e} sphere representation. A specific toy field theoretic model of the brain as a coherent structure in the presence of noise is also proposed that agrees qualitatively with Pavlovian fear conditioning studies.

id: 1210.4486
title: Entanglement in permutation symmetric states, fractal dimensions, and geometric quantum mechanics
authors: Olalla A. Castro-Alvaredo, Benjamin Doyon
comments: 28 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P02016
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4486
abstract: We study the von Neumann and R\'enyi bipartite entanglement entropies in the thermodynamic limit of many-body quantum states with spin-s sites, that possess full symmetry under exchange of sites. It turns out that there is essentially a one-to-one correspondence between such thermodynamic states and probability measures on CP^{2s}. Let a measure be supported on a set of possibly fractal real dimension d with respect to the Study-Fubini metric of CP^{2s}. Let m be the number of sites in a subsystem of the bipartition. We give evidence that in the limit where m goes to infinity, the entanglement entropy diverges like (d/2)log(m). Further, if the measure is supported on a submanifold of CP^{2s} and can be described by a density f with respect to the metric induced by the Study-Fubini metric, we give evidence that the correction term is simply related to the entropy associated to f: the geometric entropy of geometric quantum mechanics. This extends results obtained by the authors in a recent letter where the spin-1/2 case was considered. Here we provide more examples as well as detailed accounts of the ideas and computations leading to these general results. For special choices of the state in the spin-s situation, we recover the scaling behaviour previously observed by Popkov et al., showing that their result is but a special case of a more general scaling law.

id: 1210.4555
title: Alternation of sign of magnetization current in driven XXZ chains with twisted XY boundary gradients
authors: V. Popkov
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2012) P12015
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4555
abstract: We investigate an open XXZ spin 1/2 chain driven out of equilibrium by coupling with boundary reservoirs targeting different spin orientations in XY plane. Symmetries of the model are revealed which appear to be different for spin chains of odd and even sizes. As a result, spin current is found to alternate with chain length, ruling out the possibility of ballistic transport. Heat transport is switched off completely by virtue of another global symmetry. Further, we investigate the model numerically and analytically. At strong coupling, we find exact nonequilibrium steady state using a perturbation theory. The state is determined by solving secular conditions which guarantee self-consistency of the perturbative expansion. We find nontrivial dependence of the magnetization current on the spin chain anisotropy $\Delta$ in the critical region $|\Delta|<1$, and a phenomenon of tripling of the twisting angle along the chain for narrow lacunes of $\Delta$.

id: 1210.4628
title: Possible daily and seasonal variations in quantum interference induced by Chern-Simons gravity
authors: Hiroki Okawara, Kei Yamada, Hideki Asada
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures; accepted by PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.109:231101,2012
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4628
abstract: Possible effects of Chern-Simons (CS) gravity on a quantum interferometer turn out to be dependent on the latitude and direction of the interferometer on the Earth in orbital motion around the Sun. Daily and seasonal variations in phase shifts are predicted with an estimate of the size of the effects, wherefore neutron interferometry with $\sim 5$ meters arm length and $\sim 10^{-4}$ phase measurement accuracy would place a bound on a CS parameter comparable to Gravity Probe B satellite.

id: 1210.4632
title: Ladder Operators for Lam¨¦ Spheroconal Harmonic Polynomials
authors: Ricardo M¨¦ndez-Fragoso, Eugenio Ley-Koo
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 074, 16 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4632
abstract: Three sets of ladder operators in spheroconal coordinates and their respective actions on Lam\'e spheroconal harmonic polynomials are presented in this article. The polynomials are common eigenfunctions of the square of the angular momentum operator and of the asymmetry distribution Hamiltonian for the rotations of asymmetric molecules, in the body-fixed frame with principal axes. The first set of operators for Lam\'e polynomials of a given species and a fixed value of the square of the angular momentum raise and lower and lower and raise in complementary ways the quantum numbers $n_1$ and $n_2$ counting the respective nodal elliptical cones. The second set of operators consisting of the cartesian components $\hat L_x$, $\hat L_y$, $\hat L_z$ of the angular momentum connect pairs of the four species of polynomials of a chosen kind and angular momentum. The third set of operators, the cartesian components $\hat p_x$, $\hat p_y$, $\hat p_z$ of the linear momentum, connect pairs of the polynomials differing in one unit in their angular momentum and in their parities. Relationships among spheroconal harmonics at the levels of the three sets of operators are illustrated.

id: 1210.4645
title: Dispersive Readout of a Few-Electron Double Quantum Dot with Fast rf Gate-Sensors
authors: J. I. Colless, A. C. Mahoney, J. M. Hornibrook, A. C. Doherty, D. J. Reilly, H. Lu, A. C. Gossard
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4645
abstract: We report the dispersive charge-state readout of a double quantum dot in the few-electron regime using the in situ gate electrodes as sensitive detectors. We benchmark this gate-sensing technique against the well established quantum point contact (QPC) charge detector and find comparable performance with a bandwidth of 10 MHz and an equivalent charge sensitivity of 6.3 x 10-3 e/ \sqrt Hz. Dispersive gate-sensing alleviates the burden of separate charge detectors for quantum dot systems and promises to enable readout of qubits in scaled-up arrays.

id: 1210.4817
title: Majorana modes and complex band structure of quantum wires
authors: Lloren? Serra
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 075440 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4817
abstract: We describe Majorana edge states of a semi-infinite wire using the complex band structure approach. In this method the edge state at a given energy is built as a superposition of evanescent waves. It is shown that the superposition can not always satisfy the required boundary condition, thus restricting the existence of edge modes. We discuss purely 1D and 2D systems, focussing in the latter case on the effect of the Rashba mixing term.

id: 1210.4834
title: Persistent currents in spinor condensates
authors: Scott Beattie, Stuart Moulder, Richard J. Fletcher, Zoran Hadzibabic
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 025301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4834
abstract: We create and study persistent currents in a toroidal two-component Bose gas, consisting of $^{87}$Rb atoms in two different spin states. For a large spin-population imbalance we observe supercurrents persisting for over two minutes. However we find that the supercurrent is unstable for spin polarisation below a well defined critical value. We also investigate the role of phase coherence between the two spin components and show that only the magnitude of the spin-polarisation vector, rather than its orientation in spin space, is relevant for supercurrent stability.

id: 1210.4946
title: Note on the Analytical Solution of the Rabi Model
authors: Daniel Braak
comments: This version contains the reply to a comment on the previous version
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 525, L23 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4946
abstract: It is shown that a recent critique (arXiv:1210.1130 and arXiv:1211.4639) concerning the analytical solution of the Rabi model is unfounded.

id: 1210.4952
title: Transport of Entanglement
authors: Manabu Machida, Vadim A Markel, John C Schotland
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.4952
abstract: We consider the propagation of two-photon light in a random medium. We show that the Wigner distribution of the two-photon wave function obeys an equation that is analogous to the radiative transport equation for classical light. Using this result, we predict that the entanglement of a photon pair is destroyed with propagation.

id: 1210.5022
title: Does coherence enhance transport in photosynthesis?
authors: Ivan Kassal, Joel Yuen-Zhou, Saleh Rahimi-Keshari
comments: 7 pages
journal: J. Phys. Chem. Lett., 4, 362 (2013)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5022
abstract: Recent observations of coherence in photosynthetic complexes have led to the question of whether quantum effects can occur in vivo, not under femtosecond laser pulses but in incoherent sunlight and at steady state, and, if so, whether the coherence explains the high exciton transfer efficiency. We distinguish several types of coherence and show that although some photosynthetic pathways are partially coherent processes, photosynthesis in nature proceeds through stationary states. This distinction allows us to rule out several mechanisms of transport enhancement in sunlight. In particular, although they are crucial for understanding exciton transport, neither wavelike motion nor microscopic coherence, on their own, enhance the efficiency. By contrast, two partially coherent mechanisms---ENAQT and supertransfer---can enhance transport even in sunlight and thus constitute motifs for the optimisation of artificial sunlight harvesting. Finally, we clarify the importance of ultrafast spectroscopy in understanding incoherent processes.

id: 1210.5030
title: Zitterbewegung effect in spin-orbit coupled spin-1 ultracold atoms
authors: Yi-Cai Zhang, Song-Wei Song, Chao-Fei Liu, W. M. Liu
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 023612 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5030
abstract: The Zitterbewegung effect in spin-orbit coupled spin-1 cold atoms is investigated in the presence of the Zeeman field and a harmonic trap. It is shown that the Zeeman field and the harmonic trap have significant effect on the Zitterbewegung oscillatory behaviors. The external Zeeman field could suppress or enhance the Zitterbewegung amplitude and change the frequencies of oscillation. A much slowly damping Zitterbewegung oscillation can be achieved by adjusting both the linear and quadratic Zeeman field. Multi-frequency Zitterbewegung oscillation can be induced by the applied Zeeman field. In the presence of the harmonic trap, the subpackets corresponding to different eigenenergies would always keep coherent, resulting in the persistent Zitterbewegung oscillations. The Zitterbewegung oscillation would display very complicated and irregular oscillation characteristics due to the coexistence of different frequencies of the Zitterbewegung oscillation. Numerical results show that, the Zitterbewegung effect is robust even in the presence of interaction between atoms.

id: 1210.5048
title: Convergence of SDP hierarchies for polynomial optimization on the hypersphere
authors: Andrew C. Doherty, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 45 pages, amsmath, comments welcome, for readers in quantum information: contains de Finetti theorem, v2: improved explanations, additional bound
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5048
abstract: We show how to bound the accuracy of a family of semi-definite programming relaxations for the problem of polynomial optimization on the hypersphere. Our method is inspired by a set of results from quantum information known as quantum de Finetti theorems. In particular, we prove a de Finetti theorem for a special class of real symmetric matrices to establish the existence of approximate representing measures for moment matrix relaxations.

id: 1210.5050
title: Cross-correlations mediated by Majorana bound states
authors: Peiyue Wang, Yunshan Cao, Ming Gong, Gang Xiong, Xin-Qi Li
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 103, 57016 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5050
abstract: We consider the correlated parallel transport through two quantum dots which are tunnel-coupled to the ends of a semiconductor nanowire where the Majorana bound states (MBSs) may emerge under proper conditions. In terms of the cross-correlation of currents, we reveal unusual behaviors originated from the nonlocal MBSs, including such as the distinct symmetry and antisymmetry of the spectral density in response to the dot-level modulations, and the vanished cross correlation occurred when any of the dot-levels is in resonance with the Majorana zero mode.

id: 1210.5055
title: Curvature-dependent formalism, Schr?dinger equation and energy levels for the harmonic oscillator on three-dimensional spherical and hyperbolic spaces
authors: Jos¨¦ F. Cari?ena, Manuel F. Ra?ada, Mariano Santander
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 265303 (14pp) (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5055
abstract: A nonlinear model representing the quantum harmonic oscillator on the three-dimensional spherical and hyperbolic spaces, $S_\k^3$ ($\kappa>0$) and $H_k^3$ ($\kappa<0$), is studied. The curvature $\k$ is considered as a parameter and then the radial Schr\"odinger equation becomes a $\k$-dependent Gauss hypergeometric equation that can be considered as a $\k$-deformation of the confluent hypergeometric equation that appears in the Euclidean case. The energy spectrum and the wavefunctions are exactly obtained in both the three-dimensional sphere $S_\k^3$ ($\kappa>0$) and the hyperbolic space $H_k^3$ ($\kappa<0$). A comparative study between the spherical and the hyperbolic quantum results is presented.

id: 1210.5079
title: Efficient Raman Frequency Conversion by Feedbacks of Pump and Stokes Fields
authors: Bing Chen, Kai Zhang, Chun-Hua Yuan, Chengling Bian, Cheng Qiu, L. Q. Chen, Z. Y. Ou, Weiping Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 5 figure
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5079
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate efficient Raman conversion to respective Stokes and anti-Stokes fields in both pulsed and continuous modes with a Rb-87 atomic vapor cell. The conversion efficiency is about 40-50% for the Stokes field and 20-30% for the anti-Stokes field, respectively. This conversion process is realized with feedback of both the Raman pump and the frequency-converted fields (Stokes or anti-Stokes). The experimental setup is very simple and can be applied easily to produce the light source with larger frequency difference using other Raman media. They may have wide applications in nonlinear optics, atomic physics, quantum optics and precise measurement.

id: 1210.5138
title: Directions In Optical Angular Momentum
authors: Matt M. Coles, David L. Andrews
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5138
abstract: For paraxial and non-paraxial light, numerous measures of electromagnetic attribute are expressible in terms of photon annihilation and creation. Accordingly, energy, angular momentum and chirality measures acquire a consistent interpretation. From the photonic nature of light, it emerges that an infinite hierarchy of spin-type measures depend on a difference in number operators for modes of opposing helicity, pure circular polarization giving maximal values. Measures of orbital angular momentum are determined by a sum of corresponding number operators. By analysis of electric and magnetic features in the reflection of circular polarizations, regions of prominent chiral interaction in the interference are identified.

id: 1210.5168
title: Noncollinear Magnetic Order Stabilized by Entangled Spin-Orbital Fluctuations
authors: Wojciech Brzezicki, Jacek Dziarmaga, Andrzej M. Ole?
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures and supplemental material (4 pages, 3 figures); accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 237201 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5168
abstract: Quantum phase transitions in the two-dimensional Kugel-Khomski model on a square lattice are studied using the plaquette mean field theory and the entanglement renormalization ansatz. When $3z^2-r^2$ orbitals are favored by the crystal field and Hund's exchange is finite, both methods give a noncollinear exotic magnetic order which consists of four sublattices with mutually orthogonal nearest neighbor and antiferromagnetic second neighbor spins. We derive effective frustrated spin model with second and third neighbor spin interactions which stabilize this phase and follow from spin-orbital quantum fluctuations involving spin singlets entangled with orbital excitations.

id: 1210.5170
title: Quantization of almost-circular orbits in the Fokker action formalism. General scheme
authors: Askold Duviryak
comments: 45 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5170
abstract: General two-particle system is considered within the formalism of Fokker-type action integrals. It is assumed that the system is invariant with respect to the Aristotle group which is a common subgroup of the Galileo and Poincar\'e groups. It is shown that equations of motion of such system admit circular orbit solutions. The dynamics of perturbations of these solutions is studied. It is described by means of a linear homogeneous set of time-nonlocal equations and is analyzed in terms of eigenfrequencies and eigenmodes. The Hamiltonian description of the system is built in the almost circular orbit approximation. The Aristotle-invariance of the system is exploit to avoid a double count of degrees of freedom and to select physical modes. The quantization procedure and a construction of energy spectrum of the system is proposed.

id: 1210.5174
title: Dynamics of heat transfer between nano systems
authors: Svend-Age Biehs, Girish S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 30, Issue 3, pp. 700-707 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5174
abstract: We develop a dynamical theory of heat transfer between two nano systems. In particular, we consider the resonant heat transfer between two nanoparticles due to the coupling of localized surface modes having a finite spectral width. We model the coupled nanosystem by two coupled quantum mechanical oscillators, each interacting with its own heat bath, and obtain a master equation for the dynamics of heat transfer. The damping rates in the master equation are related to the lifetimes of localized plasmons in the nanoparticles. We study the dynamics towards the steady state and establish connection with the standard theory of heat transfer in steady state. For strongly coupled nano particles we predict Rabi oscillations in the mean occupation number of surface plasmons in each nano particle.

id: 1210.5182
title: Reducing Spacetime to Binary Information
authors: Silke Weinfurtner, Gemma De las Cuevas, Miguel Angel Martin-Delgado, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 5 pages main text, 6 pages supplementary information, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5182
abstract: We present a new description of discrete space-time in 1+1 dimensions in terms of a set of elementary geometrical units that represent its independent classical degrees of freedom. This is achieved by means of a binary encoding that is ergodic in the class of space-time manifolds respecting coordinate invariance of general relativity. Space-time fluctuations can be represented in a classical lattice gas model whose Boltzmann weights are constructed with the discretized form of the Einstein-Hilbert action. Within this framework, it is possible to compute basic quantities such as the Ricci curvature tensor and the Einstein equations, and to evaluate the path integral of discrete gravity. The description as a lattice gas model also provides a novel way of quantization and, at the same time, to quantum simulation of fluctuating space-time.

id: 1210.5192
title: Algebraic special functions and so(3,2)
authors: E. Celeghini, M.A. del Olmo
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5192
abstract: A ladder structure of operators is presented for the associated Legendre polynomials and the spherical harmonics showing that both belong to the same irreducible representation of so(3,2). As both are also bases of square-integrable functions, the universal enveloping algebra of so(3,2) is thus shown to be isomorphic to the space of linear operators acting on the L^2 functions defined on (-1,1) x Z and on the sphere S^2, respectively. The presence of a ladder structure is suggested to be the general condition to obtain a Lie algebra representation defining in this way the "algebraic special functions" that are proposed to be the connection between Lie algebras and square-integrable functions so that the space of linear operators on the L^2 functions is isomorphic to the universal enveloping algebra.

id: 1210.5250
title: Coherent anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy in the presence of strong resonant signal from background molecules
authors: Martin Bitter, Valery Milner
comments: 5pages, 4figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5250
abstract: Optical spectroscopy with broadband femtosecond laser pulses often involves simultaneous excitation of multiple molecular species with close resonance frequencies. Interpreting the collective optical response from molecular mixtures typically requires Fourier analysis of the detected time-resolved signal. We propose an alternative method of separating coherent optical responses from two molecular species with neighboring excitation resonances (here, vibrational modes of oxygen and carbon dioxide). We utilize ro-vibrational coupling as a mechanism of suppressing the strong vibrational response from the dominating molecular species (O$_{2}$). Coherent ro-vibrational dynamics lead to long "silence windows" of zero signal from oxygen molecules. In these silence windows, the detected signal stems solely from the minority species (CO$_{2}$) enabling background-free detection and characterization of the O$_2$/CO$_2$ mixing ratio. In comparison to a Fourier analysis, our technique does not require femtosecond time resolution or time-delay scanning.

id: 1210.5272
title: Distilling one, two and entangled pairs of photons from a quantum dot with cavity QED effects and spectral filtering
authors: Elena del Valle
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures. Submitted to the focus issue of New J. Phys. on "Cavity and Circuit Quantum Electrodynamics in Solids"
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 025019 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5272
abstract: A quantum dot can be used as a source of one- and two-photon states and of polarisation entangled photon pairs. The emission of such states is investigated from the point of view of frequency-resolved two-photon correlations. These follow from a spectral filtering of the dot emission, which can be achieved either by using a cavity or by placing a number of interference filters before the detectors. The combination of these various options is used to iteratively refine the emission in a "distillation" process and arrive at highly correlated states with a high purity. So-called "leapfrog processes" where the system undergoes a direct transition from the biexciton state to the ground state by direct emission of two photons, are shown to be central to the quantum features of such sources. Optimum configurations are singled out in a global theoretical picture that unifies the various regimes of operation.

id: 1210.5331
title: Recurrence relations and path representations of matrix elements of an SU(1,1) algebra
authors: C. V. Sukumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5331
abstract: It is shown that a SU(1,1) algebra may be used to provide a unified description of the simple hamonic oscillator and the angular momentum algebras and a class of other semi-infinite algebras. A normal ordered representation of a Unitary operator $U$ constructed from the generators of a SU(1,1) algebra, which is a generalisation of the Baker- Campbell - Hausdorff relation for Lie algebras, is given. It is shown that the normal ordered representatiion of $U$ may be used to calculate expectation values which are functions of the parameters used to construct the operator. The functions so constructed satisfy certain recurrence relations and the entire set of functions may be interpreted in terms of diagrams similar to the Pascal triangle for binomial coefficients. Coherent states, squeezed states and rotation matrices of the angular momentum algebra emerge as special cases.

id: 1210.5334
title: A Higher Order GUP with Minimal Length Uncertainty and Maximal Momentum II: Applications
authors: Pouria Pedram
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, second part of arXiv:1110.2999, to appear in Physics Letters B
journal: Phys. Lett. B 718 (2012) 638
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5334
abstract: In a recent paper, we presented a nonperturbative higher order generalized uncertainty principle (GUP) that is consistent with various proposals of quantum gravity such as string theory, loop quantum gravity, doubly special relativity, and predicts both a minimal length uncertainty and a maximal observable momentum. In this Letter, we find exact maximally localized states and present a formally self-adjoint and naturally perturbative representation of this modified algebra. Then we extend this GUP to D dimensions that will be shown it is noncommutative and find invariant density of states. We show that the presence of the maximal momentum results in upper bounds on the energy spectrum of the free particle and the particle in box. Moreover, this form of GUP modifies blackbody radiation spectrum at high frequencies and predicts a finite cosmological constant. Although it does not solve the cosmological constant problem, it gives a better estimation with respect to the presence of just the minimal length.

id: 1210.5359
title: Entanglement negativity in extended systems: A field theoretical approach
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, John Cardy, Erik Tonni
comments: 46 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P02008
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5359
abstract: We report on a systematic approach for the calculation of the negativity in the ground state of a one-dimensional quantum field theory. The partial transpose rho_A^{T_2} of the reduced density matrix of a subsystem A=A_1 U A_2 is explicitly constructed as an imaginary-time path integral and from this the replicated traces Tr (rho_A^{T_2})^n are obtained. The logarithmic negativity E= log||rho_A^{T_2}|| is then the continuation to n->1 of the traces of the even powers. For pure states, this procedure reproduces the known results. We then apply this method to conformally invariant field theories in several different physical situations for infinite and finite systems and without or with boundaries. In particular, in the case of two adjacent intervals of lengths L1, L2 in an infinite system, we derive the result E\sim(c/4) ln(L1 L2/(L1+L2)), where c is the central charge. For the more complicated case of two disjoint intervals, we show that the negativity depends only on the harmonic ratio of the four end-points and so is manifestly scale invariant. We explicitly calculate the scale-invariant functions for the replicated traces in the case of the CFT for the free compactified boson, but we have not so far been able to obtain the n->1 continuation for the negativity even in the limit of large compactification radius. We have checked all our findings against exact numerical results for the harmonic chain which is described by a non-compactified free boson.

id: 1210.5379
title: Quantum-classical lifetimes of Rydberg molecules
authors: Andrej Junginger, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 46, 085201 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5379
abstract: A remarkable property of Rydberg atoms is the possibility to create molecules formed by one highly excited atom and another atom in the ground state. The first realisation of such a Rydberg molecule has opened an active field of physical investigations, and showed that its basic properties can be described within a simple model regarding the ground state atom as a small perturber that is bound by a low-energy scattering process with the Rydberg electron [C. H. Greene et al, Phys. Rev. Lett., 85: 2458 (2000)]. Besides the good agreement between theory and the experiment concerning the vibrational states of the molecule, the experimental observations yield the astonishing feature that the lifetime of the molecule is clearly reduced as compared to the bare Rydberg atom [B. Butscher et al, J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 184004 (2011)]. With focus on this yet unexplained observation, we investigate in this paper the vibrational ground state of the molecule in a quantum-classical framework. We show that the Rydberg wave function is continuously detuned by the presence of the moving ground state atom and that the timescale on which the detuning significantly exceeds the natural linewidth is in good agreement with the observed reduced lifetimes of the Rydberg molecule.

id: 1210.5399
title: On the structure of positive maps II: low dimensional matrix algebras
authors: Wladyslaw A. Majewski, Tomasz I. Tylec
comments: Lemma 5 (in previous version, false) is removed. We would be very grateful for any remark
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5399
abstract: We use a new idea that emerged in the examination of exposed positive maps between matrix algebras to investigate in more detail the difference between positive maps on $M_2(C)$ and $M_3(C)$. Our main tool stems from classical Grothendieck theorem on tensor product of Banach spaces and is an older and more general version of Choi-Jamiolkowski isomorphism between positive maps and block positive Choi matrices. It takes into account the correct topology on the latter set that is induced by the uniform topology on positive maps. In this setting we show that in $M_2(C)$ case a large class of nice positive maps can be generated from the small set of maps represented by self-adjoint unitaries, $2 P_x$ with $x$ maximally entangled vector and $p\otimes 1$ with $p$ rank 1 projector. We show why this construction fails in $M_3(C)$ case. There are also similarities. In both $M_2(C)$ and $M_3(C)$ cases any unital positive map represented by self-adjoint unitary is unitarily equivalent to the transposition map. Consequently we obtain a large family of exposed maps. We also investigate a convex structure of the Choi map, the first example of non-decomposable map. As a result the nature of the Choi map will be explained. This gives an information on the origin of appearance of non-decomposable maps on $M_3(C)$.

id: 1210.5477
title: Metaplectic Anyons, Majorana Zero Modes, and their Computational Power
authors: Matthew B. Hastings, Chetan Nayak, Zhenghan Wang
comments: References added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 165421 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5477
abstract: We introduce and study a class of anyon models that are a natural generalization of Ising anyons and Majorana fermion zero modes. These models combine an Ising anyon sector with a sector associated with $SO(m)_2$ Chern-Simons theory. We show how they can arise in a simple scenario for electron fractionalization and give a complete account of their quasiparticles types, fusion rules, and braiding. We show that the image of the braid group is finite for a collection of $2n$ fundamental quasiparticles and is a proper subgroup of the metaplectic representation of $Sp(2n-2,\mathbb{F}_m)\ltimes H(2n-2,\mathbb{F}_m)$, where $Sp(2n-2,\mathbb{F}_m)$ is the symplectic group over the finite field $\mathbb{F}_m$ and $H(2n-2,\mathbb{F}_m)$ is the extra special group (also called the $(2n-1)$-dimensional Heisenberg group) over $\mathbb{F}_m$. Moreover, the braiding of fundamental quasiparticles can be efficiently simulated classically. However, computing the result of braiding a certain type of composite quasiparticle is $# P$-hard, although it is not universal for quantum computation because it has a finite braid group image. This a rare example of a topological phase that is not universal for quantum computation through braiding but nevertheless has $# P$-hard link invariants. We argue that our models are closely related to recent analyses finding non-Abelian anyonic properties for defects in quantum Hall systems, generalizing Majorana zero modes in quasi-1D systems.

id: 1210.5518
title: Topological phases in ultracold polar-molecule quantum magnets
authors: Salvatore R. Manmana, E. M. Stoudenmire, Kaden R. A. Hazzard, Ana Maria Rey, Alexey V. Gorshkov
comments: Main text: 4 pages plus references, 3 figures. Supplementary info.: 4+epsilon pages. v2: significantly improved presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 081106(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5518
abstract: We show how to use polar molecules in an optical lattice to engineer quantum spin models with arbitrary spin S >= 1/2 and with interactions featuring a direction-dependent spin anisotropy. This is achieved by encoding the effective spin degrees of freedom in microwave-dressed rotational states of the molecules and by coupling the spins through dipolar interactions. We demonstrate how one of the experimentally most accessible anisotropies stabilizes symmetry protected topological phases in spin ladders. Using the numerically exact density matrix renormalization group method, we find that these interacting phases -- previously studied only in the nearest-neighbor case -- survive in the presence of long-range dipolar interactions. We also show how to use our approach to realize the bilinear-biquadratic spin-1 and the Kitaev honeycomb models. Experimental detection schemes and imperfections are discussed.

id: 1210.5527
title: Fibonacci topological order from quantum nets
authors: Paul Fendley, Sergei V. Isakov, Matthias Troyer
comments: 5 pages. v2: minor rewriting
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 260408 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5527
abstract: We analyze a model of quantum nets and show it has non-abelian topological order of doubled Fibonacci type. The ground state has the same topological behavior as that of the corresponding string-net model, but our Hamiltonian can be defined on any lattice, has less complicated interactions, and its excitations are dynamical, not fixed. This Hamiltonian includes terms acting on the spins around a face, around a vertex, and special "Jones-Wenzl" terms that serve to couple long loops together. We provide strong evidence for a gap by exact diagonalization, completing the list of ingredients necessary for topological order.

id: 1210.5601
title: Topological order in PEPS: Transfer operator and boundary Hamiltonians
authors: Norbert Schuch, Didier Poilblanc, J. Ignacio Cirac, David Perez-Garcia
comments: 4+2 pages, 4+1 figures. v2: Major improvements and additions, with the focus shifted towards the transfer operator. Paper largely rewritten and significantly extended, title changed. v3: Minor changes, accepted version, Journal-Ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 090501 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5601
abstract: We study the structure of topological phases and their boundaries in the Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS) formalism. We show how topological order in a system can be identified from the structure of the PEPS transfer operator, and subsequently use these findings to analyze the structure of the boundary Hamiltonian, acting on the bond variables, which reflects the entanglement properties of the system. We find that in a topological phase, the boundary Hamiltonian consists of two parts: A universal non-local part which encodes the nature of the topological phase, and a non-universal part which is local and inherits the symmetries of the topological model, which helps to infer the structure of the boundary Hamiltonian and thus possibly of the physical edge modes.

id: 1210.5697
title: He-McKellar-Wilkens topological phase in atom interferometry
authors: Steven Lepoutre, G¨¦rard Trenec, Matthias B¨¹chner, Jacques Vigu¨¦, Alexandre Gauguet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5697
abstract: We report the first experimental test of the topological phase predicted by He and McKellar and by Wilkens in 1993: this phase, which appears when an electric dipole propagates in a magnetic field, is connected to the Aharonov-Casher effect by electric-magnetic duality. The He-McKellar-Wilkens phase is quite small, at most 27 mrad in our experiment, and this experiment requires the high phase sensitivity of our atom interferometer with spatially separated arms as well as symmetry reversals such as the direction of the electric and magnetic fields. The measured value of the He-McKellar-Wilkens phase differs by 31% from its theoretical value, a difference possibly due to some as yet uncontrolled systematic errors.

id: 1210.5747
title: Self-adjoint Operators as Functions II: Quantum Probability
authors: Andreas Doering, Barry Dewitt
comments: 35 pages, 2 tables, no figures; v2: minimal changes, mainly updated references to Part I (arXiv:1208.4724) in section 2
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5747
abstract: In "Self-adjoint Operators as Functions I: Lattices, Galois Connections, and the Spectral Order" [arXiv:1208.4724], it was shown that self-adjoint operators affiliated with a von Neumann algebra N can equivalently be described as certain real-valued functions on the projection lattice P(N) of the algebra, which we call q-observable functions. Here, we show that q-observable functions can be interpreted as generalised quantile functions for quantum observables interpreted as random variables. More generally, when L is a complete meet-semilattice, we show that L-valued cumulative distribution functions and the corresponding L-quantile functions form a Galois connection. An ordinary CDF can be written as an L-CDF composed with a state. For classical probability, one picks L=B(\Omega), the complete Boolean algebra of measurable subsets modulo null sets of a measurable space \Omega. For quantum probability, one uses L=P(N), the projection lattice of a nonabelian von Neumann algebra N. Moreover, using some constructions from the topos approach to quantum theory, we show that there is a joint sample space for all quantum observables, despite no-go results such as the Kochen-Specker theorem. Specifically, the spectral presheaf \Sigma\ of a von Neumann algebra N, which is not a mere set, but a presheaf (i.e., a 'varying set'), plays the role of the sample space. The relevant meet-semilattice L in this case is the complete bi-Heyting algebra of clopen subobjects of \Sigma. We show that using the spectral presheaf \Sigma\ and associated structures, quantum probability can be formulated in a way that is structurally very similar to classical probability.

id: 1210.5797
title: Quasi-universal transient behavior of a nonequilibrium Mott insulator driven by an electric field
authors: K. Mikelsons, J. K. Freericks, H. R. Krishnamurthy
comments: (5 pages, 5 figures, ReVTeX)
journal: Physical Review Letters 109, 260402 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5797
abstract: We use a self-consistent strong-coupling expansion for the self-energy (perturbation theory in the hopping) to describe the nonequilibrium dynamics of strongly correlated lattice fermions. We study the three-dimensional homogeneous Fermi-Hubbard model driven by an external electric field showing that the damping of the ensuing Bloch oscillations depends on the direction of the field, and that for a broad range of field strengths, a long-lived transient prethermalized state emerges. This long-lived transient regime implies that thermal equilibrium may be out of reach of the time scales accessible in present cold atom experiments, but shows that an interesting new quasi-universal transient state exists in nonequilibrium governed by a thermalized kinetic energy but not a thermalized potential energy. In addition, when the field strength is equal in magnitude to the interaction between atoms, the system undergoes a rapid thermalization, characterized by a different quasi-universal behavior of the current and spectral function for different values of the hopping.

id: 1210.5798
title: Operator equality on entropy production in quantum Markovian master equations
authors: Fei Liu
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5798
abstract: An operator equality on the entropy production for general quantum Markovian master equations is derived without resorting quantum stochastic trajectory and priori quantum definition of entropy production. We find that, the equality can be still interpreted as a consequence of time-reversal asymmetry of the nonequilibrium processes of the systems. In contrast with the classical case, however, the first order expansion of the equality does not directly related to the mean entropy production, which arises from noncommute property of operators in quantum physics.

id: 1210.5821
title: Equilibration of Isolated Macroscopic Quantum Systems under Experimentally Realistic Conditions
authors: Peter Reimann
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. 86, 058512 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5821
abstract: In how far does an non-equilibrium initial ensemble evolve towards a stationary long time behavior for an isolated macroscopic quantum system? We demonstrate that deviations from a steady state indeed become unmeasurably small or exceedingly rare after initial transients have died out under the following conditions: The Hamilonian does not exhibit exceedingly large degeneracies of energy eigenvalues and energy gaps. A large number of energy levels is significantly populated by the initial ensemble. The system is observed by a measurement device with a reasonably bound working range compared to the resolution limit. The entire experiment, ending with the quantum mechanical measurement process, can only be repeated a "reasonable" number of times. It is argued that all these prerequisites for equilibration are fulfilled under many, if not all, experimentally realistic conditions.

id: 1210.5944
title: Measuring absolute spectral radiance using an Erbium Doped Fibre Amplifier
authors: Bruno Sanguinetti, Thiago Guerreiro, Fernando Monteiro, Nicolas Gisin, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5944
abstract: We describe a method to measure the spectral radiance of a source in an absolute way without the need of a reference. Here we give the necessary detail to allow for the device to be reproduced from standard fiber-optic components. The device is suited for fiber-optic applications at telecom wavelengths and calibration of powermeters and spectrometers at light levels from 1nW to 1uW.

id: 1210.5995
title: A method for extracting the resonance parameters from experimental cross section
authors: S. A. Rakityansky, N. Elander
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures, submitted to Journal of Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5995
abstract: The matrix elements of the multi-channel Jost matrices are written in such a way that their dependencies on all possible odd powers of channel momenta are factorized explicitly. As a result the branching of the Riemann energy surface at all the channel thresholds is represented in them via exact analytic expressions. The remaining single-valued functions of the energy are expanded in the Taylor series near an arbitrary point on the real axis. Using the thus obtained Jost matrices, the $S$-matrix is constructed and then the scattering cross section is calculated, which therefore depends on the Taylor expansion coefficients. These coefficients are considered as the adjustable parameters that are optimized to fit a given set of experimental data. After finding the coefficients, the resonances are located as zeros of the Jost matrix determinant at complex energies. Within this approach the $S$-matrix has proper analytic structure. This enables us not only to locate multi-channel resonances but also to reproduce their partial widths as well as the scattering cross section in the channels for which the data are not available.

id: 1210.6098
title: Detector-induced backaction on the counting statistics of a double quantum dot
authors: Zeng-Zhao Li, Chi-Hang Lam, Ting Yu, J. Q. You
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures; comments are welcome
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 3026 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6098
abstract: Full counting statistics of electron transport is of fundamental importance for a deeper understanding of the underlying physical processes in quantum transport in nanoscale devices. The backaction effect from a detector on the nanoscale devices is also essential due to its inevitable presence in experiments. Here we investigate the backaction of a charge detector in the form of a quantum point contact (QPC) on the counting statistics of a biased double quantum dot (DQD). We show that this inevitable QPC-induced backaction can have profound effects on the counting statistics under certain conditions, e.g., changing the shot noise from being sub-Poissonian to super-Poissonian, and changing the skewness from being positive to negative. Also, we show that both Fano factor and skewness can be either enhanced or suppressed by increasing the energy difference between two single-dot levels of the DQD under the detector-induced backaction.

id: 1210.6105
title: Geometric-phase interference in a Mn_{12} single-molecule magnet with four-fold rotational symmetry
authors: S. T. Adams, E. H. da Silva Neto, S. Datta, J. F. Ware, C. Lampropoulos, G. Christou, Y. Myaesoedov, E. Zeldov, Jonathan R. Friedman
comments: version accepted by PRL; added inset to Fig. 1, added three references and a footnote; other minor changes; 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 087205 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6105
abstract: We study the magnetic relaxation rate Gamma of the single-molecule magnet Mn_{12}-tBuAc as a function of magnetic field component H_T transverse to the molecule's easy axis. When the spin is near a magnetic quantum tunneling resonance, we find that Gamma increases abruptly at certain values of H_T. These increases are observed just beyond values of H_T at which a geometric-phase interference effect suppresses tunneling between two excited energy levels. The effect is washed out by rotating H_T away from the spin's hard axis, thereby suppressing the interference effect. Detailed numerical calculations of Gamma using the known spin Hamiltonian accurately reproduce the observed behavior. These results are the first experimental evidence for geometric-phase interference in a single-molecule magnet with true four-fold symmetry.

id: 1210.6167
title: Symmetries of finite Heisenberg groups for multipartite systems
authors: M. Korbelar, J. Tolar
comments: 18 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 285305 (18pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6167
abstract: A composite quantum system comprising a finite number k of subsystems which are described with position and momentum variables in Z_{n_{i}}, i=1,...,k, is considered. Its Hilbert space is given by a k-fold tensor product of Hilbert spaces of dimensions n_{1},...,n_{k}. Symmetry group of the respective finite Heisenberg group is given by the quotient group of certain normalizer. This paper extends our previous investigation of bipartite quantum systems to arbitrary multipartite systems of the above type. It provides detailed description of the normalizers and the corresponding symmetry groups. The new class of symmetry groups represents a very specific generalization of symplectic groups over modular rings. As an application, a new proof of existence of the maximal set of mutually unbiased bases in Hilbert spaces of prime power dimensions is provided.

id: 1210.6186
title: Faddeev Random Phase Approximation applied to molecules
authors: Matthias Degroote
comments: Ph.D. thesis
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6186
abstract: This Ph.D. thesis derives the equations of the Faddeev Random Phase Approximation (FRPA) and applies the method to a set of small atoms and molecules. The occurence of RPA instabilities in the dissociation limit is addressed in molecules and by the study of the Hubbard molecule as a test system with reduced dimensionality.

id: 1210.6212
title: Bose-Einstein Condensate in a Linear Trap With a Dimple Potential
authors: Haydar Uncu, Devrim Tarhan
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures, accepted by Communications in Theoretical Physics. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:cond-mat/0701668
journal: Communications in Theoretical Physics 59 (2013) 629
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6212
abstract: We study Bose-Einstein condensation in a linear trap with a dimple potential where we model dimple potentials by Dirac \del function. Attractive and repulsive dimple potentials are taken into account. This model allows simple, explicit numerical and analytical investigations of noninteracting gases. Thus, the \Sch is used instead of the Gross-Pitaevski equation. We calculate the atomic density, the chemical potential, the critical temperature and the condensate fraction. The role of the relative depth of the dimple potential with respect to the linear trap in large condensate formation at enhanced temperatures is clearly revealed. Moreover, we also present a semi-classical method for calculating various quantities such as entropy analytically. Moreover, we compare the results of this paper with the results of a previous paper in which the harmonic trap with a dimple potential in 1D was investigated.

id: 1210.6220
title: Effect of Dimple Potential on Ultraslow Light in a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Devrim Tarhan, Haydar Uncu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: ACTA PHYSICA POLONICA A 121, 141 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6220
abstract: We investigate the propagation of ultraslow optical pulse in atomic Bose-Einstein condensate in a harmonic trap decorated with a dimple potential. The role of dimple potential on the group velocity and time delay is studied. Since we consider the interatomic scattering interactions nonlinear Schrodinger equation or Gross-Pitaevskii equation is used in order to get the density profile of the atomic system. We find large group delays of order 1 msec in an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate in a harmonic trap with a deep dimple potential.

id: 1210.6310
title: Tunneling spectroscopy using a probe qubit
authors: A. J. Berkley, A. J. Przybysz, T. Lanting, R. Harris, N. Dickson, F. Altomare, M. H. Amin, P. Bunyk, C. Enderud, E. Hoskinson, M. W. Johnson, E. Ladizinsky, R. Neufeld, C. Rich, A. Yu. Smirnov, E. Tolkacheva, S. Uchaikin, A. B. Wilson
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 020502 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6310
abstract: We describe a quantum tunneling spectroscopy technique that requires only low bandwidth control. The method involves coupling a probe qubit to the system under study to create a localized probe state. The energy of the probe state is then scanned with respect to the unperturbed energy levels of the probed system. Incoherent tunneling transitions that flip the state of the probe qubit occur when the energy bias of the probe is close to an eigenenergy of the probed system. Monitoring these transitions allows the reconstruction of the probed system eigenspectrum. We demonstrate this method on an rf SQUID flux qubit.

id: 1210.6376
title: H1 photonic crystal cavitites for hybrid quantum information protocols
authors: Jenna Hagemeier, Cristian Bonato, Tuan-Anh Truong, Hyochul Kim, Gareth J. Beirne, Morten Bakker, Martin P. van Exter, Yunqiu Luo, Pierre Petroff, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20 Issue 22, pp.24714-24726 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6376
abstract: Hybrid quantum information protocols are based on local qubits, such as trapped atoms, NV centers, and quantum dots, coupled to photons. The coupling is achieved through optical cavities. Here we demonstrate far-field optimized H1 photonic crystal membrane cavities combined with an additional back reflection mirror below the membrane that meet the optical requirements for implementing hybrid quantum information protocols. Using numerical optimization we find that 80% of the light can be radiated within an objective numerical aperture of 0.8, and the coupling to a single-mode fiber can be as high as 92%. We experimentally prove the unique external mode matching properties by resonant reflection spectroscopy with a cavity mode visibility above 50%.

id: 1210.6418
title: A New Approach to The Quantum Mechanics
authors: Yulei Feng
comments: a revision and expansion, 52 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6418
abstract: In this paper, we try to give a new approach to the quantum mechanics(QM) on the framework of quantum field theory(QFT). Firstly, we make a detail study on the (non-relativistic) Schr\"odinger field theory, obtaining the Schr\"odinger equation as a field equation, after field quantization, the Heisenberg equations for the momentum and position operators of the particles excited from the (Schr\"odinger) field and the Feynman path integral formula of QM are also obtained. We then give the probability concepts of quantum mechanics in terms of a statistical ensemble, realizing the ensemble(or statistical) interpretation. With these, we make a series of conceptual modifications to the standard quantum mechanics, especially propose a new assumption about the quantum measurement theory which can solve the EPR paradox from the view of the QFT. Besides, a field theoretical description to the double-slit interference experiment is developed, obtaining the required particle number distribution. In the end, we extend all the above concepts to the relativistic case so that the ensemble interpretation is still proper. Two extra topics are added, in the first one, an operable experiment is proposed to distinguish the Copenhagen interpretation from the ensemble one via very different experimental results. While the second topic concerns with the extensions of the concept of coherent state to both the Bosonic and Fermionic field cases, to obtain the corresponding classical fields. And in the concluding section, we make some general comparisons between the standard QM and the one derived from the QFT, from which we claim that the QFT is the fundamental theory.

id: 1210.6504
title: Collisions of anisotropic two-dimensional bright solitons in dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: R¨¹diger Eichler, Damir Zajec, Patrick K?berle, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053611 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6504
abstract: We investigate the coherent collision of anisotropic quasi-two-dimensional bright solitons in dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates. Our analysis is based on the extended Gross-Pitaevskii equation, and we use the split-operator method for the grid calculations and the time-dependent variational principle with an ansatz of coupled Gaussian functions to calculate the time evolution of the ground state. We compare the results of both approaches for collisions where initially the solitons are in the repelling side-by-side configuration and move towards each other with a specific momentum. We change the relative phases of the condensates, and introduce a total angular momentum by shifting the solitons in opposite direction along the polarization axis. Our calculations show that collisions result in breathing-mode-like excitations of the solitons.

id: 1210.6625
title: Private Quantum Channels, Conditional Expectations, and Trace Vectors
authors: Amber Church, David W. Kribs, Rajesh Pereira, Sarah Plosker
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation (QIC), 11, no. 9 & 10, pp. 774 - 783, 2011
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6625
abstract: Private quantum channels are the quantum analogue of the classical one-time pad. Conditional expectations and trace vectors are notions that have been part of operator algebra theory for several decades. We show that the theory of conditional expectations and trace vectors is intimately related to that of private quantum channels. Specifically we give a new geometric characterization of single qubit private quantum channels that relies on trace vectors. We further show that trace vectors completely describe the private states for quantum channels that are themselves conditional expectations. We also discuss several examples.

id: 1210.6630
title: Trumping and Power Majorization
authors: David W. Kribs, Rajesh Pereira, Sarah Plosker
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6630
abstract: Majorization is a basic concept in matrix theory that has found applications in numerous settings over the past century. Power majorization is a more specialized notion that has been studied in the theory of inequalities. On the other hand, the trumping relation has recently been considered in quantum information, specifically in entanglement theory. We explore the connections between trumping and power majorization. We prove an analogue of Rado's theorem for power majorization and consider a number of examples.

id: 1210.6646
title: Efficient Inner-product Algorithm for Stabilizer States
authors: Hector J. Garcia, Igor L. Markov, Andrew W. Cross
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Computational Geometry (cs.CG); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6646
abstract: Large-scale quantum computation is likely to require massive quantum error correction (QEC). QEC codes and circuits are described via the stabilizer formalism, which represents stabilizer states by keeping track of the operators that preserve them. Such states are obtained by stabilizer circuits (consisting of CNOT, Hadamard and Phase only) and can be represented compactly on conventional computers using Omega(n^2) bits, where n is the number of qubits. Although techniques for the efficient simulation of stabilizer circuits have been studied extensively, techniques for efficient manipulation of stabilizer states are not currently available. To this end, we design new algorithms for: (i) obtaining canonical generators for stabilizer states, (ii) obtaining canonical stabilizer circuits, and (iii) computing the inner product between stabilizer states. Our inner-product algorithm takes O(n^3) time in general, but observes quadratic behavior for many practical instances relevant to QECC (e.g., GHZ states). We prove that each n-qubit stabilizer state has exactly 4(2^n - 1) nearest-neighbor stabilizer states, and verify this claim experimentally using our algorithms. We design techniques for representing arbitrary quantum states using stabilizer frames and generalize our algorithms to compute the inner product between two such frames.

id: 1210.6672
title: From the adiabatic theorem of quantum mechanics to topological states of matter
authors: Jan Carl Budich, Bj?rn Trauzettel
comments: short review article
journal: physica status solidi (RRL) 7, 109 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6672
abstract: Owing to the enormous interest the rapidly growing field of topological states of matter (TSM) has attracted in recent years, the main focus of this review is on the theoretical foundations of TSM. Starting from the adiabatic theorem of quantum mechanics which we present from a geometrical perspective, the concept of TSM is introduced to distinguish gapped many body ground states that have representatives within the class of non-interacting systems and mean field superconductors, respectively, regarding their global geometrical features. These classifying features are topological invariants defined in terms of the adiabatic curvature of these bulk insulating systems. We review the general classification of TSM in all symmetry classes in the framework of K-Theory. Furthermore, we outline how interactions and disorder can be included into the theoretical framework of TSM by reformulating the relevant topological invariants in terms of the single particle Green's function and by introducing twisted boundary conditions, respectively. We finally integrate the field of TSM into a broader context by distinguishing TSM from the concept of topological order which has been introduced to study fractional quantum Hall systems.

id: 1210.6701
title: Two trapped particles interacting by a finite-ranged two-body potential in two spatial dimensions
authors: Rostislav A. Doganov, Shachar Klaiman, Ofir E. Alon, Alexej I. Streltsov, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 033631 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6701
abstract: We examine the problem of two particles confined in an isotropic harmonic trap, which interact via a finite-ranged Gaussian-shaped potential in two spatial dimensions. We derive an approximative transcendental equation for the energy and study the resulting spectrum as a function of the interparticle interaction strength. Both the attractive and repulsive systems are analyzed. We study the impact of the potential's range on the ground-state energy. Complementary, we also explicitly verify by a variational treatment that in the zero-range limit the positive delta potential in two dimensions only reproduces the non-interacting results, if the Hilbert space in not truncated. Finally, we establish and discuss the connection between our finite-range treatment and regularized zero-range results from the literature.

id: 1210.6737
title: On the properties of the Uehling potential
authors: Alexei M. Frolov
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1111.2303
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6737
abstract: A number of properties of the Uehling potential are investigated. In particular, we determine the Fourier spatial resolution of the Uehling potential. The lowest-order correction on vacuum polarisation is re-written in terms of the electron density distribution function. We also discuss the consecutive approximations of the perturbation theory developed for the short-range Uehling potential in the Coulomb few-body systems (atoms). The cusp problem is formulated for few-body systems in which particles interact with each other by the mixed (Coulomb + Uehling) potential.

id: 1210.6759
title: Holographic Geometries of one-dimensional gapped quantum systems from Tensor Network States
authors: Javier Molina-Vilaplana
comments: 25 pages, 6 Postscript figures. The v2 is a major revisioned version with a new title and results to be published in JHEP
journal: JHEP05(2013)024
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6759
abstract: We investigate a recent conjecture connecting the AdS/CFT correspondence and entanglement renormalization tensor network states (MERA). The proposal interprets the tensor connectivity of the MERA states associated to quantum many body systems at criticality, in terms of a dual holographic geometry which accounts for the qualitative aspects of the entanglement and the correlations in these systems. In this work, some generic features of the entanglement entropy and the two point functions in the ground state of one dimensional gapped systems are considered through a tensor network state. The tensor network is builded up as an hybrid composed by a finite number of MERA layers and a matrix product state (MPS) acting as a cap layer. Using the holographic formula for the entanglement entropy, here it is shown that an asymptotically AdS metric can be associated to the hybrid MERA-MPS state. The metric is defined by a function that manages the growth of the minimal surfaces near the capped region of the geometry. Namely, it is shown how the behaviour of the entanglement entropy and the two point correlators in the tensor network, remains consistent with a geometric computation which only depends on this function. From these observations, an explicit connection between the entanglement structure of the tensor network and the function which defines the geometry is provided.

id: 1210.6763
title: Statistical Mechanics and Quantum Fields on Fractals
authors: Eric Akkermans
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. Proceedings of the conference : Applications of Fractals and Dynamical Systems in Science and Economics Edited by: David Carfi, Michel L. Lapidus, Erin P. J. Pearse, and Machiel van Frankenhuijsen. Contemporary Mathematics (CONM) book series
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6763
abstract: Fractals define a new and interesting realm for a discussion of basic phenomena in quantum field theory and statistical mechanics. This interest results from specific properties of fractals, e.g., their dilatation symmetry and the corresponding absence of Fourier mode decomposition. Moreover, the existence of a set of distinct dimensions characterizing the physical properties (spatial or spectral) of fractals make them a useful testing ground for dimensionality dependent physical problems. This paper addresses specific problems including the behavior of the heat kernel and spectral zeta functions on fractals and their importance in the expression of spectral properties in quantum physics. Finally, we apply these results to specific problems such as thermodynamics of quantum radiation by a fractal blackbody.

id: 1210.6767
title: Bound states in the one-dimensional two-particle Hubbard model with an impurity
authors: J. M. Zhang, Daniel Braak, Marcus Kollar
comments: 18 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023613 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6767
abstract: We investigate bound states in the one-dimensional two-particle Bose-Hubbard model with an attractive ($V> 0$) impurity potential. This is a one-dimensional, discrete analogy of the hydrogen negative ion H$^-$ problem. There are several different types of bound states in this system, each of which appears in a specific region. For given $V$, there exists a (positive) critical value $U_{c1}$ of $U$, below which the ground state is a bound state. Interestingly, close to the critical value ($U\lesssim U_{c1}$), the ground state can be described by the Chandrasekhar-type variational wave function, which was initially proposed for H$^-$. For $U>U_{c1}$, the ground state is no longer a bound state. However, there exists a second (larger) critical value $U_{c2}$ of $U$, above which a molecule-type bound state is established and stabilized by the repulsion. We have also tried to solve for the eigenstates of the model using the Bethe ansatz. The model possesses a global $\Zz_2$-symmetry (parity) which allows classification of all eigenstates into even and odd ones. It is found that all states with odd-parity have the Bethe form, but none of the states in the even-parity sector. This allows us to identify analytically two odd-parity bound states, which appear in the parameter regions $-2V<U<-V$ and $-V<U<0$, respectively. Remarkably, the latter one can be \textit{embedded} in the continuum spectrum with appropriate parameters. Moreover, in part of these regions, there exists an even-parity bound state accompanying the corresponding odd-parity bound state with almost the same energy.

id: 1210.6803
title: Electron wavefunction probing in room-temperature semiconductors: direct observation of Rabi oscillations and self-induced transparency
authors: Amir Capua, Ouri Karni, Gadi Eisenstein, Johann Peter Reithmaier
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 045305 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6803
abstract: Quantum coherent light-matter interactions have been at the forefront of scientific interest since the fundamental predictions of Einstein and the later work of Rabi. Direct observation of quantum coherent interactions entails probing the electronic wavefunction which requires that the electronic state of the matter does not de-phase during the measurement, a condition that can be satisfied by lengthening the coherence time or by shortening the observation time. The short de-phasing time in semiconductors has dictated that all coherent effects reported to date have been recorded directly only at cryogenic temperatures. Here we report on the first direct electronic wavefunction probing in a room-temperature semiconductor. Employing an ultrafast characterization scheme we have demonstrated Rabi oscillations and self-induced transparency in an electrically driven, room-temperature semiconductor laser amplifier, revealing the most intimate details of the light-matter interactions seen to date. The ability to employ quantum effects in solid-state media, which operate at elevated temperatures, will finally bring true quantum mechanical concepts into the realm of practical devices.

id: 1210.6813
title: The Casimir energy between nanostructured gratings of arbitrary periodic profile
authors: Johann Lussange, Romain Gu¨¦rout, Astrid Lambrecht
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062502 (2012)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6813
abstract: We study the lateral dependence of the Casimir energy for different corrugated gratings of arbitrary periodic profile. To this end we model the profiles as stacks of horizontal rectangular slices following the profiles' shape and evaluate numerically the Casimir energy between them for different relative lateral displacements of the two corrugated plates. We compare our results with predictions obtained within the proximity force approximation (PFA). At comparable separation of the corrugated plates and geometric parameters, we find a strong dependence of the Casimir energy on the shape of the corrugation profiles.

id: 1210.6829
title: Coherent control of quantum transport: modulation-enhanced phase detection and band spectroscopy
authors: Marco G. Tarallo, Nicola Poli, F.Y. Wang, Guglielmo M. Tino
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, Submitted to EPJ Special Topics for the special issue on "Novel Quantum Phases and Mesoscopic Physics in Quantum Gases"
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 217, 207-214 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6829
abstract: Amplitude modulation of a tilted optical lattice can be used to steer the quantum transport of matter wave packets in a very flexible way. This allows the experimental study of the phase sensitivity in a multimode interferometer based on delocalization-enhanced Bloch oscillations and to probe the band structure modified by a constant force.

id: 1210.6867
title: Flux-dependent occupations and occupation difference in geometrically symmetric and energy degenerate double-dot Aharonov-Bohm interferometers
authors: Salil Bedkihal, Malay Bandyopadhyay, Dvira Segal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 045418 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6867
abstract: We study the steady-state characteristics and the transient behavior of the nonequilibrium double-dot Aharonov-Bohm interferometer using analytical tools and numerical simulations. Our simple setup includes noninteracting degenerate quantum dots that are coupled to two biased metallic leads at the same strength. A magnetic flux $\Phi$ is piercing the setup perpendicularly. As we tune the degenerate dots energies away from the symmetric point we observe four nontrivial magnetic flux control effects: (i) flux dependency of the dots occupation, (ii) magnetic flux induced occupation difference between the dots, at degeneracy, (iii) the effect of "phase-localization" of the dots coherence holds only at the symmetric point, while in general both real and imaginary parts of the coherence are nonzero, and (iv) coherent evolution survives even when the dephasing strength, introduced into our model using B\"uttiker probe, is large and comparable to the dots energies and the bias voltage. Moreover, not only finite dephasing strength does not destroy the coherence features, it can provide new type of coherent oscillations. These four phenomena take place when the dots energies are gated, to be positioned away from the symmetric point, demonstrating that the combination of bias voltage, magnetic flux and gating field, can provide delicate controllability over the occupation of each of the quantum dots, and their coherence.

id: 1210.6895
title: Spontaneous Emission from a Fractal Vacuum
authors: Eric Akkermans, Evgeni Gurevich
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6895
abstract: Spontaneous emission of a quantum emitter coupled to a QED vacuum with a deterministic fractal structure of its spectrum is considered. We show that the decay probability does not follow a Wigner-Weisskopf exponential decrease but rather an overall power law behavior with a rich oscillatory structure, both depending on the local fractal properties of the vacuum spectrum. These results are obtained by giving first a general perturbative derivation for short times. Then we propose a simplified model which retains the main features of a fractal spectrum to establish analytic expressions valid for all time scales. Finally, we discuss the case of a Fibonacci cavity and its experimental relevance to observe these results.

id: 1210.6922
title: Quantum Ising dynamics and Majorana-like edge modes in the Rabi lattice model
authors: Brijesh Kumar, Somenath Jalal
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 011802(R) (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6922
abstract: The atomic dipoles in the Rabi lattice model exhibit quantum Ising dynamics in the limit of strong atom-photon interaction. It governs the para- to ferro-electric phase transition in the ground state. On an open chain, it implies the existence of two Majorana-like, albeit topologically unprotected, edge modes in the ordered phase. The relation \rho^x_{1L}=p^8 between the end-to-end dipole correlation, \rho^x_{1L}, and the spontaneous polarization, p, is proposed as an observable signature of these edge modes. The DMRG calculations on the one-dimensional Rabi lattice support the strong coupling quantum Ising behavior, and correctly yield the proposed end-to-end dipole correlation. The conditions which protect the edge modes against the adverse perturbations are also identified.

id: 1210.6926
title: On the entanglement-assisted classical capacity of infinite-dimensional quantum channels
authors: A.S. Holevo, M.E. Shirokov
comments: 26 pages, minor corrections have been made
journal: Problems of Information Transmission, 2013, V.49, N.1, pp.15-31
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6926
abstract: The coding theorem for the entanglement-assisted communication via infinite-dimensional quantum channel with linear constraint is extended to a natural degree of generality. Relations between the entanglement-assisted classical capacity and the $\chi$-capacity of constrained channels are obtained and conditions for their coincidence are given. Sufficient conditions for continuity of the entanglement-assisted classical capacity as a function of a channel are obtained. Some applications of the obtained results to analysis of Gaussian channels are considered. A general (continuous) version of the fundamental relation between the coherent information and the measure of privacy of classical information transmission by infinite-dimensional quantum channel is proved.

id: 1210.6938
title: Variational Formulation of Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory
authors: J¨¦r?me Daligault
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6938
abstract: We present a variational formulation of Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory similar to the constrained-search variational formulation of ground-state density-function theory. The formulation is applied to justify the time-dependent Kohn-Sham method. Other promising applications to advance TDDFT are suggested.

id: 1210.6957
title: Fluctuation-Electromagnetic Interaction between Rotating Nanoparticles. 2.Relativistic Theory
authors: A.A. Kyasov, G. V. Dedkov
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.6957
abstract: We study the fluctuation electromagnetic interaction in a system of two rotating electrically neutral nonmagnetic particles with allowance for relativistic retardation effect. The particles are assumed to have different temperatures being embedded into a heated vacuum background (photon gas). Closed expressions for the free energy, frictional torque and the rate of heat transfer are derived and compared to the known static results and those in the electrostatic limit without retardation.

id: 1210.7107
title: A Scalar Wigner Theory for Polarized Light in Nonlinear Kerr Media
authors: T. Hansson, E. Wallin, G. Brodin, M. Marklund
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7107
abstract: A scalar Wigner distribution function for describing polarized light is proposed in analogy with the treatment of spin variables in quantum kinetic theory. The formalism is applied to the propagation of circularly polarized light in nonlinear Kerr media and an extended phase space evolution equation is derived along with invariant quantities. We further consider modulation instability as well as the extension to partially coherent fields.

id: 1210.7117
title: Towards the Kantorovich dual solution for strictly correlated electrons in atoms and molecules
authors: Christian B. Mendl, Lin Lin
comments: 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 125106 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7117
abstract: The many-body Coulomb repulsive energy of strictly correlated electrons provides direct information of the exact Hohenberg-Kohn exchange-correlation functional in the strong interaction limit. Until now the treatment of strictly correlated electrons is based on the calculation of co-motion functions with the help of semi-analytic formulations. This procedure is system specific and has been limited to spherically symmetric atoms and strictly 1D systems. We develop a nested optimization method which solves the Kantorovich dual problem directly, and thus facilitates a general treatment of strictly correlated electrons for systems including atoms and small molecules.

id: 1210.7162
title: Nontrivial ground-state degeneracies and generalized fractional excitations in the 1D lattice
authors: Emma Wikberg
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7162
abstract: We study a 1D lattice Hamiltonian, relevant for a wide range of interesting physical systems like, e.g., the quantum-Hall system, cold atoms or molecules in optical lattices, and TCNQ salts. Through a tuning of the interaction parameters and a departure from a strictly convex interaction, nontrivial ground-state degeneracies and fractionally charged excitations emerge. The excitations, being a generalization of the fractional charges known from the fractional quantum-Hall effect, appear as domain walls between inequivalent ground states and carry the charge +e/mq or -e/mq, where m is an integer and associated with the specified interaction, and v = p/q is the filling fraction in the lattice. The description points at an interesting resemblance to states connected to non-Abelian statistics, which is central for the concept of topological quantum computing.

id: 1210.7272
title: Blackbody radiation shift in the Sr optical atomic clock
authors: M. S. Safronova, S. G. Porsev, U. I. Safronova, M. G. Kozlov, Charles W. Clark
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7272
abstract: We evaluated the static and dynamic polarizabilities of the 5s^2 ^1S_0 and 5s5p ^3P_0^o states of Sr using the high-precision relativistic configuration interaction + all-order method. Our calculation explains the discrepancy between the recent experimental 5s^2 ^1S_0 - 5s5p ^3P_0^o dc Stark shift measurement \Delta \alpha = 247.374(7) a.u. [Middelmann et. al, arXiv:1208.2848 (2012)] and the earlier theoretical result of 261(4) a.u. [Porsev and Derevianko, Phys. Rev. A 74, 020502R (2006)]. Our present value of 247.5 a.u. is in excellent agreement with the experimental result. We also evaluated the dynamic correction to the BBR shift with 1 % uncertainty; -0.1492(16) Hz. The dynamic correction to the BBR shift is unusually large in the case of Sr (7 %) and it enters significantly into the uncertainty budget of the Sr optical lattice clock. We suggest future experiments that could further reduce the present uncertainties.

id: 1210.7328
title: Nonequilibrium quench dynamics in quantum quasicrystals
authors: Ferenc Igloi, Gergo Roosz, Yu-Cheng Lin
comments: 17 pages, 15 figures; revised version; to appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 023036 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7328
abstract: We study the nonequilibrium dynamics of a quasiperiodic quantum Ising chain after a sudden change in the strength of the transverse field at zero temperature. In particular we consider the dynamics of the entanglement entropy and the relaxation of the magnetization. The entanglement entropy increases with time as a power-law, and the magnetization is found to exhibit stretched-exponential relaxation. These behaviors are explained in terms of anomalously diffusing quasiparticles, which are studied in a wave packet approach. The nonequilibrium magnetization is shown to have a dynamical phase transition.

id: 1210.7330
title: Collective coupling of a macroscopic number of single-molecule magnets with a microwave cavity mode
authors: A. W. Eddins, C. C. Beedle, D. N. Hendrickson, Jonathan R. Friedman
comments: Main text: 12 pages, including 3 figures. Supplement: 5 pages, including 2 figures. 17 pages total
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 120501 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7330
abstract: We report the observation of strong coupling of a macroscopic ensemble of ~10^{16} Fe_8 molecular nanomagnets to the resonant mode of a microwave cavity. We use millimeter-wave spectroscopy to measure the splitting of the system's resonant frequency induced by the coupling between the spins and the cavity mode. The magnitude of this splitting is found to scale with Sqrt[N], where N is the number of collectively coupled spins. We control N by changing the system's temperature and, thereby, the populations of the relevant spin energy levels. Strong coupling is observed for two distinct transitions between spin energy states. Our results indicate that at low temperatures nearly all of the spins in the sample couple with the cavity's resonant mode even though there is substantial inhomogeneous broadening of the Fe8 spin resonances.

id: 1210.7406
title: Wannier-Stark states and Bloch oscillations in the honeycomb lattice
authors: Andrey R. Kolovsky, Evgeny N. Bulgakov
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A {\bf 87}, 033602 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7406
abstract: We study a quantum particle in a tilted honeycomb lattice in the tight-binding approximation. First we discuss the particle eigenstates, i.e., the stationary Wannier-Stark states. These states are proved to be extended states for the rational directions of the static field and localized states for the irrational directions. We find energy bands of the extended states and analyze the localized states. It is shown, in particular, that the localized `honeycomb' Wannier-Stark states are chaotic states with irregular dependence of the localization length on the static field magnitude. Second we discuss Bloch oscillations of the quantum particle. Irregular Bloch oscillations for irrational directions are observed.

id: 1210.7532
title: Quantum levitation of nanoparticles seen with ultracold neutrons
authors: V. V. Nesvizhevsky, A. Yu. Voronin, A. Lambrecht, S. Reynaud, E. V. Lychagin, A. Yu. Muzychka, A. V. Strelkov
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Crystallography Reports 58 (2013) 743
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7532
abstract: Analyzing new experiments with ultracold neutrons (UCNs) we show that physical adsorption of nanoparticles/nano-droplets, levitating in high-excited states in a deep and broad potential well formed by van der Waals/Casimir-Polder (vdW/CP) forces results in new effects on a cross-road of fundamental interactions, neutron, surface and nanoparticle physics. Accounting for the interaction of UCNs with nanoparticles explains a recently discovered intriguing small heating of UCNs in traps. It might be relevant to the striking conflict of the neutron lifetime experiments with smallest reported uncertainties by adding false effects there.

id: 1210.7592
title: Photonic crystal formation on optical nanofibers using femtosecond laser ablation technique
authors: K. P. Nayak, K. Hakuta
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7592
abstract: We demonstrate that thousands of periodic nano-craters are fabricated on a subwavelength-diameter tapered optical fiber, an optical nanofiber, by irradiating with just a single femtosecond laser pulse. A key aspect of the fabrication is that the nanofiber itself acts as a cylindrical lens and focuses the femtosecond laser beam on its shadow surface. We also demonstrate that such periodic structures on the nanofiber, act as a 1-D photonic crystal (PhC). Such PhC structures on the nanofiber will strongly enhance the field confinement in such a tapered fiber-based system and may open new avenues in nanophotonics and quantum information technology.

id: 1210.7609
title: Current resonances in graphene with time dependent potential barriers
authors: Sergey E. Savel'ev, Wolfgang Hausler, Peter Hanggi
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, Phys. Rev. Lett. (2012) (in press); Phys. Rev. Lett. (2012)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 226602 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7609
abstract: A method is derived to solve the massless Dirac-Weyl equation describing electron transport in a mono-layer of graphene with a scalar potential barrier U(x,t), homogeneous in the y-direction, of arbitrary x- and time dependence. Resonant enhancement of both electron backscattering and currents, across and along the barrier, is predicted when the modulation frequencies satisfy certain resonance conditions. These conditions resemble those for Shapiro-steps of driven Josephson junctions. Surprisingly, we find a non-zero y-component of the current for carriers of zero momentum along the y-axis.

id: 1210.7672
title: States in the Hilbert space formulation and the phase space formulation of quantum mechanics
authors: J. Tosiek, P. Brzykcy
comments: 18 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. 332 (2013), 1
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7672
abstract: W consider the problem of testing if a given matrix in the Hilbert space formulation of quantum mechanics or a function in the phase space formulation of quantum theory represent a quantum state. We propose several practical criteria to recognise states in these both versions of quantum physics. After minor modifications they can be applied to check positivity of any operators acting in a Hilbert space or positivity of any functions from an algebra with a Weyl type * -- product.

id: 1210.7728
title: Long-range interactions in the ozone molecule: spectroscopic and dynamical points of view
authors: Maxence Lepers, B¨¦atrice Bussery-Honvault, Olivier Dulieu
comments: Submitted to J. Chem. Phys. after revision
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 234305 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7728
abstract: Using the multipolar expansion of the electrostatic energy, we have characterized the asymptotic interactions between an oxygen atom O$(^3P)$ and an oxygen molecule O$_2(^3\Sigma_g^-)$, both in their electronic ground state. We have calculated the interaction energy induced by the permanent electric quadrupoles of O and O$_2$ and the van der Waals energy. On one hand we determined the 27 electronic potential energy surfaces including spin-orbit connected to the O$(^3P)$ + O$_2(^3\Sigma_g^-)$ dissociation limit of the O--O$_2$ complex. On the other hand we computed the potential energy curves characterizing the interaction between O$(^3P)$ and a O$_2(^3\Sigma_g^-)$ molecule in its lowest vibrational level and in a low rotational level. Such curves are found adiabatic to a good approximation, namely they are only weakly coupled to each other. These results represent a first step for modeling the spectroscopy of ozone bound levels close to the dissociation limit, as well as the low energy collisions between O and O$_2$ thus complementing the knowledge relevant for the ozone formation mechanism.

id: 1210.7766
title: Multiphoton electron detachment by a superposition of static and ac filds
authors: A. G. Kofman, G. P. Berman
comments: 20 pages, 2 figure
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7766
abstract: A theory of electron detachment from atoms or negative ions by a superposition of a static and a laser (or, more generally, ac) fields, parallel to each other, is developed in the case when the photon energy and the field amplitude are much less than the detachment energy and intra-ion field, respectively. Simple analytical results together with their validity conditions are obtained. Several qualitatively different regimes of detachment have been identified. Applications of the present theory to electron emission from metal and semiconductor surfaces and from photosynthetic bio-complexes are discussed.

id: 1210.7785
title: Emergence from irreversibility
authors: P. Fernandez de Cordoba, J. M. Isidro, Milton H. Perea
comments: Talk based on arXiv:1206.4941 [math-ph] by some of the present authors (P. F. de C. and J.M.I.), presented by J.M.I. at the Sixth International Workshop DICE 2012: Spacetime-Matter-Quantum Mechanics: from the Planck scale to emergent phenomena (Castiglioncello, Italy, September 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7785
abstract: The emergent nature of quantum mechanics is shown to follow from a precise correspondence with the classical theory of irreversible thermodynamics.

id: 1210.7801
title: Parasupersymmetry in Quantum Graphs
authors: Satoshi Ohya
comments: 17 pages, 9 eepic figures; typos corrected, a reference added, figures improved, minor changes in terminology
journal: Annals Phys.331:299-312,2013
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7801
abstract: We study hidden parasupersymmetry structures in purely bosonic quantum mechanics on compact equilateral graphs. We consider a single free spinless particle on the graphs and show that the Huang-Su parasupersymmetry algebra is hidden behind degenerate spectra.

id: 1210.7825
title: Pure spin decoherence in quantum dots
authors: Yuli Lyanda-Geller
comments: 5 pages, submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7825
abstract: We uncover two microscopic physical settings with significant pure spin decoherence. First, for quantum dots (QD) electrostatically confined in two-dimensional hole gas, decoherence comes from qubit spin-orbit (SO) coupling to phonons, whose decay due to free charge carriers in contacts is described by Ohmic weighted phonon spectral function. We derive significant SO interactions affecting holes with origin and symmetry distinct from that of conventionally considered Dresselhaus and Rashba terms. In the second setting of electron or hole QDs coupled to a linear chain of atoms, decoherence is due to spin-dependent coupling to phonons, whose decay due to scattering off the free ends of a chain is described by the weighted phonon spectral function inverse proportional to frequency. The decoherence rate in both settings is linear in temperature.

id: 1210.7844
title: Unified spectral bounds on the chromatic number
authors: Clive Elphick, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7844
abstract: One of the best known results in spectral graph theory is the following lower bound on the chromatic number due to Alan Hoffman, where mu_1 and mu_n are respectively the maximum and minimum eigenvalues of the adjacency matrix: chi >= 1 + mu_1 / (- mu_n). We recently generalised this bound to include all eigenvalues of the adjacency matrix. In this paper, we further generalize these results to include all eigenvalues of the adjacency, Laplacian and signless Laplacian matrices. The various known bounds are also unified by considering the normalized adjacency matrix, and examples are cited for which the new bounds outperform known bounds.

id: 1210.7929
title: Measurement-Only Topological Quantum Computation via Tunable Interactions
authors: Parsa Bonderson
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures; v2: correction made to discussion regarding allowed pairwise projections for generating braiding transformations, minor clarifications added; v3: minor corrections and clarifications
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 035113 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7929
abstract: I examine, in general, how tunable interactions may be used to perform anyonic teleportation and generate braiding transformations for non-Abelian anyons. I explain how these methods are encompassed by the "measurement-only" approach to topological quantum computation. The physically most relevant example of Ising anyons or Majorana zero-modes is considered in detail, particularly in the context of Majorana nanowires.

id: 1210.7957
title: Fast dynamics for atoms in optical lattices
authors: Mateusz Lacki, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: 4pp+supplement, final version accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett.110,065301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7957
abstract: Cold atoms in optical lattices allow for accurate studies of many body dynamics. Rapid time-dependent modifications of optical lattice potentials may result in significant excitations in atomic systems. The dynamics in such a case is frequently quite incompletely described by standard applications of tight-binding models (such as e.g. Bose-Hubbard model or its extensions) that typically neglect the effect of the dynamics on the transformation between the real space and the tight-binding basis. We illustrate the importance of a proper quantum mechanical description using a multi-band extended Bose-Hubbard model with time-dependent Wannier functions. We apply it to situations, directly related to experiments.

id: 1210.7984
title: Shifts and widths of Feshbach resonances in atomic waveguides
authors: Shahpoor Saeidian, Vladimir S. Melezhik, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7984
abstract: We develop and analyze a theoretical model which yields the shifts and widths of Feshbach resonances in an atomic waveguide. It is based on a multichannel approach for confinement-induced resonances (CIRs) and atomic transitions in the waveguides in the multimode regime. We replace in this scheme the single-channel scalar interatomic interaction by the four-channel tensorial potential modeling resonances of broad, narrow and overlapping character according to the two-channel parametrization of A.D.Lange et al. As an input the experimentally known parameters of Feshbach resonances in the absence of the waveguide are used. We calculate the shifts and widths of s-, d- and g-wave magnetic Feshbach resonances of Cs atoms emerging in harmonic waveguides as CIRs and resonant enhancement of the transmission at zeros of the free space scattering length. We have found the linear dependence of the width of the resonance on the longitudinal atomic momentum and quadratic dependence on the waiveguide width. Our model opens novel possibilities for quantitative studies of the scattering processes in ultracold atomic gases in waveguides beyond the framework of s-wave resonant scattering.

id: 1210.8055
title: A Synthesis Method for Quaternary Quantum Logic Circuits
authors: Sudhindu Bikash Mandal, Amlan Chakrabarti, Susmita Sur-Kolay
comments: 10 pages
journal: Progress in VLSI Design and Test Lecture Notes in Computer Science Volume 7373, 2012, pp 270-280
subjects: Other Computer Science (cs.OH); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8055
abstract: Synthesis of quaternary quantum circuits involves basic quaternary gates and logic operations in the quaternary quantum domain. In this paper, we propose new projection operations and quaternary logic gates for synthesizing quaternary logic functions. We also demonstrate the realization of the proposed gates using basic quantum quaternary operations. We then employ our synthesis method to design of quaternary adder and some benchmark circuits. Our results in terms of circuit cost, are better than the existing works.

id: 1210.8077
title: Studies on Negative Refractive Index without Absorption
authors: R.M. Rajapakse, E. Kuznetsova, S.F. Yelin
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8077
abstract: Which systems are ideal to obtain negative refraction with no absorption? Electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) is a method to suppress absorption and make a material transparent to a field of a given frequency. Such a system has been discussed in [1]; however the main limitations for negative refraction introduced are the necessity of resonant electric and magnetic dipole transitions, and the necessity of very dense media. We suggest using frequency translators in a composite system that would provide negative refraction for a range of optical frequencies while attempting to overcome the limitations discussed above. In the process of using frequency translators, we also find composite systems that can be used for refractive index enhancement.

id: 1210.8127
title: Ion-laser interactions: The most complete solution
authors: H¨¦ctor Moya-Cessa, Francisco Soto-Eguibar, Jos¨¦ M. Vargas-Mart¨ªnez, Ra¨²l Ju¨¢rez-Amaro, Arturo Z¨²?iga-Segundo
comments: 42 pages, 15 figures
journal: Physics Reports 513 (2012) 229-261
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8127
abstract: Trapped ions are considered one of the best candidates to perform quantum information processing. By interacting them with laser beams they are, somehow, easy to manipulate, which makes them an excellent choice for the production of nonclassical states of their vibrational motion, the reconstruction of quasiprobability distribution functions, the production of quantum gates, etc. However, most of these effects have been produced in the so-called low intensity regime, this is, when the Rabi frequency is much smaller than the trap frequency. Because of the possibility to produce faster quantum gates in other regimes it is of importance to study this system in a more complete manner, which is the motivation for this contribution. We start by studying the way ions are trapped in Paul traps in and review the basic mechanisms of trapping. Then we show how the problem may be completely solved for trapping states; i.e., we find eigenstates of the full Hamiltonian. We show how in the low intensity regime Jaynes-Cummings and anti-Jaynes-Cummings interactions may be obtained, without using the rotating wave approximation and analyze the medium and high intensity regimes were dispersive Hamiltonians are produced. The traditional approach is also studied and used for the generation of non-classical states of the vibrational of the vibrational wavefunction. In particular, we show how to add and subtract vibrational quanta to an initial state, how to produce specific superpositions of number states and how to generate NOON states for the two-dimensional vibration of the ion. It is also shown how squeezing may be measured. The time dependent problem is studied by using Lewis-Ermakov methods, we give a solution to the problem when the time dependence of the trap is considered and also analyze an specific time dependence that produces squeezing of the initial vibrational wave function.

id: 1210.8132
title: Two-photon scattering of a tightly focused weak light beam from a small atomic ensemble : an optical probe to detect atomic level structures
authors: Dibyendu Roy
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063819 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8132
abstract: We study two-photon scattering of a tightly focused weak light beam from a small atomic ensemble of two-level atoms (2LAs). This is similar to the scattering of photons from an atomic ensemble in a one-dimensional waveguide. The scaling of two-photon nonlinearity at single-photon resonance shows a non-monotonic behaviour with an increasing number of few identical 2LAs. The two-photon nonlinearity decays monotonically with an increasing number of atoms for incident photons detuned from single-photon resonance. Single-photon transport in two 2LAs is similar to that in a single V-type three-level atom (3LA). However two-photon transport in these two systems shows very different line-shapes. When single-photon transmission is zero in these systems, two transmitted photons are bunched together in a V-type 3LA, while their correlation is zero in two 2LAs. The difference in the two-photon line-shape persists for few 2LAs and 3LAs. Therefore, the two-photon scattering of a tightly focused weak light beam can be used as a probe to detect atomic level structures of different atoms with similar transition energies.

id: 1210.8186
title: Topological Insulating States in Laterally Patterned Ordinary Semiconductors
authors: O. P. Sushkov, A. H. Castro Neto
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, updated refs and minor changes to the text, version published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 186601 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8186
abstract: We propose that ordinary semiconductors with large spin-orbit coupling (SOC), such as GaAs, can host stable, robust, and {\it tunable} topological states in the presence of quantum confinement and superimposed potentials with hexagonal symmetry. We show that the electronic gaps which support chiral spin edge states can be as large as the electronic bandwidth in the heterostructure miniband. The existing lithographic technology can produce a topological insulator (TI) operating at temperature $10- 100K$. Improvement of lithographic techniques will open way to tunable room temperature TI.

id: 1210.8297
title: A geometric approach to confining a Dirac neutral particle in analogous way to a quantum dot
authors: Knut Bakke
comments: 13 pages, no figure
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 85, 354 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8297
abstract: We discuss a geometric approach to confining a Dirac neutral particle with a permanent magnetic dipole moment interacting with external fields to a hard-wall confining potential in the Minkowski spacetime through noninertial effects. We discuss the behaviour of external fields induced by noninertial effects, and a case where relativistic bound states can be achieved in analogous way to having a Dirac particle confined to a quantum dot. We show that this confinement of a Dirac neutral particle analogous to a quantum dot arises from noninertial effects that give rise to the geometry of the manifold playing the role of a hard-wall confining potential. We also discuss the possible use of this mathematical model in studies of noninertial effects on condensed matter systems described by the Dirac equation.

id: 1210.8348
title: Lorentz Covariant Lattice Gauge Theory
authors: Timothy D. Andersen
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8348
abstract: Lattice gauge theory's discretization of spacetime suffers from a drawback in that Lorentz covariance is lost because the axes of the lattice create preferred directions in spacetime. Smaller and smaller lattice spacings decrease the effect but fail to eliminate it completely. It has been argued recently that detecting such a set of preferred directions or similar constraints would indicate whether the universe itself has an underlying lattice, i.e. the digital universe hypothesis. In this paper, I demonstrate a technique for accomplishing lattice gauge theory simulations while maintaining exact Lorentz covariance by replacing the lattice with a lattice graph such that the metric is defined as a discrete, Lorentz covariant matrix potential over the graph rather than a metric over an underlying manifold. This technique eliminates the symmetry violation of standard lattice gauge theory and suggests that, even in a digital universe, Lorentz covariance can still hold.

id: 1210.8354
title: Progress in the mathematical theory of quantum disordered systems
authors: Walter F. Wreszinski
comments: 42 pages, 1 figure, expanded version of talks at Bressanone and Goettingen, with several important additions regarding the Anderson transition
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.8354
abstract: We review recent progress in the mathematical theory of quantum disordered systems: the Anderson transition, including some joint work with Domingos Marchetti, the (quantum and classical) Edwards-Anderson (EA) spin-glass model and return to equilibrium for a class of spin-glass models, which includes the EA model initially in a very large transverse field.

id: 1210.7329
title: The Zeeman Effect in Finance: Libor Spectroscopy and Basis Risk Management
authors: Marco Bianchetti
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Pricing of Securities (q-fin.PR); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Risk Management (q-fin.RM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7329
abstract: Once upon a time there was a classical financial world in which all the Libors were equal. Standard textbooks taught that simple relations held, such that, for example, a 6 months Libor Deposit was replicable with a 3 months Libor Deposits plus a 3x6 months Forward Rate Agreement (FRA), and that Libor was a good proxy of the risk free rate required as basic building block of no-arbitrage pricing theory. Nowadays, in the modern financial world after the credit crunch, some Libors are more equal than others, depending on their rate tenor, and classical formulas are history. Banks are not anymore too "big to fail", Libors are fixed by panels of risky banks, and they are risky rates themselves. These simple empirical facts carry very important consequences in derivative's trading and risk management, such as, for example, basis risk, collateralization and regulatory pressure in favour of Central Counterparties. Something that should be carefully considered by anyone managing even a single plain vanilla Swap. In this qualitative note we review the problem trying to shed some light on this modern animal farm, recurring to an analogy with quantum physics, the Zeeman effect.

id: 1210.7392
title: Electronic Structure and Optical Properties of the Lonsdaleite Phase of Si, Ge and diamond
authors: Amrit De, Craig E. Pryor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.7392
abstract: Crystalline semiconductors may exist in different polytypic phases with significantly different electronic and optical properties. In this paper, we calculate the electronic structure and optical properties of diamond, Si and Ge in the lonsdaleite (hexagonal-diamond) phase. We use an empirical pseudopotentials method based on transferable model potentials, including spin-orbit interactions. We obtain band structures, densities of states and complex dielectric functions calculated in the dipole approximation for light polarized perpendicular and parallel to the c-axis of the crystal. We find strong polarization dependent optical anisotropy. Simple analytical expressions are provided for the dispersion relations. We find that in the lonsdaleite phase, diamond and Si remain indirect gap semiconductors while Ge is transformed into a direct gap semiconductor with a significantly smaller band gap.

id: 1210.1657
title: Strong thermomechanical squeezing via weak measurement
authors: Alex Szorkovszky, George A. Brawley, Andrew C. Doherty, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures including supplementary info
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 184301 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1657
abstract: We experimentally surpass the 3dB limit to steady state parametric squeezing of a mechanical oscillator. The localization of a AFM cantilever, achieved by optimal estimation, is enhanced by up to 6.2 dB in one position quadrature when a detuned parametric drive is used. This squeezing is, in principle, limited only by the oscillator Q-factor. Used on low temperature, high frequency oscillators, this technique provides a pathway to achieve robust quantum squeezing below the zero-point motion. Broadly, our results demonstrate that control systems engineering can overcome well established limits in applications of nonlinear processes. Conversely, by localizing the mechanical position to better than the measurement precision of our apparatus, they demonstrate the usefulness of nonlinearities in control applications.

