id: 1211.0048
title: The canonical Naimark extension for the Pauli quantum roulette wheel
authors: Carlo Sparaciari, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, published on PRA with a different title (the arXiv one was too sexy)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012106 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0048
abstract: We address measurement schemes where certain observables are chosen at random within a set of non-degenerate isospectral observables and then measured on repeated preparations of a physical system. Each observable has a given probability to be measured, and the statistics of this generalized measurement is described by a positive operator-valued measure (POVM). This kind of schemes are referred to as quantum roulettes since each observable is chosen at random, e.g. according to the fluctuating value of an external parameter. Here we focus on quantum roulettes for qubits involving the measurements of Pauli matrices and we explicitly evaluate their canonical Naimark extensions, i.e. their implementation as indirect measurements involving an interaction scheme with a probe system. We thus provide a concrete model to realize the roulette without destroying the signal state, which can be measured again after the measurement, or can be transmitted. Finally, we apply our results to the description of Stern-Gerlach-like experiments on a two-level system.

id: 1211.0049
title: Remarks on on Kim's Strong Subadditivity Matrix Inequality: Extensions and Equality Conditions
authors: Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: Kim's remarkable strengthening in arXiv:1210.5190 of strong subadditvity of quantum entropy to a matrix inequality was posted very close to the 40th anniversary of the actual proof of SSA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0049
abstract: We describe recent work of Kim in arXiv:1210.5190 to show that operator convex functions associated with quasi-entropies can be used to prove a large class of new matrix inequalities in the tri-partite and bi-partite setting by taking a judiciously chosen partial trace over all but one of the spaces. We give some additional examples in both settings. Furthermore, we observe that the equality conditions for all the new inequalities are essentially the same as those for strong subadditivity.

id: 1211.0050
title: A single ion coupled to an optical fiber cavity
authors: Matthias Steiner, Hendrik M. Meyer, Christian Deutsch, Jakob Reichel, Michael K?hl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 043003 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0050
abstract: We present the realization of a combined trapped-ion and optical cavity system, in which a single Yb^+ ion is confined by a micron-scale ion trap inside a 230 mum-long optical fiber cavity. We characterize the spatial ion-cavity coupling and measure the ion-cavity coupling strength using a cavity-stimulated Lambda-transition. Owing to the small mode volume of the fiber resonator, the coherent coupling strength between the ion and a single photon exceeds the natural decay rate of the dipole moment. This system can be integrated into ion-photon quantum networks and is a step towards cavity quantum-electrodynamics (cavity-QED) based quantum information processing with trapped ions.

id: 1211.0064
title: Self-stabilized Quantum Optical Fredkin Gate
authors: Jonathan Hu, Yu-Ping Huang, Prem Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0064
abstract: Quantum optical Fredkin gate is an indispensable resource for networkable quantum applications. Its performance in practical implementations, however, is limited fundamentally by the inherent quantum fluctuations of the pump waves. We demonstrate a method to overcome this drawback by exploiting stimulated Raman scattering in fiber-based implementations. Using a Sagnac fiber-loop switch as a specific example, we show that high switching contrast can be maintained even in the presence of significant pump fluctuations. This unique feature of self-stabilization, together with high-speed and low-loss performance of such devices, point to a viable technology for practical quantum communications.

id: 1211.0067
title: Quantum and classical dissipation of charged particles
authors: V.G. Ibarra-Sierra, A. Anzaldo-Meneses, J.L. Cardoso, H. Hern¨¢ndez-Salda?a, A. Kunold, J. A. E. Roa-Neri
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, misprints and figures corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0067
abstract: A Hamiltonian approach is presented to study the two dimensional motion of damped electric charges in time dependent electromagnetic fields. The classical and the corresponding quantum mechanical problems are solved for particular cases using canonical transformations applied to Hamiltonians for a particle with variable mass. The Green's function is constructed and, from it, the motion of a Gaussian wave packet is studied in detail.

id: 1211.0082
title: Complete analysis and generation of hyperentangled Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state for photons using quantum-dot spins in optical microcavities
authors: Tie-Jun Wang, Si-Yu Song, Gui Lu Long
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1207.0168 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0082
abstract: We propose a scheme for the complete differentiation of 64 three-photon hyperentangled GHZ states in both polarization and spatial-mode degrees of freedoms using the quantum-dot cavity system. The three-photon hyperentangled-GHZ-state-analysis scheme can also be used to generate 3-photon hyperentangled GHZ states. This proposed hyperentangled analysis and generation device can serve as crucial components of the high-capacity, long-distance quantum communication. We use quantum swapping as an example to show the application of this device in quantum communication with polarization and spatial-mode degrees of freedoms. Using numerical calculations, we show that the present scheme may be feasible in strong-coupling regimes with current technologies.

id: 1211.0120
title: On the Purity and Indistinguishability of Down-Converted Photons
authors: C. I. Osorio, N. Sangouard, R. T. Thew
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, submitted to the Journal of Physics B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 055501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0120
abstract: Photons generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC) are one of the most useful resources in quantum information science. Two of their most important characteristics are the purity and the indistinguishability, which determine just how useful they are as a resource. We show how these characteristics can both be accessed through Hong, Ou and Mandel (HOM) type interferences using a single pair source. We also provide simple and intuitive analytical formulas to extract their values from the depth of the resulting interference patterns. The validity of these expressions is demonstrated by a comparison with experimental results and numerical simulations. These results provide an essential tool for both engineering SPDC sources and characterizing the quantum states that they emit, which will play an increasingly important role in developing complex quantum photonic experiments.

id: 1211.0133
title: Implementation schemes for unsharp measurements with trapped ions
authors: S.K. Choudhary, T. Konrad, H. Uys
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0133
abstract: Unsharp POVM measurements allow a variety of measurement applications which minimally disrupt the state of the quantum system. Experimental schemes are proposed for implementing unsharp measurements on the qubit levels of a trapped ion. The schemes rely on introducing weak entanglement between the state of a target ion, and that of an auxiliary ion, using standard ion trap quantum logic operations, and then realizing an unsharp measurement through projective measurement on the auxiliary atom. We analyze common sources of error and their effect on different applications of unsharp measurements.

id: 1211.0172
title: Symmetries in discrete time quantum walks on Cayley graphs
authors: V¨¢clav Poto?ek
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0172
abstract: We address the question of symmetries of an important type of quantum walks. We introduce all the necessary definitions and provide a rigorous formulation of the problem. Using a thorough analysis, we reach the complete answer by presenting a constructive method of finding all solutions of the problem with minimal additional assumptions. We apply the results on an example of a quantum walk on a line to demonstrate the practical significance of the theory.

id: 1211.0183
title: Thermodynamics of discrete quantum processes
authors: Janet Anders, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 14pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 033022
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0183
abstract: We define thermodynamic configurations and identify two primitives of discrete quantum processes between configurations for which heat and work can be defined in a natural way. This allows us to uncover a general second law for any discrete trajectory that consists of a sequence of these primitives, linking both equilibrium and non-equilibrium configurations. Moreover, in the limit of a discrete trajectory that passes through an infinite number of configurations, i.e. in the reversible limit, we recover the saturation of the second law. Finally, we show that for a discrete Carnot cycle operating between four configurations one recovers Carnot's thermal efficiency.

id: 1211.0195
title: Quantum network teleportation for quantum information distribution and concentration
authors: Yong-Liang Zhang, Yi-Nan Wang, Xiang-Ru Xiao, Li Jing, Liang-Zhu Mu, V. E. Korepin, Heng Fan
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0195
abstract: We investigate the schemes of quantum network teleportation for quantum information distribution and concentration which are essential in quantum cloud computation and quantum internet. In those schemes, the cloud can send simultaneously identical unknown quantum states to clients located in different places by a network like teleportation with a prior shared multipartite entangled state resource. The cloud first perform the quantum operation, each client can recover their quantum state locally by using the classical information announced by the cloud about the measurement result. The number of clients can be beyond the number of identical quantum states intentionally being sent, this quantum network teleportation can make sure that the retrieved quantum state is optimal. Furthermore, we present a scheme to realize its reverse process, which concentrates the states from the clients to reconstruct the original state of the cloud. These schemes facilitate the quantum information distribution and concentration in quantum networks in the framework of quantum cloud computation. Potential applications in time synchronization are discussed.

id: 1211.0196
title: The role of the observer in the Everett interpretation
authors: H. Dieter Zeh
comments: 12 pages; v2: minor changes and extended abstract; v3: further comments and references added, 13 pages
journal: NeuroQuantology 11, 97-105 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0196
abstract: The role attributed to the observer in various interpretations of quantum mechanics as well as in classical statistical mechanics is discussed, with particular attention being paid to the Everett interpretation. In this context, the important difference between "quasi-classical" (robust against decoherence) and "macroscopic" or "physically given" (redundantly documented in the environment) is pointed out.

id: 1211.0231
title: Strategies for enhancing quantum entanglement by local photon subtraction
authors: Tim J. Bartley, Philip J. D. Crowley, Animesh Datta, Joshua Nunn, Lijian Zhang, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures. Updated version for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022313 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0231
abstract: Subtracting photons from a two-mode squeezed state is a well-known method to increase entanglement. We analyse different strategies of local photon subtraction from a two-mode squeezed state in terms of entanglement gain and success probability. We develop a general framework that incorporates imperfections and losses in all stages of the process: before, during, and after subtraction. By combining all three effects into a single efficiency parameter, we provide analytical and numerical results for subtraction strategies using photon-number-resolving and threshold detectors. We compare the entanglement gain afforded by symmetric and asymmetric subtraction scenarios across the two modes. For a given amount of loss, we identify an optimised set of parameters, such as initial squeezing and subtraction beam splitter transmissivity, that maximise the entanglement gain rate. We identify regimes for which asymmetric subtraction of different Fock states on the two modes outperforms symmetric strategies. In the lossless limit, subtracting a single photon from one mode always produces the highest entanglement gain rate. In the lossy case, the optimal strategy depends strongly on the losses on each mode individually, such that there is no general optimal strategy. Rather, taking losses on each mode as the only input parameters, we can identify the optimal subtraction strategy and required beam splitter transmissivities and initial squeezing parameter. Finally, we discuss the implications of our results for the distillation of continuous-variable quantum entanglement.

id: 1211.0261
title: Quantum sensors based on weak-value amplification cannot overcome decoherence
authors: George C. Knee, G. Andrew D. Briggs, Simon C. Benjamin, Erik M. Gauger
comments: Published version with improvements to presentation, including clarifying our understanding of technical noise and quantum noise
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012115 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0261
abstract: Sensors that harness exclusively quantum phenomena (such as entanglement) can achieve superior performance compared to those employing only classical principles. Recently, a technique based on postselected, weakly-performed measurements has emerged as a method of overcoming technical noise in the detection and estimation of small interaction parameters, particularly in optical systems. The question of which other types of noise may be combatted remains open. We here analyze whether the effect can overcome decoherence in a typical field sensing scenario. Benchmarking a weak, postselected measurement strategy against a strong, direct strategy we conclude that no advantage is achievable, and that even a small amount of decoherence proves catastrophic to the weak-value amplification technique.

id: 1211.0322
title: Self-Consistent Quantum Process Tomography
authors: Seth T. Merkel, Jay M. Gambetta, John A. Smolin, S. Poletto, A. D. C¨®rcoles, B. R. Johnson, Colm A. Ryan, M. Steffen
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062119 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0322
abstract: Quantum process tomography is a necessary tool for verifying quantum gates and diagnosing faults in architectures and gate design. We show that the standard approach of process tomography is grossly inaccurate in the case where the states and measurement operators used to interrogate the system are generated by gates that have some systematic error, a situation all but unavoidable in any practical setting. These errors in tomography can not be fully corrected through oversampling or by performing a larger set of experiments. We present an alternative method for tomography to reconstruct an entire library of gates in a self-consistent manner. The essential ingredient is to define a likelihood function that assumes nothing about the gates used for preparation and measurement. In order to make the resulting optimization tractable we linearize about the target, a reasonable approximation when benchmarking a quantum computer as opposed to probing a black-box function.

id: 1211.0351
title: Optimal multi-photon entanglement concentration with the photonic Faraday rotation
authors: Lan Zhou
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1210.6178
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0351
abstract: A recent paper (Phys. Rev. A \textbf{86}, 034305 (2012)) proposed an entanglement concentration protocol (ECP) for distilling one pair of maximally entangled multi-photon Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state from two pairs of less-entangled multi-photon states with the photonic Faraday rotation. In this paper, we put forward an improved ECP for arbitrary less-entangled multi-photon GHZ state. In the ECP, we only require one pair of less-entangled multi-photon state and one auxiliary photon, and the whole concentration process only requires local operations. Moreover, our ECP can be used repeatedly to further concentrate the less-entangled multi-photon state and obtain a higher success probability. If consider the practical operation and imperfect detection, our protocol is more efficient. This ECP may be useful in current quantum information processing.

id: 1211.0370
title: Experimental test of universal complementarity relations
authors: Morgan M. Weston, Michael J. W. Hall, Matthew S. Palsson, Howard M. Wiseman, Geoff J. Pryde
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 220402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0370
abstract: Complementarity restricts the accuracy with which incompatible quantum observables can be jointly measured. Despite popular conception, the Heisenberg uncertainty relation does not quantify this principle. We report the experimental verification of universally valid complementarity relations, including an improved relation derived here. We exploit Einstein-Poldolsky-Rosen correlations between two photonic qubits, to jointly measure incompatible observables of one. The product of our measurement inaccuracies is low enough to violate the widely used, but not universally valid, Arthurs-Kelly relation.

id: 1211.0386
title: Criteria and new classes of k-positive maps
authors: Jinchuan Hou, Chi-Kwong Li, Yiu-Tung Poon, Xiaofei Qi, Nung-Sing Sze
comments: 23 pages, revised title, added references and minor revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0386
abstract: We study k-positive maps on operators. Proofs are given to different positivity criteria. Special attention is on positive maps arising in the study of quantum information science. Results of other researchers are extended and improved. New classes of positive maps are constructed. Some open questions are answered.

id: 1211.0404
title: Deterministic generation of arbitrary symmetric states and entanglement classes
authors: L. Lamata, C. E. Lopez, B. P. Lanyon, T. Bastin, J. C. Retamal, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, published in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032325 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0404
abstract: We propose a method to generate arbitrary symmetric states of N qubits, which can be easily associated with their entanglement classes. It is particularly suited to quantum optics systems like trapped ions or superconducting circuits. We encode each qubit in two metastable levels of the system and use a bosonic quantum bus for creating the states. The method is deterministic and relies on a sequence of selective unitary gates upon the qubits within the system coherence time.

id: 1211.0432
title: Continuous intracavity monitoring of the dynamical Casimir effect
authors: A. V. Dodonov
comments: Short review on the dynamical Casimir effect in the presence of quantum detectors. 8 pages, 3 figures. To be published in the CAMOP special section of Physica Scripta
journal: Phys. Scr. 87, 038103 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0432
abstract: Dynamical Casimir effect (DCE) is the name assigned to the process of generating quanta from vacuum due to an accelerated motion of macroscopic neutral bodies (mirrors) or time-modulation of cavity material properties, as well as the simulation of such processes. Here I review the theoretical results on the detection of DCE using intracavity quantum detectors, such as multi-level atoms, atomic networks and harmonic oscillators. I also stress the mathematical equivalence of this problem to the physics of optical parametric oscillators interacting with atoms or quantum wells, studied in Quantum Nonlinear Optics.

id: 1211.0436
title: Quasi-Probability Distribution Functions for Optical-Polarization
authors: Ravi S. Singh, Sunil P. Singh, Gyaneshwar K. Gupta
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Proc. SPIE 8173, 817310 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0436
abstract: Cahill-Glauber C(s)-correspondence is employed to construct Quasi-Probability Distribution Functions (QPDFs) for optical-polarization in phase space following equivalent description of polarization in Classical Optics. The proposed scheme provides pragmatic insights as compared to obscure SU (2) quasi-distributions on Poincare sphere. QPDF (Wigner function) of bi-modal quadrature coherent states is evaluated and numerically investigated to demonstrate the application.

id: 1211.0464
title: Improved lower and upper bounds for entanglement of formation
authors: Xue-Na Zhu, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86 (2012) 054301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0464
abstract: We provide analytical lower and upper bounds for entanglement of formation for bipartite systems, which give a direct relation between the bounds of entanglement of formation and concurrence, and improve the previous results. Detailed examples are presented.

id: 1211.0505
title: Perfect State Transfer on Signed Graphs
authors: J. Brown, C. Godsil, D. Mallory, A. Raz, C. Tamon
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures, 1 table
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, vol. 13, no. 5&6, pages 511-530, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0505
abstract: We study perfect state transfer of quantum walks on signed graphs. Our aim is to show that negative edges are useful for perfect state transfer. Specific results we prove include: (1) The signed join of a negative 2-clique with any positive (n,3)-regular graph has perfect state transfer even if the unsigned join does not. Curiously, the perfect state transfer time improves as n increases. (2) A signed complete graph has perfect state transfer if its positive subgraph is a regular graph with perfect state transfer and its negative subgraph is periodic. This shows that signing is useful for creating perfect state transfer since no complete graph (except for the 2-clique) has perfect state transfer. (3) The double-cover of a signed graph has perfect state transfer if the positive subgraph has perfect state transfer and the negative subgraph is periodic. Here, signing is useful for constructing unsigned graphs with perfect state transfer. Furthermore, we study perfect state transfer on a family of signed graphs called the exterior powers which is derived from a many-fermion quantum walk on graphs.

id: 1211.0506
title: Thermodynamic cost of acquiring information
authors: Kaonan Micadei, Roberto M. Serra, Lucas C. Celeri
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 062123 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0506
abstract: Connections between information theory and thermodynamics have proven to be very useful to establish bounding limits for physical processes. Ideas such as Landauer's erasure principle and information assisted work extraction have greatly contributed not only to enlarge our understanding about the fundamental limits imposed by nature, but also to enlighten the path for practical implementations of information processing devices. The intricate information-thermodynamics relation also entails a fundamental limit on parameter estimation, establishing a thermodynamic cost for information acquisition. More specifically, we show that the amount of information that can be encoded in a physical system (and consequently extracted) by means of any process is limited by the dissipated work during the implementation of the process. This includes a thermodynamic trade-off for information acquisition. Likewise, any information acquisition process is ultimately limited by the second law of thermodynamics. Such a trade-off may find applications in several areas of knowledge, since parameter estimation lies in the building basis of all natural sciences and several technological applications, such as metrology.

id: 1211.0573
title: Collectibility for Mixed Quantum States
authors: ?ukasz Rudnicki, Zbigniew Pucha?a, Pawe? Horodecki, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 13 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062329 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0573
abstract: Bounds analogous to entropic uncertainty relations allow one to design practical tests to detect quantum entanglement by a collective measurement performed on several copies of the state analyzed. This approach, initially worked out for pure states only [Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 150502 (2011)], is extended here for mixed quantum states. We define collectibility for any mixed states of a multipartite system. Deriving bounds for collectibility for positive partially transposed states of given purity provides a new insight into the structure of entangled quantum states. In case of two qubits the application of complementary measurements and coincidence based detections leads to a new test of entanglement of pseudopure states.

id: 1211.0581
title: Entanglement and area laws in weakly correlated gaussian states
authors: J.M. Matera, R. Rossignoli, N. Canosa
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: J.M. Matera, R. Rossignoli, and N. Canosa, Phys. Rev. A 86, 062324 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0581
abstract: We examine the evaluation of entanglement measures in weakly correlated gaussian states. It is shown that they can be expressed in terms of the singular values of a particular block of the generalized contraction matrix. This result enables to obtain in a simple way asymptotic expressions and related area laws for the entanglement entropy of bipartitions in pure states, as well as for the logarithmic negativity associated with bipartitions and also pairs of arbitrary subsystems. As illustration, we consider different types of contiguous and noncontiguous blocks in two dimensional lattices. Exact asymptotic expressions are provided for both first neighbor and full range couplings, which lead in the first case to area laws depending on the orientation and separation of the blocks.

id: 1211.0588
title: Unconditional generation of bright coherent non-Gaussian light from exciton-polariton condensates
authors: Tim Byrnes, Yoshihisa Yamamoto, Peter van Loock
comments: 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 201301(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0588
abstract: Exciton-polariton condensates are considered as a deterministic source of bright, coherent non-Gaussian light. Exciton-polariton condensates emit coherent light via the photoluminescence through the microcavity mirrors due to the spontaneous formation of coherence. Unlike conventional lasers which emit coherent Gaussian light, polaritons possess a natural nonlinearity due to the interaction of the excitonic component. This produces light with a negative component to the Wigner function at steady-state operation when the phase is stabilized via a suitable method such as injection locking. In contrast to many other proposals for sources of non-Gaussian light, in our case, the light typically has an average photon number exceeding one and emerges as a continuous wave. Such a source may have uses in continuous-variable quantum information and communication.

id: 1211.0617
title: A new scheme for probabilistic teleportation and its potential applications
authors: Jiahua Wei, Hong-Yi Dai, Ming Zhang
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0617
abstract: We propose a novel scheme for probabilistic teleportation when the information of the partially entangled state is only available for the sender. This is in contrast with the fact that the receiver must know the non-maximally entangled state in previous typical schemes for the teleportation. Additionally, we illustrate two potential applications of the novel scheme to probabilistically teleport an unknown two-level quantum state from a sender to a receiver with the help of an assistant, who plays distinguishable roles under different communication conditions, and the applications indicate that our proposal could improve the security and enlarge the applied range of probabilistic teleportation.

id: 1211.0629
title: Comment on "Complete insecurity of quantum protocols for classical two-party computation"
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: 1.5 pages. Comment on the paper PRL 109, 160501 (2012), which also appeared as arXiv:1201.0849. The locations of the original content cited in this comment are referred to those in the PRL version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0629
abstract: In a recent paper (Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 160501 (2012). arXiv:1201.0849), it is claimed that any quantum protocol for classical two-sided computation between Alice and Bob can be proven completely insecure for Alice if it is secure against Bob. Here we show that the proof is not sufficiently general, because the security definition it based on is only a sufficient condition but not a necessary condition.

id: 1211.0650
title: Maximal quantum randomness in Bell tests
authors: Chirag Dhara, Giuseppe Prettico, Antonio Acin
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052116 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0650
abstract: The non-local correlations exhibited when measuring entangled particles can be used to certify the presence of genuine randomness in Bell experiments. While non-locality is necessary for randomness certification, it is unclear when and why non-locality certifies maximal randomness. We provide here a simple argument to certify the presence of maximal local and global randomness based on symmetries of a Bell inequality and the existence of a unique quantum probability distribution that maximally violates it. Using our findings, we prove the existence of N-party Bell test attaining maximal global randomness, that is, where a combination of measurements by each party provides N perfect random bits.

id: 1211.0721
title: Superlinear advantage for exact quantum algorithms
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 20 pages, v6: small number of small corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0721
abstract: A quantum algorithm is exact if, on any input data, it outputs the correct answer with certainty (probability 1). A key question is: how big is the advantage of exact quantum algorithms over their classical counterparts: deterministic algorithms. For total Boolean functions in the query model, the biggest known gap was just a factor of 2: PARITY of N inputs bits requires $N$ queries classically but can be computed with N/2 queries by an exact quantum algorithm. We present the first example of a Boolean function f(x_1, ..., x_N) for which exact quantum algorithms have superlinear advantage over the deterministic algorithms. Any deterministic algorithm that computes our function must use N queries but an exact quantum algorithm can compute it with O(N^{0.8675...}) queries.

id: 1211.0755
title: Exceptional points and quantum correlations in precise measurements
authors: A. Thilagam
comments: 13 pages, misprints fixed
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 444031 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0755
abstract: We examine the physical manifestations of exceptional points and passage times in a two-level system which is subjected to quantum measurements and which admits a non-Hermitian description. Using an effective Hamiltonian acting in the two-dimensional space spanned by the evolving initial and final states, the effects of highly precise quantum measurements in which the monitoring device interferes significantly with the evolution dynamics of the monitored two-level system is analysed. The dynamics of a multipartite system consisting of the two-level system, a source of external potential and the measurement device is examined using correlation measures such as entanglement and non-classical quantum correlations. Results show that the quantum correlations between the monitored (monitoring) systems is considerably decreased (increased) as the measurement precision nears the exceptional point, at which the passage time is half of the measurement duration. The results indicate that the underlying mechanism by which the non-classical correlations of quantum systems are transferred from one subsystem to another may be better revealed via use of geometric approaches.

id: 1211.0766
title: Multiple path adiabatic crossing in a 3 site ring
authors: Dotan Davidovich, Doron Cohen
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, J. Phys. A accepted version
journal: J. Phys. A 46, 085302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0766
abstract: We find an exact expression for the current that is induced in a 3 site ring during a multiple-path adiabatic crossing. The understanding of the dynamics requires to go beyond the two-level phenomenology. In particular we highlight a prototype process, "adiabatic metamorphosis", during which current is flowing through a non-accessible site. This helps to understand the crossover from coherent non-classical splitting to stochastic noisy-alike partitioning of the current.

id: 1211.0770
title: Cooling a charged mechanical resonator with time-dependent bias gate voltages
authors: Jian-Qi Zhang, Yong Li, Mang Feng
comments: 9 pages,7 figures, accepted by J.Phys: Cond.Matt (Fast track communication)
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 25 142201 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0770
abstract: We show a purely electronic cooling scheme to cool a charged mechanical resonator (MR) down to nearly the vibrational ground state by elaborately tuning bias gate voltages on the electrodes, which couple the MR by Coulomb interaction. The key step is the modification of time-dependent effective eigen-frequency of the MR based on the Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant. With respect to a relevant idea proposed previously [Li et al., Phys. Rev. A 83, 043803 (2011)], our scheme is simpler, more practical and completely within the reach of current technology.

id: 1211.0784
title: Macroscopic Observability of Spinorial Sign Changes under 2pi Rotations
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures; In a new appendix the vanishing curvature and non-vanishing torsion are calculated explicitly for both the 3-sphere and the real projective space
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 54 (2015) 2042-2067
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0784
abstract: The question of observability of sign changes under 2pi rotations is considered. It is shown that in certain circumstances there are observable consequences of such sign changes in classical physics. A macroscopic experiment is proposed which could in principle detect the 4pi periodicity of rotations.

id: 1211.0819
title: Excitation of time-dependent quantum systems:an application of time-energy uncertainty relations
authors: Tarek Khalil, Jean Richert
comments: 13 pages, 1 table, 3 figures, minor changes
journal: Physica B 457 (2015) 78-81
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0819
abstract: The conditions under which time-energy uncertainty relations derived by Deffner and Lutz [10] for time-dependent quantum systems minimize the time necessary to excite such systems from their ground state to excited states are examined. The generalized Margolus-Levitin and Mandelstam-Tamm inequalities are worked out for specific fermionic and bosonic systems.

id: 1211.0933
title: Quantum Information, Thermofield Dynamics and Thermalized Bosonic Oscillator
authors: Marco A. S. Trindade, Lourival M. Silva Filho, Leandro C. Santos, Maria Gra?as R. Martins, Jos¨¦ David M. Vianna
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B, vol. 27, 24, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0933
abstract: We show through Thermofield Dynamics approach that the action of the thermalized quantum logic gate on the thermalized state is equivalent to thermalization of the state that arise from the application of the non-thermalized quantum logic gate. In particular, we study the effect of temperature on a mixed state associated to a system capable of implementing a CNOT quantum logic gate. According to a proposal in the literature, a way of implementing such a logic gate is by using a representation of the qubit states as elements of the Fock space of a bosonic system. We consider such a proposal and use the Thermofield Dynamics to determine the thermalized qubit states. The temperature acts as a quantum noise on pure states, making them a statistical mixture. In this context we analyze the fidelity as a function of the temperature and using the Mandel parameter, we determine temperature ranges for which the statistics of the system becomes subpoissonian, poissonian and superpoissonian. Finally, we calculate the Wigner function, allowing an analysis of the thermal state in phase space, and we obtain that the increase of temperature decreases non-classical properties of the system. The temperature range where one has a subpoissonian statistics and high fidelity is determined.

id: 1211.0939
title: Super Quantum Discord with Weak Measurements
authors: Uttam Singh, Arun Kumar Pati
comments: Latex, 5 pages, 2 Figs, Monotonicity of the super discord with the measurement strength is included. Application to the entropic uncertainty relation will be reported separately
journal: Annals of Physics, 343 , 141-152 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0939
abstract: Weak measurements cause small change to quantum states, thereby opening up the possibility of new ways of manipulating and controlling quantum systems. We ask, can weak measurements reveal more quantum correlation in a composite quantum state? We prove that the weak measurement induced quantum discord, called as the "super quantum discord", is always larger than the quantum discord captured by the strong measurement. Moreover, we prove the monotonicity of the super quantum discord as a function of the measurement strength. We find that unlike the normal quantum discord, for pure entangled states, the super quantum discord can exceed the quantum entanglement. Our result shows that the notion of quantum correlation is not only observer dependent but also depends on how weakly one perturbs the composite system.

id: 1211.0942
title: Can different quantum state vectors correspond to the same physical state? An experimental test
authors: Daniel Nigg, Thomas Monz, Philipp Schindler, Esteban A. Martinez, Michael Chwalla, Markus Hennrich, Rainer Blatt, Matthew F. Pusey, Terry Rudolph, Jonathan Barrett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0942
abstract: A century on from the development of quantum theory, the interpretation of a quantum state is still discussed. If a physicist claims to have produced a system with a particular wave function, does this represent directly a physical wave of some kind, or is the wave function merely a summary of knowledge, or information, about the system? A recent no-go theorem shows that models in which the wave function is not physical, but corresponds only to an experimenter's information about a hypothetical real state of the system, must make different predictions from quantum theory when a certain test is carried out. Here we report on an experimental implementation using trapped ions. Within experimental error, the results confirm quantum theory. We analyse which kinds of theories are ruled out.

id: 1211.0979
title: Is wave-particle objectivity compatible with determinism and locality?
authors: Radu Ionicioiu, Thomas Jennewein, Robert B. Mann, Daniel R. Terno
comments: A published version. The logic is similar to the original version, but many changes were introduced
journal: Nature Communications 5, 4997 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0979
abstract: Wave-particle duality, superposition and entanglement are among the most counterintuitive features of quantum theory. Their clash with our classical expectations motivated hidden-variable (HV) theories. With the emergence of quantum technologies we can test experimentally the predictions of quantum theory {\em versus} HV theories and put strong restrictions on their key assumptions. Here we study an entanglement-assisted version of the quantum delayed-choice experiment and show that the extension of HV to the controlling devices only exacerbates the contradiction. We compare HV theories that satisfy the conditions of objectivity (a property of photons being either particles or waves, but not both), determinism, and local independence of hidden variables with quantum mechanics. Any two of the above conditions are compatible with it. The conflict becomes manifest when all three conditions are imposed and persists for any non-zero value of entanglement. We propose an experiment to test our conclusions.

id: 1211.0983
title: Symmetries and conservation laws in the Lagrangian picture of quantum hydrodynamics
authors: Peter Holland
comments: 
journal: Concepts and Methods in Modern Theoretical Chemistry: Statistical Mechanics, eds. S.K. Ghosh and P.K. Chattaraj (Taylor & Francis/CRC, Boca Raton, 2013) 55-78
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0983
abstract: Quantum hydrodynamics represents quantum mechanics through two complementary models: the Eulerian picture, a direct transcription of wave mechanics, and the Lagrangian picture, in which the quantum state is represented by the collective motion of a continuum of fluid particles, the latter being obtained by continuously varying the particle label. The Lagrangian picture thus adds variables to the quantum formalism and exhibits a corresponding new quantum symmetry viz. a continuous particle-relabelling covariance group. Using Noether's theorem, the relabelling symmetry is derived as a component of a general investigation of symmetries and conservation laws in the quantum Lagrangian picture. Relations with symmetries and conservation laws in the Eulerian picture are explored in detail. Alongside the infinite relabelling group, the 12-parameter kinematical covariance group of the Schr\"odinger equation is derived. It is stressed that the role of label transformations extends beyond the class corresponding to Eulerian invariance. As an example, it is shown that the linear superposition of waves, a fundamental symmetry of the quantum Eulerian picture, can be generated by a deformation-dependent label transformation in the Lagrangian picture.

id: 1211.1037
title: A Quantitative Landauer's Principle
authors: Philippe Faist, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis, Jonathan Oppenheim, Renato Renner
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1037
abstract: Landauer's Principle states that the work cost of erasure of one bit of information has a fundamental lower bound of kT ln(2). Here we prove a quantitative Landauer's principle for arbitrary processes, providing a general lower bound on their work cost. This bound is given by the minimum amount of (information theoretical) entropy that has to be dumped into the environment, as measured by the conditional max-entropy. The bound is tight up to a logarithmic term in the failure probability. Our result shows that the minimum amount of work required to carry out a given process depends on how much correlation we wish to retain between the input and the output systems, and that this dependence disappears only if we average the cost over many independent copies of the input state. Our proof is valid in a general framework that specifies the set of possible physical operations compatible with the second law of thermodynamics. We employ the technical toolbox of matrix majorization, which we extend and generalize to a new kind of majorization, called lambda-majorization. This allows us to formulate the problem as a semidefinite program and provide an optimal solution.

id: 1211.1080
title: Quantum one-time programs
authors: Anne Broadbent, Gus Gutoski, Douglas Stebila
comments: 62 pages, 5 figures
journal: Advances in Cryptology -- Proc. CRYPTO 2013, LNCS vol. 8043, pp. 344-360, Springer
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1080
abstract: One-time programs are modelled after a black box that allows a single evaluation of a function, and then self-destructs. Because software can, in principle, be copied, general one-time programs exists only in the hardware token model: it has been shown that any function admits a one-time program as long as we assume access to physical devices called one-time memories. Quantum information, with its well-known property of no-cloning, would, at first glance, prevent the basic copying attack for classical programs. We show that this intuition is false: one-time programs for both classical and quantum maps, based solely on quantum information, do not exist, even with computational assumptions. We complement this strong impossibility proof by an equally strong possibility result: assuming the same basic one-time memories as used for classical one-time programs, we show that every quantum map has a quantum one-time program that is secure in the universal composability framework. Our construction relies on a new, simpler quantum authentication scheme and corresponding mechanism for computing on authenticated data.

id: 1211.1092
title: Fundamental limit to Qubit Control with Coherent Field
authors: Kazuhiro Igeta, Nobuyuki Imoto, Masato Koashi
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1092
abstract: The ultimate accuracy as regards controlling a qubit with a coherent field is studied in terms of degradation of the fidelity by employing a fully quantum mechanical treatment. While the fidelity error accompanied by pi/2 pulse control is shown to be inversely proportional to the average photon number in a way similar to that revealed by the Gea-Banacloche's results. Our results show that the error depends strongly on the initial state of the qubit. When the initial state of the qubit is in the ground state, the error is about 20 times smaller than that of the control started from the exited state, no matter how large N is. This dependency is explained in the context of an exact quantum mechanical description of the pulse area theorem. By using the result, the error accumulation tendency of successive pulse controls is found to be both non-linear and initial state-dependent.

id: 1211.1098
title: Disguising quantum channels by mixing and channel distance trade-off
authors: Chi-Hang Fred Fung, H. F. Chau
comments: 27 pages, 8 figures. Added new results for using the disguising problem to lower and upper bound the diamond norm and to upper bound the key generation rate in quantum cryptography
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 105302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1098
abstract: We consider the reverse problem to the distinguishability of two quantum channels, which we call the disguising problem. Given two quantum channels, the goal here is to make the two channels identical by mixing with some other channels with minimal mixing probabilities. This quantifies how much one channel can disguise as the other. In addition, the possibility to trade off between the two mixing probabilities allows one channel to be more preserved (less mixed) at the expense of the other. We derive lower- and upper-bounds of the trade-off curve and apply them to a few example channels. Optimal trade-off is obtained in one example. We relate the disguising problem and the distinguishability problem by showing the the former can lower and upper bound the diamond norm. We also show that the disguising problem gives an upper bound on the key generation rate in quantum cryptography.

id: 1211.1125
title: Limits of privacy amplification against non-signalling memory attacks
authors: Rotem Arnon-Friedman, Amnon Ta-Shma
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062333 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1125
abstract: The task of privacy amplification, in which Alice holds some partially secret information with respect to an adversary Eve and wishes to distill it until it is completely secret, is known to be solvable almost optimally both in the classical and quantum world. Unfortunately, when considering an adversary who is only limited by non-signalling constraints such a statement cannot be made in general. We here prove that under the natural assumptions of time-ordered non-signalling system, which allow past subsystems to signal future subsystems (using the device's memory for example), super-polynomial privacy amplification by any hashing is impossible. This is in great relevance when considering practical device independent key distribution protocols which assume a super-quantum adversary.

id: 1211.1163
title: Arbitrary quantum control of qubits in the presence of universal noise
authors: Todd J. Green, Jarrah Sastrawan, Hermann Uys, Michael J. Biercuk
comments: To appear in New J. Phys. Expanded to include discussions of limits of analytic approximation, comparison of filter-function with full numerical simulation, and incorporation of explicit forms of higher-order filter functions. Related references at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1163
abstract: In this manuscript we address the problem of deriving \emph{analytic} expressions for calculating universal decoherence-induced errors in qubits undergoing arbitrary, unitary, time-dependent quantum-control protocols. For a qubit undergoing unitary decoherence the evolution of a qubit state in the presence of time-varying semiclassical fields may be treated geometrically. We show that the fidelity of an arbitrary control operation may then be expressed to arbitrary order in terms of experimentally relevant spectral characteristics of the noise and the control over all Cartesian directions and accounting for noise cross-correlations. We formulate \emph{control matrices} in the time domain to capture the effects of piecewise-constant control, and convert them to generalized Fourier-domain filter functions. Such generalized filter functions may therefore be derived for complex temporally modulated control protocols, accounting for susceptibility to rotations of the qubit state vector in three dimensions. Taken together, this framework provides a computationally efficient means to calculate the effects of universal noise on arbitrary quantum control protocols without the need for time-consuming simulations of Bloch vector evolution. As a concrete example, we apply our method to treating the problem of dynamical decoupling incorporating realistic control pulses of arbitrary duration or form, including the replacement of simple $\pi$-pulses with complex dynamically corrected gates.

id: 1211.1179
title: No-go theorems for ¦×-epistemic models based on a continuity assumption
authors: M. K. Patra, S. Pironio, S. Massar
comments: Version 1 contains both theory and an illustrative experiment. Version 2 contains only the theory (the experiment with expanded discussion will be posted separatly at a later date). The main novelty of Version 2 is a detailed comparison in appendix 2 with L. Hardy arXiv:1205.14396. Version 2 is 6 pages of text and 1 figure; v3: minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 090402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1179
abstract: The quantum state \psi is a mathematical object used to determine the probabilities of different outcomes when measuring a physical system. Its fundamental nature has been the subject of discussions since the inception of quantum theory: is it ontic, that is, does it correspond to a real property of the physical system? Or is it epistemic, that is, does it merely represent our knowledge about the system? Assuming a natural continuity assumption and a weak separability assumption, we show here that epistemic interpretations of the quantum state are in contradiction with quantum theory. Our argument is different from the recent proof of Pusey, Barrett, and Rudolph and it already yields a non-trivial constraint on \psi-epistemic models using a single copy of the system in question.

id: 1211.1209
title: Extractable work from ensembles of quantum batteries. Entanglement helps
authors: Robert Alicki, Mark Fannes
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, added reference, misprint corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1209
abstract: Motivated by the recent interest in thermodynamics of micro- and mesoscopic quantum systems we study the maximal amount of work that can be reversibly extracted from a quantum system used to store temporarily energy. Guided by the notion of passivity of a quantum state we show that entangling unitary controls extract in general more work than independent ones. In the limit of large number of copies one can reach the thermodynamical bound given by the variational principle for free energy.

id: 1211.1213
title: Enhancing pseudo-telepathy in the Magic Square game
authors: ?ukasz Pawela, Piotr Gawron, Zbigniew Pucha?a, Jan S?adkowski
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1213
abstract: We study the possibility of reversing an action of a quantum channel. Our principal objective is to find a specific channel that reverses as accurately as possible an action of a given quantum channel. To achieve this goal we use semidefinite programming. We show the benefits of our method using the quantum pseudo-telepathy Magic Square game with noise. Our strategy is to move the pseudo-telepathy region to higher noise values. We show that it is possible to reverse the action of a noise channel using semidefinite programming.

id: 1211.1257
title: Functional Quantum Computing: An Optical Approach
authors: Timothy Rambo, Joseph Altepeter, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Prem Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1257
abstract: A new model of quantum computing has recently been proposed which, in analogy with a classical lambda-calculus, exploits quantum processes which operate on other quantum processes. One such quantum meta-operator takes N unitary transformations as input, coherently permutes their ordering, and outputs a new composite operator which can be applied to a quantum state. Here we propose an optical device which implements this type of coherent operator permutation. This device requires only one physical implementation of each operator to be permuted.

id: 1211.1399
title: Fourier Transform Quantum State Tomography
authors: Mohammadreza Mohammadi, Agata M. Branczyk, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, minor changes from v1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1399
abstract: We propose a technique for performing quantum state tomography of photonic polarization-encoded multi-qubit states. Our method uses a single rotating wave plate, a polarizing beam splitter and two photon-counting detectors per photon mode. As the wave plate rotates, the photon counters measure a pseudo-continuous signal which is then Fourier transformed. The density matrix of the state is reconstructed using the relationship between the Fourier coefficients of the signal and the Stokes' parameters that represent the state. The experimental complexity, i.e. different wave plate rotation frequencies, scales linearly with the number of qubits.

id: 1211.1400
title: Fault-tolerant quantum computation with asymmetric Bacon-Shor codes
authors: Peter Brooks, John Preskill
comments: 25 pages, 16 figures. (v2) Minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032310 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1400
abstract: We develop a scheme for fault-tolerant quantum computation based on asymmetric Bacon-Shor codes, which works effectively against highly biased noise dominated by dephasing. We find the optimal Bacon-Shor block size as a function of the noise strength and the noise bias, and estimate the logical error rate and overhead cost achieved by this optimal code. Our fault-tolerant gadgets, based on gate teleportation, are well suited for hardware platforms with geometrically local gates in two dimensions.

id: 1211.1402
title: Device-independent quantum key distribution secure against adversaries with no long-term quantum memory
authors: Stefano Pironio, Lluis Masanes, Anthony Leverrier, Antonio Acin
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure. v2: minor modifications
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 031007 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1402
abstract: Device-Independent Quantum Key Distribution (DIQKD) is a formalism that supersedes traditional quantum key distribution, as its security does not rely on any detailed modelling of the internal working of the devices. This strong form of security is possible only using devices producing correlations that violate a Bell inequality. Full security proofs of DIQKD have been recently reported, but they tolerate zero or small amounts of noise and are restricted to protocols based on specific Bell inequalities. Here, we provide a security proof of DIQKD that is both more efficient and noise resistant, and also more general as it applies to protocols based on arbitrary Bell inequalities and can be adapted to cover supra-quantum eavesdroppers limited by the no-signalling principle only. It requires, however, the extra assumption that the adversary does not have a long-term quantum memory, a condition that is not a limitation at present since the best existing quantum memories have very short coherence times.

id: 1211.1411
title: Hidden Variable Theories: Arguments for a Paradigm Shift
authors: Louis Vervoort
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1411
abstract: Usually the 'hidden variables' of Bell's theorem are supposed to describe the pair of Bell particles. Here a semantic shift is proposed, namely to attach the hidden variables to a stochastic medium or field in which the particles move. It appears that under certain conditions one of the premises of Bell's theorem, namely 'measurement independence', is not satisfied for such 'background-based' theories, even if these only involve local interactions. Such theories therefore do not fall under the restriction of Bell's no-go theorem. A simple version of such background-based models are Ising models, which we investigate here in the classical and quantum regime. We also propose to test background-based models by a straightforward extension of existing experiments. The present version corrects an error in the preceding version.

id: 1211.1427
title: The information capacity of a single photon
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Joseph F. Fitzsimons, Alexei Gilchrist
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022310 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1427
abstract: Quantum states of light are the obvious choice for communicating quantum information. To date, encoding information into the polarisation states of single photons has been widely used as these states form an natural closed two state qubit. However, photons are able to encode much more -- in principle infinite -- information via the continuous spatio-temporal degrees of freedom. Here we consider the information capacity of an optical quantum channel, such as an optical fibre, where a spectrally encoded single photon is the means of communication. We use the Holevo bound to calculate an upper bound on the channel capacity, and relate this to the spectral encoding basis and the spectral properties of the channel. Further, we derive analytic bounds on the capacity of such channels, and in the case of a symmetric two-state encoding calculate the exact capacity of the corresponding channel.

id: 1211.1531
title: Nonlocal correlations for manifold quantum systems: Entanglement of two-spin states
authors: K. Berrada, A. Mohammadzade, S. Abdel-Khalek, H. Eleuch, S. Salimi
comments: 16 page, 4 figures
journal: Physica E 45, 21-27 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1531
abstract: In this paper, we study the bipartite entanglement of spin coherent states in the case of pure and mixed states. By a proper choice of the subsystem spins, the entanglement for large class of quantum systems is investigated. We generalize the result to the case of bipartite mixed states using a simplified expression of concurrence in Wootters' measure of the bipartite entanglement. It is found that in some cases, the maximal entanglement of mixed states in the context of $su(2)$ algebra can be detected. Our observations may have important implications in exploiting these states in quantum information theory.

id: 1211.1532
title: Prepotential approach to systems with dynamical symmetries
authors: Yan Li, Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen, L. C. Kwek
comments: 14 pages, no fig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1532
abstract: A prepotential approach to constructing the quantum systems with dynamical symmetry is proposed. As applications, we derive generalizations of the hydrogen atom and harmonic oscillator, which can be regarded as the systems with position-dependent mass. They have the symmetries which are similar to the corresponding ones, and can be solved by using the algebraic method.

id: 1211.1574
title: Delayed choice without choice
authors: M. Dugic
comments: (almost) 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1574
abstract: A critical note on some of the existing proposals for performing the "delayed choice" experiment is placed. By abandoning the original idea and intention, some modern theoretical proposals and experimental evidence are simply incorrectly understood/interpreted. In effect, the Complementarity principle remains practically intact.

id: 1211.1584
title: Universal theory of multipartite cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: Moslem Alidoosty Shahraki, Sina Ataollah Khorasani
comments: 21 figures, PACS 42.50.Gy, 42.50.Pq, 05.45.Mt, 42.65.Sf
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1584
abstract: Cavity quantum electrodynamics of multipartite systems is studied in depth, which consist of an arbitrary number of emitters in interaction with an arbitrary number of cavity modes. The governing model is obtained by taking the full field-dipole and dipole-dipole interactions into account, and is solved in the Schr\"odinger picture without assumption of any further approximation. An extensive code is developed which is able to accurately solve the system and track its evolution with high precision in time, while maintaining sufficient degrees of arbitrariness in setting up the initial conditions and interacting partitions. Using this code, we have been able to numerically evaluate various parameters such as probabilities, expectation values (of field and atomic operators), as well as the concurrence as the most rigorously defined measure of entanglement of quantum systems. We present and discuss several examples including a seven-partition system consisting of six quantum dots interacting with one cavity mode. We observe for the first time that the behavior of quantum systems under ultrastrong coupling is significantly different than the weakly and strongly coupled systems, marked by onset of a chaos and abrupt phase changes. We also discuss how to implement spin into the theoretical picture and thus successfully simulate a recently reported spin-entanglement experiment.

id: 1211.1585
title: Quasiprobabilities for Multipartite Quantum Correlations of Light
authors: E. Agudelo, J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 033811 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1585
abstract: Regular quasiprobabilities are introduced for the aim of characterizing quantum correlations of multimode radiation fields. Negativities of these quantum-correlation quasiprobabilities are necessary and sufficient for any quantum correlation encoded in the multimode Glauber-Sudarshan P function. The strength of the method is demonstrated for a two-mode phase randomized squeezed-vacuum state. It has no entanglement, no quantum discord, a positive Wigner function, and a classical reduced single-mode representation. Our method clearly visualizes the quantum correlations of this state.

id: 1211.1586
title: Quantum driving protocols for a two level system: from generalized Landau-Zener sweeps to superadiabatic control
authors: N. Malossi, M. G. Bason, M. Viteau, E. Arimondo, R. Mannella, O. Morsch, D. Ciampini
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1586
abstract: We present experimental results on the preparation of a desired quantum state in a two-level system with the maximum possible fidelity using driving protocols ranging from generalizations of the linear Landau-Zener protocol to transitionless driving protocols that ensure perfect following of the instantaneous adiabatic ground state. We also study the minimum time needed to achieve a target fidelity and explore and compare the robustness of some of the protocols against parameter variations simulating a possible experimental uncertainty. In our experiments, we realize a two-level model system using Bose-Einstein condensates inside optical lattices, but the results of our investigation should hold for any quantum system that can be approximated by a two-level system.

id: 1211.1591
title: Entanglement engineering and topological protection by discrete-time quantum walks
authors: Simon Moulieras, Maciej Lewenstein, Graciana Puentes
comments: 11 Pages, 8 Figures, Invited contribution to J. Phys. B - 20th Anniversary of quantum state engineering special issue
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 104005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1591
abstract: Discrete-time quantum walks (QWs) represent robust and versatile platforms for the controlled engineering of single particle quantum dynamics, and have attracted special attention due to their algorithmic applications in quantum information science. Even in their simplest 1D architectures, they display complex topological phenomena, which can be employed in the systematic study of topological quantum phase transitions [1]. Due to the exponential scaling in the number of resources required, most experimental realizations of QWs up to date have been limited to single particles, with only a few implementations involving correlated quantum pairs. In this article we study applications of quantum walks in the controlled dynamical engineering of entanglement in bipartite bosonic systems. We show that quantum walks can be employed in the transition from mode entanglement, where indistinguishability of the quantum particles plays a key role, to the standard type of entanglement associated with distinguishable particles. We also show that, by carefully tailoring the steps in the QWs, as well as the initial state for the quantum walker, it is possible to preserve the entanglement content by topological protection. The underlying mechanism that allows for the possibility of both entanglement engineering and entanglement protection is the strong "spin-orbit" coupling induced by the QW. We anticipate that the results reported here can be employed for the controlled emulation of quantum correlations in topological phases.

id: 1211.1619
title: N-quantum calculation of the hydrogen atom with one-photon exchange
authors: O.W. Greenberg, Steve Cowen
comments: 25 pages, 4 figures. Updated to include discussion of higher-order corrections and added references
journal: Phys.Rev.A.87.042516 -1, -10 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1619
abstract: The N-quantum approach (NQA) to quantum field theory uses the complete and irreducible set of in or out fields, including in or out fields for bound states, as standard building blocks to construct solutions to quantum field theories. In particular, introducing in (or out) fields for the bound states allows a new way to calculate energy levels and wave functions for the bound states that is both covariant and effectively 3-dimensional. This method is independent of the Bethe-Salpeter equation. In contrast to the Bethe-Salpeter equation, all solutions of the NQA are normalizable and correspond to physical bound states. In this paper we use the NQA in one-loop approximation to calculate states of the relativistic hydrogen atom and analogous two-body systems to illustrate how our new method works. With additional terms in the in field expansion we find systematic corrections beyond the Coulomb interaction.

id: 1211.1701
title: Gaussification through decoherence
authors: Paulina Marian, Iulia Ghiu, Tudor A. Marian
comments: Published version. Comments are welcome
journal: Physical Review A 88, art 012316 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1701
abstract: We investigate the loss of nonclassicality and non-Gaussianity of a single-mode state of the radiation field in contact with a thermal reservoir. The damped density matrix for a Fock-diagonal input is written using the Weyl expansion of the density operator. Analysis of the evolution of the quasiprobability densities reveals the existence of two successive characteristic times of the reservoir which are sufficient to assure the positivity of the Wigner function and, respectively, of the $P$ representation. We examine the time evolution of non-Gaussianity using three recently introduced distance-type measures. They are based on the Hilbert-Schmidt metric, the relative entropy, and the Bures metric. Specifically, for an $M$-photon-added thermal state, we obtain a compact analytic formula of the time-dependent density matrix that is used to evaluate and compare the three non-Gaussianity measures. We find a good consistency of these measures on the sets of damped states. The explicit damped quasiprobability densities are shown to support our general findings regarding the loss of negativities of Wigner and $P$ functions during decoherence. Finally, we point out that Gaussification of the attenuated field mode is accompanied by a nonmonotonic evolution of the von Neumann entropy of its state conditioned by the initial value of the mean photon number.

id: 1211.1705
title: Implementing Quantum Walks Using Orbital Angular Momentum of Classical Light
authors: Sandeep K Goyal, Filippus S Roux, Andrew Forbes, Thomas Konrad
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 263602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1705
abstract: We present an implementation scheme for a quantum walk in the orbital angular momentum space of a laser beam. The scheme makes use of a ring interferometer, containing a quarter-wave plate and a q plate. This setup enables one to perform an arbitrary number of quantum walk steps. In addition, the classical nature of the implementation scheme makes it possible to observe the quantum walk evolution in real time. We use nonquantum entanglement of the laser beam's polarization with its orbital angular momentum to implement the quantum walk.

id: 1211.1711
title: Waveguide-QED-Based Photonic Quantum Computation
authors: Huaixiu Zheng, Daniel J. Gauthier, Harold U. Baranger
comments: Published version, extensively revised main text and supplemental material compared to v1
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 090502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1711
abstract: We propose a new scheme for quantum computation using flying qubits--propagating photons in a one-dimensional waveguide--interacting with matter qubits. Photon-photon interactions are mediated by the coupling to a three- or four-level system, based on which photon-photon \pi-phase gates (Controlled-NOT) can be implemented for universal quantum computation. We show that high gate fidelity is possible given recent dramatic experimental progress in superconducting circuits and photonic-crystal waveguides. The proposed system can be an important building block for future on-chip quantum networks.

id: 1211.1724
title: Coherent feedback that beats all measurement-based feedback protocols
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Xiaoting Wang, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 4 pages, revtex4-1, 1 png figure; v2: new (now optimal) coherent protocol, new author
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 073036 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1724
abstract: We show that when the speed of control is bounded, there is a widely applicable minimal-time control problem for which a coherent feedback protocol is optimal, and is faster than all measurement-based feedback protocols, where the latter are defined in a strict sense. The superiority of the coherent protocol is due to the fact that it can exploit a geodesic path in Hilbert space, a path that measurement-based protocols cannot follow.

id: 1211.1739
title: EPR measurement and the origin of cosmic density fluctuations
authors: Masahiro Morikawa
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1739
abstract: We explore consistent application of quantum mechanics to the objects in the Universe and in laboratories. The measurement dynamics in quantum mechanics is modeled as a physical process of spontaneous symmetry breaking (SSB) which is described by the generalized effective action method. A violation of the Bell inequality is observed in this model and the generation of the density fluctuations in the early Universe is described as the SSB process of the spatially translational symmetry.

id: 1211.1772
title: Work extraction via quantum nondemolition measurements of qubits in cavities: Non-Markovian effects
authors: David Gelbwaser-Klimovsky, Noam Erez, Robert Alicki, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022112 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1772
abstract: We show that frequent nondemolition measurements of a quantum system immersed in a thermal bath allow the extraction of work in a closed cycle from the system-bath interaction (correlation) energy, a hitherto unexploited work resource. It allows for work even if no information is gathered or the bath is at zero temperature, provided the cycle is within the bath memory time. The predicted work resource may be the basis of quantum engines embedded in a bath with long memory time, such as the electromagnetic bath of a high-Q cavity coupled to two-level systems.

id: 1211.1773
title: Elastic enhancement factor as a quantum chaos probe
authors: Yaroslav A. Kharkov, Valentin V. Sokolov
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, The version accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys. Lett B, 718 (2013) 1562-1565
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1773
abstract: Recent development of the resonance scattering theory with a transient from the regular to chaotic internal dynamics inspires renewed interest to the problem of the elastic enhancement phenomenon. We reexamine the question what the experimentally observed value of the elastic enhancement factor can tell us about the character of dynamics of the intermediate system. Noting first a remarkable connection of this factor with the time delays variance in the case of the standard Gaussian ensembles we then prove the universal nature of such a relation. This reduces our problem to that of calculation of the Dyson's binary form factor in the whole transition region. By the example of systems with no time-reversal symmetry we then demonstrate that the enhancement can serve as a measure of the degree of internal chaos.

id: 1211.1779
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox and quantum steering in pulsed optomechanics
authors: Q. Y. He, M. D. Reid
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052121 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1779
abstract: We describe how to generate an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) paradox between a mesoscopic mechanical oscillator and an optical pulse. We find two types of paradox, defined by whether it is the oscillator or the pulse that shows the effect Schrodinger called "steering". Only the oscillator paradox addresses the question of mesoscopic local reality for a massive system. In that case, EPR's "elements of reality" are defined for the oscillator, and it is these elements of reality that are falsified (if quantum mechanics is complete). For this sort of paradox, we show that a thermal barrier exists, meaning that a threshold level of pulse-oscillator interaction is required for a given thermal occupation n_0 of the oscillator. We find there is no equivalent thermal barrier for the entanglement of the pulse with the oscillator, nor for the EPR paradox that addresses the local reality of the optical system. Finally, we examine the possibility of an EPR paradox between two entangled oscillators. Our work highlights the asymmetrical effect of thermal noise on quantum nonlocality.

id: 1211.1791
title: Undoing a quantum measurement
authors: Philipp Schindler, Thomas Monz, Daniel Nigg, Julio T. Barreiro, Esteban A. Martinez, Matthias F. Brandl, Michael Chwalla, Markus Hennrich, Rainer Blatt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1791
abstract: In general, a quantum measurement yields an undetermined answer and alters the system to be consistent with the measurement result. This process maps multiple initial states into a single state and thus cannot be reversed. This has important implications in quantum information processing, where errors can be interpreted as measurements. Therefore, it seems that it is impossible to correct errors in a quantum information processor, but protocols exist that are capable of eliminating them if they affect only part of the system. In this work we present the deterministic reversal of a fully projective measurement on a single particle, enabled by a quantum error-correction protocol that distributes the information over three particles.

id: 1211.1822
title: Unearthing wave-function renormalization effects in the time evolution of a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Paolo Facchi, Saverio Pascazio, Francesco V. Pepe, Ennio Arimondo, Donatella Ciampini, Oliver Morsch
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1201.6286
journal: Phys. Scr. T153 (2013) 014024
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1822
abstract: We study the time evolution of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an accelerated optical lattice. When the condensate has a narrow quasimomentum distribution and the optical lattice is shallow, the survival probability in the ground band exhibits a steplike structure. In this regime we establish a connection between the wave-function renormalization parameter $Z$ and the phenomenon of resonantly enhanced tunneling.

id: 1211.1827
title: A hybrid quantum circuit consisting of a superconducting flux qubit coupled to both a spin ensemble and a transmission-line resonator
authors: Ze-Liang Xiang, Xin-You Lu, Tie-Fu Li, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 144516 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1827
abstract: We propose an experimentally realizable hybrid quantum circuit for achieving a strong coupling between a spin ensemble and a transmission-line resonator via a superconducting flux qubit used as a data bus. The resulting coupling can be used to transfer quantum information between the spin ensemble and the resonator. In particular, in contrast to the direct coupling without a data bus, our approach requires far less spins to achieve a strong coupling between the spin ensemble and the resonator (e.g., three to four orders of magnitude less). This proposed hybrid quantum circuit could enable a long-time quantum memory when storing information in the spin ensemble, and allows the possibility to explore nonlinear effects in the ultrastrong-coupling regime.

id: 1211.1828
title: Aspects of universally valid Heisenberg uncertainty relation
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa, Koichiro Umetsu
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures. To appear in Progress of Theoretical and Experimental Physics
journal: Progress of Theoretical and Experimental Physics 013A03 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1828
abstract: A numerical illustration of a universally valid Heisenberg uncertainty relation, which was proposed recently, is presented by using the experimental data on spin-measurements by J. Erhart, et al.[ Nature Phys. {\bf 8}, 185 (2012)]. This uncertainty relation is closely related to a modified form of the Arthurs-Kelly uncertainty relation which is also tested by the spin-measurements. The universally valid Heisenberg uncertainty relation always holds, but both the modified Arthurs-Kelly uncertainty relation and Heisenberg's error-disturbance relation proposed by Ozawa, which was analyzed in the original experiment, fail in the present context of spin-measurements, and the cause of their failure is identified with the assumptions of unbiased measurement and disturbance. It is also shown that all the universally valid uncertainty relations are derived from Robertson's relation and thus the essence of the uncertainty relation is exhausted by Robertson's relation as is widely accepted.

id: 1211.1886
title: Computable Measures for the Entanglement of Indistinguishable Particles
authors: Fernando Iemini, Reinaldo O. Vianna
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022327 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1886
abstract: We discuss particle entanglement in systems of indistinguishable bosons and fermions, in finite Hilbert spaces, with focus on operational measures of quantum correlations. We show how to use von Neumann entropy, Negativity and entanglement witnesses in these cases, proving interesting relations. We obtain analytic expressions to quantify quantum correlations in homogeneous D-dimensional Hamiltonian models with certain symmetries.

id: 1211.1907
title: Energy dependence of the entanglement entropy of composite boson (quasiboson) systems
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, Yu.A. Mishchenko
comments: 10 pages, 14 figures; v2: introduction, conclusions rewritten, one section (on purity VS energy) and a number of refs. added; v3: minor changes in order to match journal version. Accepted in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 145301 (20pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1907
abstract: Bipartite composite boson (quasiboson) systems, which admit realization in terms of deformed oscillators, were considered in our previous paper from the viewpoint of entanglement characteristics. These characteristics, including entanglement entropy and purity, were expressed through the relevant deformation parameter for different quasibosonic states. On the other hand, it is of interest to present the entanglement entropy and likewise the purity as function of energy for those states. In this work, the corresponding dependencies are found for different states of composite bosons realized by deformed oscillators and, for comparison, also for the hydrogen atom viewed as composite boson. The obtained results are expressed graphically and their implications discussed.

id: 1211.1956
title: Quantum Communications Made Easy: Deterministic Models of Bosonic Channels
authors: Graeme Smith, John A. Smolin
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Nature 504, 263-267 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1956
abstract: Information theory establishes the ultimate limits on performance for noisy communication systems [Shannon48]. An accurate model of a physical communication device must include quantum effects, but typically including these makes the theory intractable. As a result communication capacities are not known, even for transmission between two users connected by an electromagnetic waveguide subject to gaussian noise. Here we present an exactly solvable model of communications with a fully quantum electromagnetic field. This allows us to find explicit expressions for all the point-to-point capacities of a noisy quantum channel, with implications for quantum key distribution, and fiber optical communications. We also develop a theory of quantum communication networks by solving some rudimentary quantum networks for broadcasting and multiple access. When possible, we compare the predictions of our new model with those of the orthodox quantum gaussian model and in all cases we find capacities in agreement to within a constant number of bits. Thus, in the limit of high signal to noise ratios our simple model captures the relevant physics of gaussian models while remaining amenable to detailed analysis,

id: 1211.1994
title: On the Origin of the Quantum Rules for Identical Particles
authors: Klil H. Neori, Philip Goyal
comments: 8 pages, all figures embedded as TikZ. V2 clarified wording from V1 in response to reviewer
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1553 (2013) 220
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1994
abstract: We present a proof of the Symmetrization Postulate for the special case of noninteracting, identical particles. The proof is given in the context of the Feynman formalism of Quantum Mechanics, and builds upon the work of Goyal, Knuth and Skilling (Phys. Rev. A 81, 022109 (2010)), which shows how to derive Feynman's rules from operational assumptions concerning experiments. Our proof is inspired by an attempt to derive this result due to Tikochinsky (Phys. Rev. A 37, 3553 (1988)), but substantially improves upon his argument, by clarifying the nature of the subject matter, by improving notation, and by avoiding strong, abstract assumptions such as analyticity.

id: 1211.2084
title: Distinguishing initial state-vectors from each other in histories formulations and the PBR argument
authors: Petros Wallden
comments: 25 pages, v2 published version
journal: Found. Phys. 43, 1502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2084
abstract: Following the argument of Pusey, Barrett and Rudolph (Nature Phys. 8:476, 2012), new interest has been raised on whether one can interpret state-vectors (pure states) in a statistical way ($\psi$-epistemic theories), or if each of them corresponds to a different ontological entity. Each interpretation of quantum theory assumes different ontology and one could ask if the PBR argument carries over. Here we examine this question for histories formulations in general with particular attention to the co-event formulation. State-vectors appear as the initial state that enters into the quantum measure. While the PBR argument goes through up to a point, the failure to meet some of the assumptions they made does not allow one to reach their conclusion. However, the author believes that the "statistical interpretation" is still impossible for co-events even if this is not proven by the PBR argument.

id: 1211.2098
title: On the Relationship between the Moyal Algebra and the Quantum Operator Algebra of von Neumann
authors: B. J. Hiley
comments: 23 pages. No figures or tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2098
abstract: The primary motivation for Moyal's approach to quantum mechanics was to develop a phase space formalism for quantum phenomena by generalising the techniques of classical probability theory. To this end, Moyal introduced a quantum version of the characteristic function which immediately provides a probability distribution. The approach is sometimes perceived negatively merely as an attempt to return to classical notions, but the mathematics Moyal develops is simply a re-expression of what is at the heart of quantum mechanics, namely the non-commutative algebraic structure first introduced by von Neumann in 1931. In this paper we will establish this relation and show that the "distribution function", F(P,X,t) is simply the quantum mechanical density matrix for a single particle. The coordinates, X and P, are not the coordinates of the particle but the mean co-ordinates of a cell structure (a `blob') in phase space, giving an intrinsically non-local description of each individual particle, which becomes a point in the limit to order $\hbar^2$. We discuss the significance of this non-commutative structure on the symplectic geometry of the phase space for quantum processes.

id: 1211.2101
title: How energy conservation limits our measurements
authors: Miguel Navascues, Sandu Popescu
comments: Better read the 5-page published version first
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 140502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2101
abstract: Observations in Quantum Mechanics are subject to complex restrictions arising from the principle of energy conservation. Determining such restrictions, however, has been so far an elusive task, and only partial results are known. In this paper we discuss how constraints on the energy spectrum of a measurement device translate into limitations on the measurements which we can effect on a target system with non-trivial energy operator. We provide efficient algorithms to characterize such limitations and we quantify them exactly when the target is a two-level quantum system. Our work thus identifies the boundaries between what is possible or impossible to measure, i.e., between what we can see or not, when energy conservation is at stake.

id: 1211.2107
title: Process, Distinction, Groupoids and Clifford Algebras: an Alternative View of the Quantum Formalism
authors: B. J. Hiley
comments: 55 pages. 10 figures
journal: Lecture Notes in Physics, vol. 813, pp. 705-750, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2107
abstract: In this paper we start from a basic notion of process, which we structure into two groupoids, one orthogonal and one symplectic. By introducing additional structure, we convert these groupoids into orthogonal and symplectic Clifford algebras respectively. We show how the orthogonal Clifford algebra, which include the Schr\"oodinger, Pauli and Dirac formalisms, describe the classical light-cone structure of space-time, as well as providing a basis for the description of quantum phenomena. By constructing an orthogonal Clifford bundle with a Dirac connection, we make contact with quantum mechanics through the Bohm formalism which emerges quite naturally from the connection, showing that it is a structural feature of the mathematics. We then generalise the approach to include the symplectic Clifford algebra, which leads us to a non-commutative geometry with projections onto shadow manifolds. These shadow manifolds are none other than examples of the phase space constructed by Bohm. We also argue that this provides us with a mathematical structure that fits the implicate-explicate order proposed by Bohm.

id: 1211.2111
title: Quantum optics experiments to the International Space Station ISS: a proposal
authors: Thomas Scheidl, Eric Wille, Rupert Ursin
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 043008 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2111
abstract: We propose performing quantum optics experiments in an ground-to-space scenario using the International Space Station, which is equipped with a glass viewing window and a photographer's lens mounted on a motorized camera pod. A dedicated small add-on module with single-photon detection, time-tagging and classical communication capabilities would enable us to perform the first-ever quantum optics experiments in space. We present preliminary design concepts for the ground and flight segments and study the feasibility of the intended mission scenario.

id: 1211.2123
title: Estimation of classical parameters via continuous probing of complementary quantum observables
authors: Antonio Negretti, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures (updated affiliation)
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 125002 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2123
abstract: We discuss how continuous probing of a quantum system allows estimation of unknown classical parameters embodied in the Hamiltonian of the system. We generalize the stochastic master equation associated with continuous observation processes to a Bayesian filter equation for the probability distribution of the desired parameters, and we illustrate its application by estimating the direction of a magnetic field. In our example, the field causes a ground state spin precession in a two-level atom which is detected by the polarization rotation of off-resonant optical probes, interacting with the atomic spin components.

id: 1211.2173
title: Simulating continuous quantum systems by mean field fluctuations
authors: Zoltan Kadar, Michael Keyl, Robert Matjeschk, Geza Toth, Zoltan Zimboras
comments: 29 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2173
abstract: In this paper we are discussing the question how a continuous quantum system can be simulated by mean field fluctuations of a finite number of qubits. On the kinematical side this leads to a convergence result which states that appropriately chosen fluctuation operators converge in a certain weak sense (i.e. we are comparing expectation values) to canonical position and momentum Q, P of one-degree of freedom, continuous quantum system. This result is substantially stronger than existing methods which rely either on central limit theorem arguments (and are therefore restricted to the Gaussian world) or are valid only if the states of the ensembles are close to the "fully polarized" state. Dynamically this relationship keeps perfectly intact (at least for small times) as long as the continuous system evolves according to a quadratic Hamiltonian. In other words we can approximate the corresponding (Heisenberg picture) time evolution of the canonical operators Q, P up to arbitrary accuracy by the appropriately chosen time evolution of fluctuation operators of the finite systems.

id: 1211.2175
title: Improving quantum gate fidelities by using a qubit to measure microwave pulse distortions
authors: Simon Gustavsson, Olger Zwier, Jonas Bylander, Fei Yan, Fumiki Yoshihara, Yasunobu Nakamura, Terry P. Orlando, William D. Oliver
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2175
abstract: We present a new method for determining pulse imperfections and improving the single-gate fidelity in a superconducting qubit. By applying consecutive positive and negative $\pi$ pulses, we amplify the qubit evolution due to microwave pulse distortion, which causes the qubit state to rotate around an axis perpendicular to the intended rotation axis. Measuring these rotations as a function of pulse period allows us to reconstruct the shape of the microwave pulse arriving at the sample. Using the extracted response to predistort the input signal, we are able to improve the pulse shapes and to reach an average single-qubit gate fidelity higher than 99.8%.

id: 1211.2185
title: Quantum optical reconstruction scheme using weak values
authors: Joachim Fischbach, Matthias Freyberger
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A (this http URL)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052110 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2185
abstract: A quantum state contains the maximal amount of information available for a given quantum system. In this paper we use weak-value expressions to reconstruct quantum states of continuous-variable systems in the quantum optical domain. The role played by postselecting measured data will be particularly emphasized in the proposed setup, which is based on an interferometer just using simple homodyne detection.

id: 1211.2217
title: Topological quantum computing with a very noisy network and local error rates approaching one percent
authors: Naomi H. Nickerson, Ying Li, Simon C. Benjamin
comments: Published paper together with Sup. Info in one document
journal: Nature Communications 4, Article 1756 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2217
abstract: A scalable quantum computer could be built by networking together many simple processor cells, thus avoiding the need to create a single complex structure. The difficulty is that realistic quantum links are very error prone. A solution is for cells to repeatedly communicate with each other and so 'purify' any imperfections; however prior studies suggest that the cells themselves must then have prohibitively low internal error rates. Here we describe a method by which even error-prone cells can perform purification: groups of cells generate shared resource states, which then enable stabilization of topologically encoded data. Given a realistically noisy network (>=10% error rate) we find that our protocol can succeed provided that intra-cell error rates for initialisation, state manipulation and measurement are below 0.82%. This level of fidelity is already achievable in several laboratory systems.

id: 1211.2226
title: A Dynamic Systems Approach to Fermions and Their Relation to Spins
authors: Zolt¨¢n Zimbor¨¢s, Robert Zeier, Michael Keyl, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen
comments: v2 and v3: additional results, typos corrected; v4: major revision
journal: EPJ Quantum Technology 2014 1:11
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2226
abstract: Dynamic properties of fermionic systems, like contollability, reachability, and simulability, are investigated in a general Lie-theoretical frame for quantum systems theory. Observing the parity superselection rule, we treat the fully controllable and quasifree cases, as well as various translation-invariant and particle-number conserving cases. We determine the respective dynamic system Lie algebras to express reachable sets of pure (and mixed) states by explicit orbit manifolds.

id: 1211.2228
title: Observation of quantum state collapse and revival due to the single-photon Kerr effect
authors: Gerhard Kirchmair, Brian Vlastakis, Zaki Leghtas, Simon E. Nigg, Hanhee Paik, Eran Ginossar, Mazyar Mirrahimi, Luigi Frunzio, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, 5 pages supplementary Material, 3 figures
journal: Nature 495, 205 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2228
abstract: Photons are ideal carriers for quantum information as they can have a long coherence time and can be transmitted over long distances. These properties are a consequence of their weak interactions within a nearly linear medium. To create and manipulate nonclassical states of light, however, one requires a strong, nonlinear interaction at the single photon level. One approach to generate suitable interactions is to couple photons to atoms, as in the strong coupling regime of cavity QED systems. In these systems, however, one only indirectly controls the quantum state of the light by manipulating the atoms. A direct photon-photon interaction occurs in so-called Kerr media, which typically induce only weak nonlinearity at the cost of significant loss. So far, it has not been possible to reach the single-photon Kerr regime, where the interaction strength between individual photons exceeds the loss rate. Here, using a 3D circuit QED architecture, we engineer an artificial Kerr medium which enters this regime and allows the observation of new quantum effects. We realize a Gedankenexperiment proposed by Yurke and Stoler, in which the collapse and revival of a coherent state can be observed. This time evolution is a consequence of the quantization of the light field in the cavity and the nonlinear interaction between individual photons. During this evolution non-classical superpositions of coherent states, i.e. multi-component Schroedinger cat states, are formed. We visualize this evolution by measuring the Husimi Q-function and confirm the non-classical properties of these transient states by Wigner tomography. The single-photon Kerr effect could be employed in QND measurement of photons, single photon generation, autonomous quantum feedback schemes and quantum logic operations.

id: 1211.2241
title: A cold-atom quantum simulator for SU(2) Yang-Mills lattice gauge theory
authors: Erez Zohar, J. Ignacio Cirac, Benni Reznik
comments: Including supplemental material. Second version: references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 125304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2241
abstract: Non-abelian gauge theories play an important role in the standard model of particle physics, and unfold a partially unexplored world of exciting physical phenomena. In this letter, we suggest a realization of a non-abelian lattice gauge theory - SU(2) Yang-Mills in 1+1 dimensions, using ultracold atoms. Remarkably, and in contrast to previous proposals, in our model gauge invariance is a direct consequence of angular momentum conservation and thus is fundamental and robust. Our proposal may serve as well as a starting point for higher dimensional realizations.

id: 1211.2248
title: Power law scaling for the adiabatic algorithm for search engine ranking
authors: Adam Frees, John King Gamble, Kenneth Rudinger, Eric Bach, Mark Friesen, Robert Joynt, S. N. Coppersmith
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2248
abstract: An important method for search engine result ranking works by finding the principal eigenvector of the "Google matrix." Recently, a quantum algorithm for preparing this eigenvector and evidence of an exponential speedup for some scale-free networks were presented. Here, we show that the run-time depends on features of the graphs other than the degree distribution, and can be altered sufficiently to rule out a general exponential speedup. For a sample of graphs with degree distributions that more closely resemble the Web than in previous work, the proposed algorithm for eigenvector preparation does not appear to run exponentially faster than the classical case.

id: 1211.2306
title: Constructive entanglement test from triangle inequality
authors: ?ukasz Rudnicki, Zbigniew Pucha?a, Pawe? Horodecki, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2306
abstract: We derive a simple lower bound on the geometric measure of entanglement for mixed quantum states in the case of a general multipartite system. The main ingredient of the presented derivation is the triangle inequality applied to the root infidelity distance in the space of density matrices. The obtained bound leads to entanglement criteria with a straightforward interpretation. Proposed criteria provide an experimentally accessible, powerful entanglement test.

id: 1211.2328
title: Unitary Invariants and Classification of Four-Qubit States via Negativity Fonts
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: 12 pages, revtex, Eq. 26 and other Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022335 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2328
abstract: Local unitary invariance and the notion of negativity fonts are used as the principle tools to construct four qubit invariants of degree 8, 12, and 24. A degree 8 polynomial invariant that is non-zero on pure four qubit states with four-body correlations and zero on all other states, is identified. Classification of four qubit states into seven major classes, using criterion based on the nature of correlations, is discussed.

id: 1211.2357
title: Robust weak-measurement protocol for Bohmian velocities
authors: F. L. Traversa, G. Albareda, M. Di Ventra, X. Oriols
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 87, p. 052124, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2357
abstract: We present a protocol for measuring Bohmian - or the mathematically equivalent hydrodynamic - velocities based on an ensemble of two position measurements, defined from a Positive Operator Valued Measure, separated by a finite time interval. The protocol is very accurate and robust as long as the first measurement uncertainty divided by the finite time interval between measurements is much larger than the Bohmian velocity, and the system evolves under flat potential between measurements. The difference between the Bohmian velocity of the unperturbed state and the measured one is predicted to be much smaller than 1% in a large range of parameters. Counter-intuitively, the measured velocity is that at the final time and not a time-averaged value between measurements.

id: 1211.2380
title: Improving teleportation fidelity in structured reservoirs
authors: Yu-Xia Xie, Xiao-Qiang Xi
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, Comments are welcome. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1208.1655 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2380
abstract: Seeking flexible methods to control quantum teleportation in open systems is an important task of quantum communication. In this paper, we study how the super-Ohmic, Ohmic and sub-Ohmic reservoirs affect teleportation of a general one-qubit state. The results revealed that the structures of the reservoirs play a decisive role on quality of teleportation. Particularly, the fidelity of teleportation may be improved by the strong backaction of the non-Markovian memory effects of the reservoir. The physical mechanism responsible for this improvement are determined.

id: 1211.2424
title: Determination of Resonances by the Optimized Spectral Approach
authors: Arkadiusz Kuro?, Przemys?aw Ko?cik, Anna Okopi¨½ska
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures, 8 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2424
abstract: The Rayleigh-Ritz procedure for determining bound-states of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation relies on spectral representation of the solution as a linear combination of the basis functions. Several possible extensions of the method to resonance states have been considered in the literature. Here we propose the application of the optimized Rayleigh-Ritz method to this end. The method uses a basis of the functions containing adjustable nonlinear parameters, the values of which are fixed so as to make the trace of the variational matrix stationary. Generalization to resonances proceeds by allowing the parameters to be complex numbers. Using various basis sets, we demonstrate that the optimized Rayleigh-Ritz scheme with complex parameters provides an effective algorithm for the determination of both the energy and lifetime of the resonant states for various one-dimensional and spherically symmetric potentials. The method is computationally inexpensive since it does not require iterations or predetermined initial values. The convergence rate compares favorably to other approaches.

id: 1211.2479
title: The Dirac Quantum Automaton: a preview
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: Work presented at the conference "Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations-6 on June 12th 2012 at Linnaeus University, Vaxjo, Sweden. [10 pages, 2 eps figures]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2479
abstract: Quantum Information and the new informational paradigm are entering the domain of quantum field theory and gravity, suggesting the quantum automata framework. The quantum automaton is the minimal-assumption extension to the Planck and ultrarelativistic scales of quantum field theory. It can describe localized states and measurements, which are unmanageable by quantum field theory. The automaton theory is a very promising framework for quantum gravity, since it is quantum ab-initio, with relativistic covariance as emergent and not assumed a priori, it is free from all the problems arising from the continuum, it doesn't suffer violations of causality, and has no divergences. It is the natural scenario to accommodate the quantum holographic principle. Lorentz covariance and all other symmetries are violated in the ultrarelativistic Planckian regime, but are perfectly recovered at the Fermi-scale. In the present report, after briefly reviewing the fundamental principles at the basis of the quantum cellular automata extension of quantum field theory, I will present a preview of recent results on the Fermi scale limit [1] and on the Dirac automaton in two space-dimensions [2]. The automaton in three dimensions is under way.

id: 1211.2485
title: Statistics of nondemolition weak measurement
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo, Jos¨¦ Carlos Egues
comments: 6 pages, 2 pages-appendix, 3 figures. Comments and suggestions very welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2485
abstract: A measurement consists in coupling a system to a probe and reading the output of the probe to gather information about the system. The weaker the coupling, the smaller the back-action on the system, but also the less information conveyed. If the system undergoes a second measurement, the statistics of the first output can be conditioned on the value of the second one. This procedure is known as postselection. A postselected weak measurement of an observable can give a large average output of the probe when the postselected state is nearly orthogonal to the initial state of the system. This large value is an interference effect in the readout of the probe, which is initially in a coherent superposition of readout states (also known as pointer states). Usually, the weak interaction between system and probe is considered instantaneous, so that the dynamics of the probe can be neglected. However, for a weak measurement in solid-state devices, an interaction of finite duration is likely needed. Here, we show how this finite duration generates a contribution of the dynamical phase to the readout statistics. Furthermore, we derive interpolation formulas that are able to describe the statistics of the weak measurement for the whole range of pre- and postselected states. Phase-space averages appear in the expansion, suggesting an interpretation in terms of non-positive probabilities. Decoherence in the probe is also accounted for and it is pointed out the existence of a regime of intermediate coupling strength in which coherent oscillations can be observed in the probability of the readout.

id: 1211.2490
title: Robustness of System-Filter Separation for the Feedback Control of a Quantum Harmonic Oscillator Undergoing Continuous Position Measurement
authors: Stuart S. Szigeti, Sarah J. Adlong, Michael R. Hush, Andre R. R. Carvalho, Joseph J. Hope
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013626 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2490
abstract: We consider the effects of experimental imperfections on the problem of estimation-based feedback control of a trapped particle under continuous position measurement. These limitations violate the assumption that the estimator (i.e. filter) accurately models the underlying system, thus requiring a separate analysis of the system and filter dynamics. We quantify the parameter regimes for stable cooling, and show that the control scheme is robust to detector inefficiency, time delay, technical noise, and miscalibrated parameters. We apply these results to the specific context of a weakly interacting Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). Given that this system has previously been shown to be less stable than a feedback-cooled BEC with strong interatomic interactions, this result shows that reasonable experimental imperfections do not limit the feasibility of cooling a BEC by continuous measurement and feedback.

id: 1211.2491
title: Quantum Dissonance Is Rejected in an Overlap Measurement Scheme
authors: Chang-shui Yu, Jun Zhang, Heng Fan
comments: 5pages and 3 figures,To appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2491
abstract: The overlap measurement scheme accomplishes to evaluate the overlap of two input quantum states by only measuring an introduced auxiliary qubit, irrespective of the complexity of the two input states. We find a counterintuitive phenomenon that no quantum dissonance can be found, even though the auxiliary qubit might be entangled, classically correlated or even uncorrelated with the two input states based on different types of input states. In principle, this provides an opposite but supplementary example to the remarkable algorithm of the deterministic quantum computation with one qubit in which no entanglement is present. Finally, we consider a simple overlap measurement model to demonstrate the continuous change (including potential sudden death of quantum discord) with the input states from entangled to product states by only adjusting some simple initial parameters.

id: 1211.2518
title: Quantum violation of entropic non-contextual inequality in four-dimension
authors: A. K. Pan, M. Sumanth, P. K. Panigrahi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figs; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 87,014104(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2518
abstract: Using joint Shannon entropy, we propose an inequality for a four-level system, which is satisfied in any non-contextual realist hidden variable model. We show that this entropic inequality is violated by quantum mechanics for a range of entangled, as well as product states. Our inequality can be experimentally tested using the existing technology.

id: 1211.2549
title: Quantum brachistochrone problem for two spins-1/2 with anisotropic Heisenberg interaction
authors: A. R. Kuzmak, V. M. Tkachuk
comments: 17 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 155305 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2549
abstract: We study the quantum brachistochrone evolution for a system of two spins-$\frac{1}{2}$ described by an anisotropic Heisenberg Hamiltonian without $zx$, $zy$ interacting couplings in magnetic field directed along the z-axis. This Hamiltonian realizes quantum evolution in two subspaces spanned by $\|\uparrow\uparrow\rangle$, $\|\downarrow\downarrow\rangle$ and $\|\uparrow\downarrow\rangle$, $\|\downarrow\uparrow\rangle$ separately and allows to consider the brachistochrone problem on each subspace separately. Using the evolution operator for this Hamiltonian we generate quantum gates, namely an entangler gate, SWAP gate, iSWAP gate et al.

id: 1211.2594
title: Nonclassical States of Light and Mechanics
authors: Klemens Hammerer, Claudiu Genes, David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi, Gerard Milburn, Christoph Simon, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 31 page review paper; to be pulished as a chapter in the forthcoming Springer textbook "Cavity Optomechanics", edited by M. Aspelmeyer, T. Kippenberg, and F. Marquardt. Comments are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2594
abstract: This book chapter reports on theoretical protocols for generating nonclassical states of light and mechanics. Nonclassical states are understood as squeezed states, entangled states or states with negative Wigner function, and the nonclassicality can refer either to light, to mechanics, or to both, light and mechanics. In all protocols nonclassicallity arises from a strong optomechanical coupling. Some protocols rely in addition on homodyne detection or photon counting of light.

id: 1211.2596
title: Preferred states of the apparatus
authors: Anu Venugopalan
comments: 15 pages
journal: Pramana-Journal of Physics, Vol 78(2) , 2012 , pp 175-186
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2596
abstract: A simple one dimensional model for the system-apparatus interaction is analyzed. The system is a spin-1/2 particle, and its position and momentum degrees constitutes the apparatus. An analysis involving only unitary Schrodinger dynamics illustrates the nature of the correlations established in the system-apparatus entangled state. It is shown that even in the absence of any environment-induced decoherence, or any other measurement model, certain initial states of the apparatus - like localized Gaussian wavepackets - are preferred over others, in terms of the establishment of measurementlike one-to-one correlations in the pure system-apparatus entangled state.

id: 1211.2683
title: AC-driven Quantum Phase Transition in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Model
authors: G. Engelhardt, V. M. Bastidas, C. Emary, T. Brandes
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. This version contains corrected typos, new references, new figures, and a new appendix. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 052110 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2683
abstract: We establish a set of nonequilibrium quantum phase transitions in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model under monochromatic modulation of the inter-particle interaction. We show that the external driving induces a rich phase diagram that characterizes the multistability in the system. Interestingly, the number of stable configurations can be tuned by increasing the amplitude of the driving field. Furthermore, by studying the quantum evolution, we demonstrate that the system exhibits a set of quantum phases that correspond to dynamically stabilized states.

id: 1211.2733
title: A comprehensive design and performance analysis of LEO satellite quantum communication
authors: J.-P. Bourgoin, E. Meyer-Scott, B. L. Higgins, B. Helou, C. Erven, H. Huebel, B. Kumar, D. Hudson, I. D'Souza, R. Girard, R. Laflamme, T. Jennewein
comments: 31 pages, 18 figures, submitted to NJP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2733
abstract: Optical quantum communication utilizing satellite platforms has the potential to extend the reach of quantum key distribution (QKD) from terrestrial limits of ~200 km to global scales. We have developed a thorough numerical simulation using realistic simulated orbits and incorporating the effects of pointing error, diffraction, atmosphere and telescope design, to obtain estimates of the loss and background noise which a satellite-based system would experience. Combining with quantum optics simulations of sources and detection, we determine the length of secure key for QKD, as well as entanglement visibility and achievable distances for fundamental experiments. We analyze the performance of a low Earth orbit (LEO) satellite for downlink and uplink scenarios of the quantum optical signals. We argue that the advantages of locating the quantum source on the ground justify a greater scientific interest in an uplink as compared to a downlink. An uplink with a ground transmitter of at least 25 cm diameter and a 30 cm receiver telescope on the satellite could be used to successfully perform QKD multiple times per week with either an entangled photon source or with a weak coherent pulse source, as well as perform long-distance Bell tests and quantum teleportation. Our model helps to resolve important design considerations such as operating wavelength, type and specifications of sources and detectors, telescope designs, specific orbits and ground station locations, in view of anticipated overall system performance.

id: 1211.2740
title: Quantization and Renormalization and the Casimir Energy of a Scalar Field Interacting with a Rotating Ring
authors: Martin Schaden
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2740
abstract: Effects due to vacuum fluctuations in a semi-classical model of a massless scalar field interacting with a rotating ring are investigated by introducing a collective coordinate for the motion of the background potential. The model is solved for a repulsive periodic $\delta$-distribution background of arbitrary strength. The Casimir energy of this system is calculated in the co-rotating and, by Legendre transformation, in the stationary laboratory frame. The zero-point contribution to the angular momentum in this model is bounded below by $|\ell_{ZP}|\leq\hbar/24$ and the ground state of the entire system thus generally is non-rotating with a positive moment of inertia that decreases only slightly with increasing angular rotation frequency. There is no transfer between the zero-point and classical contributions to the total angular momentum and energy of this system at zero temperature.

id: 1211.2749
title: Dressed-State Polarization Transfer between Bright & Dark Spins in Diamond
authors: Chinmay Belthangady, N. Bar-Gill, L. M. Pham, K. Arai, D. Le Sage, P. Cappellaro, R. L. Walsworth
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2749
abstract: Under ambient conditions, spin impurities in solid-state systems are found in thermally-mixed states and are optically "dark", i.e., the spin states cannot be optically controlled. Nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond are an exception in that the electronic spin states are "bright", i.e., they can be polarized by optical pumping, coherently manipulated with spin-resonance techniques, and read out optically, all at room temperature. Here we demonstrate a dressed-state, double-resonance scheme to transfer polarization from bright NV electronic spins to dark substitutional-Nitrogen (P1) electronic spins in diamond. This polarization-transfer mechanism could be used to cool a mesoscopic bath of dark spins to near-zero temperature, thus providing a resource for quantum information and sensing, and aiding studies of quantum effects in many-body spin systems.

id: 1211.2775
title: Nonlinear effects of atomic collisions on the optomechanical properties of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical cavity
authors: A. Dalafi, M. H. Naderi, M. Soltanolkotabi, Sh. Barzanjeh
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1004.1813 by other authors
journal: Physical Review A 87, 013417 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2775
abstract: In this paper, we have investigated theoretically the influence of atomic collisions on the behaviour of a one-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensate inside a driven optical cavity. We develop the discrete-mode approximation for the condensate taking into account the interband transitions due to the s-wave scattering interaction. We show that in the Bogoliubov approximation the atom-atom interaction shifts the energies of the excited modes and also plays the role of an optical parametric amplifier for the Bogoliubov side mode which can affect its normal-mode splitting behaviour. On the other hand due to the atomic collisions the resonance frequency of the cavity is shifted which leads to the decrease of the number of cavity photons and the depletion of the Bogoliubov mode. Besides, it reduces the effective atom-photon coupling parameter which consequently leads to the decrease of the entanglement between the Bogoliubov mode and the optical field.

id: 1211.2784
title: Toward Exact 2 x 2 Hilbert-Schmidt Determinantal Probability Distributions via Mellin Transforms and Other Approaches
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures (five of them, Mathematica output)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2784
abstract: We attempt to construct the exact univariate probability distributions for 2 x 2 quantum systems that yield the (balanced) univariate Hilbert-Schmidt determinantal moments <(|rho| |rho^{PT}|)^n>, obtained by Slater and Dunkl (J. Phys. A, 45, 095305 [2012]). To begin, we follow--to the extent possible--the Mellin transform-based approach of Penson and Zyczkowski in their study of Fuss-Catalan and Raney distributions (Phys. Rev. E, 83, 061118 [2011]). Further, we approximate the y-intercepts (separability/entanglement boundaries)--at which |rho^{PT}|=0-- of the associated probability distributions based on the (balanced) moments, as well as the previously reported unbalanced determinantal moments <|rho^{PT}|^n>, as a function of the seventy-two values of the Dyson-index-like parameter alpha = 1/2 (rebits), 1 (qubits),...,2 (quaterbits),...35.

id: 1211.2842
title: Phonon mediated quantum spin simulator employing a planar ionic crystal in a Penning trap
authors: C.-C. Joseph Wang, Adam C. Keith, J. K. Freericks
comments: 20 pages, 17 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 013422(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2842
abstract: We derive the normal modes for a rotating Coulomb ion crystal in a Penning trap, quantize the motional degrees of freedom, and illustrate how they can by driven by a spin-dependent optical dipole force to create a quantum spin simulator on a triangular lattice with hundreds of spins. The analysis for the axial modes (oscillations perpendicular to the two-dimensional crystal plane) follow a standard normal-mode analysis, while the remaining planar modes are more complicated to analyze because they have velocity-dependent forces in the rotating frame. After quantizing the normal modes into phonons, we illustrate some of the different spin-spin interactions that can be generated by entangling the motional degrees of freedom with the spin degrees of freedom via a spin-dependent optical dipole force. In addition to the well-known power-law dependence of the spin-spin interactions when driving the axial modes blue of phonon band, we notice certain parameter regimes in which the level of frustration between the spins can be engineered by driving the axial or planar phonon modes at different energies. These systems may allow for the analog simulation of quantum spin glasses with large numbers of spins.

id: 1211.2870
title: Quantum back-action in spinor condensate magnetometry
authors: S. K. Steinke, S. Singh, P. Meystre, K. C. Schwab, M. Vengalattore
comments: 4 pages + references, 2 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2870
abstract: We provide a theoretical treatment of the quantum backaction of Larmor frequency measurements on a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate by an off-resonant light field. Two main results are presented; the first is a "quantum jump" operator description that reflects the abrupt change in the spin state of the atoms when a single photon is counted at a photodiode. The second is the derivation of a conditional stochastic master equation relating the evolution of the condensate density matrix to the measurement record. We comment on applications of this formalism to metrology and many-body studies.

id: 1211.2880
title: Characterizing And Exploiting Hybrid Entanglement
authors: Karsten Kreis
comments: Diploma thesis, supervised by Dr. Peter van Loock, MPL Erlangen, February 2011, 139 pages, related publication: 10.1103/PhysRevA.85.032307 (arXiv:1111.0478v2 [quant-ph])
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2880
abstract: Quantum information theory is a very young area of research offering a lot of challenging open questions to be tackled by ambitious upcoming physicists. One such problem is addressed in this thesis. Recently, several protocols have emerged which exploit both continuous variables and discrete variables. On the one hand, outperforming many of the established pure continuous variable or discrete variable schemes, these hybrid approaches offer new opportunities. However, on the other hand, they also lead to new, intricate, as yet uninvestigated, phenomena. An important ingredient of several of these hybrid protocols is a new kind of entanglement: The hybrid entanglement between continuous variable and discrete variable quantum systems, which is studied in detail in this work. An exhaustive analysis of this kind of entanglement is performed, where the focus is on bipartite entanglement. Nevertheless, also issues regarding multipartite hybrid entanglement are briefly discussed. The quintessence of this thesis is a new classification scheme which distinguishes between effective discrete variable hybrid entanglement and so-called true hybrid entanglement. However, along the way, also other questions are addressed, which have emerged during the studies. For example, entanglement witnessing is discussed not only for hybrid entangled states, but also for fully continuous variable two-mode Schroedinger cat states. Furthermore, subtleties regarding entanglement witnessing in a certain kind of mixed states are examined. Not only theoretical classification and analysis of hybrid entangled states are discussed, but also their generation is presented and a few applications are demonstrated.

id: 1211.2885
title: A monolithically integrated polarization entangled photon pair source on a silicon chip
authors: Nobuyuki Matsuda, Hanna Le Jeannic, Hiroshi Fukuda, Tai Tsuchizawa, William John Munro, Kaoru Shimizu, Koji Yamada, Yasuhiro Tokura, Hiroki Takesue
comments: 
journal: Sci. Rep. 2, 817 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2885
abstract: Integrated photonic circuits are one of the most promising platforms for large-scale photonic quantum information systems due to their small physical size and stable interferometers with near-perfect lateral-mode overlaps. Since many quantum information protocols are based on qubits defined by the polarization of photons, we must develop integrated building blocks to generate, manipulate, and measure the polarization-encoded quantum state on a chip. The generation unit is particularly important. Here we show the first integrated polarization-entangled photon pair source on a chip. We have implemented the source as a simple and stable silicon-on-insulator photonic circuit that generates an entangled state with 91 \pm 2% fidelity. The source is equipped with versatile interfaces for silica-on-silicon or other types of waveguide platforms that accommodate the polarization manipulation and projection devices as well as pump light sources. Therefore, we are ready for the full-scale implementation of photonic quantum information systems on a chip.

id: 1211.2892
title: Quantum teleportation between remote atomic-ensemble quantum memories
authors: Xiao-Hui Bao, Xiao-Fan Xu, Che-Ming Li, Zhen-Sheng Yuan, Chao-Yang Lu, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: PNAS published online this http URL . For a popular summary of the work for general audiences, see highlight this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2892
abstract: Quantum teleportation and quantum memory are two crucial elements for large-scale quantum networks. With the help of prior distributed entanglement as a "quantum channel", quantum teleportation provides an intriguing means to faithfully transfer quantum states among distant locations without actual transmission of the physical carriers. Quantum memory enables controlled storage and retrieval of fast-flying photonic quantum bits with stationary matter systems, which is essential to achieve the scalability required for large-scale quantum networks. Combining these two capabilities, here we realize quantum teleportation between two remote atomic-ensemble quantum memory nodes, each composed of 100 million rubidium atoms and connected by a 150-meter optical fiber. The spinwave state of one atomic ensemble is mapped to a propagating photon, and subjected to Bell-state measurements with another single photon that is entangled with the spinwave state of the other ensemble. Two-photon detection events herald the success of teleportation with an average fidelity of 88(7)%. Besides its fundamental interest as the first teleportation between two remote macroscopic objects, our technique may be useful for quantum information transfer between different nodes in quantum networks and distributed quantum computing.

id: 1211.2898
title: Non-relativistic Bremsstrahlung in QED: Hamiltonian vs. Path Integral Approach
authors: A. Jahan
comments: 6 pages, revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2898
abstract: An alternative derivation of the radiation intensity in non-relativistic bremsstrahlung is provided utilizing the path integral formalism. By integrating out the gauge field, one obtains the effective action which it's imaginary part is interpreted as the rate of photon production during the collision.

id: 1211.2902
title: Accurate phase measurement with classical light
authors: Sabine W?lk, Wenchao Ge, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053833 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2902
abstract: In this paper we investigate whether it is in general possible to substitute maximally path-entangled states, namely NOON-states by classical light in a Doppleron-type resonant multiphoton detection processes by studying adaptive phase measurement with classical light. We show that multiphoton detection probability using classical light coincides with that of NOON-states and the multiphoton absorbtion rate is not hindered by the spatially unconstrained photons of the classical light in our scheme. We prove that the optimal phase variance with classical light can be achieved and scales the same as that using NOON-states.

id: 1211.2938
title: Thermal Rectification in the Nonequilibrium Quantum-Dot-System
authors: T Chen, X.B. Wang
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2938
abstract: Quantum thermal transport in two-quantum-dot system with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction (DM interaction) has been studied. The sign of thermal rectification can be controlled through changing the energy splitting or the DM interaction strength. The anisotropic term in the system can also affect the sign of rectification. Compared with other proposals [Phys. Rev. B 80, 172301 (2009)], our model can offer larger rectification efficiency and show the potential application in designing the polarity-controllable thermal diode with a small size system (N=2). Moreover, quantum correlations of two-quantum-dots are investigated. We find that almost perfect quantum correlations can be obtained in the large temperature bias region, and quantum entanglement is more sensitive to the change of the DM interaction strength than quantum discord.

id: 1211.2959
title: Universality in tightly bound 3-boson systems
authors: Yanzhang He, Yizhong Fang, Chengguang Bao
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2959
abstract: The effects of two distinct operations of the elements of the symmetry groups of a Hamiltonian on a quantum state might be equivalent in some specific zones of coordinate space. Making use of the matrix representations of the groups, the equivalence leads to a set of homogeneous linear equations imposing on the wave functions. When the matrix of the equations is non-degenerate, the wave functions will appear as nodal surfaces in these zones. Therefore, the equivalence leads to the existence of inherent nodal structure in the quantum states. In this paper, trapped 3-boson systems with different types of interactions are studied. The structures of the tightly bound eigenstates have been analyzed systematically. The emphasis is placed to demonstrate the universality arising from the common inherent nodal structures.

id: 1211.2983
title: Selective and Efficient Quantum State Tomography and its Application to Quantum Process Tomography
authors: Ariel Bendersky, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2983
abstract: We present a method for quantum state tomography that enables the efficient estimation, with fixed precision, of any of the matrix elements of the density matrix of a state, provided that the states from the basis in which the matrix is written can be efficiently prepared in a controlled manner. Furthermore, we show how this algorithm is well suited for quantum process tomography, enabling to perform selective and efficient quantum process tomography.

id: 1211.2993
title: Efficiency vs. multi-photon contribution test for quantum dots
authors: Ana Predojevic, Miroslav Jezek, Tobias Huber, Harishankar Jayakumar, Thomas Kauten, Glenn S. Solomon, Radim Filip, Gregor Weihs
comments: This paper was published in Optics Express and is made available as an electronic reprint with the permission of OSA. The paper can be found at the bellow given URL on the OSA website. Systematic or multiple reproduction or distribution to multiple locations via electronic or other means is prohibited and is subject to penalties under law
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 22, Issue 4, pp. 4789-4798 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2993
abstract: The development of linear quantum computing within integrated circuits demands high quality semiconductor single photon sources. In particular, for a reliable single photon source it is not sufficient to have a low multi-photon component, but also to possess high efficiency. We investigate the photon statistics of the emission from a single quantum dot with a method that is able to sensitively detect the trade-off between the efficiency and the multi-photon contribution. Our measurements show, that the light emitted from the quantum dot when it is resonantly excited possess a very low multi-photon content. Additionally, we demonstrated, for the first time, the non-Gaussian nature of the quantum state emitted from a single quantum dot.

id: 1211.3002
title: Probing Planckian physics in de Sitter space with quantum correlations
authors: Jun Feng, Yao-Zhong Zhang, Mark D. Gould, Heng Fan, Cheng-Yi Sun, Wen-Li Yang
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures, replaced to match the published version
journal: Annals of Physics 351 (2014) 872-899
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3002
abstract: We study the quantum correlation and quantum communication channel of both free scalar and fermionic fields in de Sitter space, while the Planckian modification presented by the choice of a particular $\alpha$-vacuum has been considered. We show that the occurrence of degradation of quantum entanglement between field modes for an inertial observer in curved space, due to the radiation associated with its cosmological horizon. Comparing with standard Bunch-Davies choice, the possible Planckian physics causes some extra decrement on the quantum correlation, which may provide the means to detect quantum gravitational effects via quantum information methodology in future. Beyond single-mode approximation, we construct proper Unruh modes admitting general $\alpha-$vacua, and find a convergent feature of both bosonic and fermionic entanglements. In particular, we show that the convergent points of fermionic entanglement negativity are dependent on the choice of $\alpha$. Moreover, an one-to-one correspondence between convergent points $H_c$ of negativity and zeros of quantum capacity of quantum channels in de Sitter space has been proved.

id: 1211.3017
title: Squeezed coherent states as thermal-like ones (on the problem of incorporating thermodynamics into quantum theory)
authors: A.D.Sukhanov, O.N. Golubeva, V.G.Bar'yakhtar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3017
abstract: In our paper [1], we proposed an original approach to the incorporation of stochastic thermodynamics into quantum theory. It is based on the concept of consistent inclusion of the holistic stochastic environmental influence modeled by arbitrary Bogoliubov vacua. In our study, we implement a possibility of describing the states of the system "an object + arbitrary vacuum" based on the wave function. The fact that the quantum language is required becomes especially appreciable in the cases where thermal and quantum fluctuations occur simultaneously. This allows analyzing different types of quantum states and estimating the degree of their applicability to the description of thermal effects. The main result of our study reduces to the fact that squeezed coherent state (SCS) cannot be used to consistently explain quantum-thermal effects under conditions of object equilibrium with the stochastic environment at any temperatures.

id: 1211.3062
title: Bananaworld: Quantum Mechanics for Primates
authors: Jeffrey Bub
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures. Revised version corrects figures and discussion of correlation polytopes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3062
abstract: This is intended to be a serious paper, in spite of the title. The idea is that quantum mechanics is about probabilistic correlations, i.e., about the structure of information, since a theory of information is essentially a theory of probabilistic correlations. To make this clear, it suffices to consider measurements of two binary-valued observables, x with outcomes a = 0 or 1, performed by Alice in a region A, and y with outcomes b = 0 or 1 performed by Bob in a separated region B --or, to emphasize the banality of the phenomena, two ways of peeling a banana, resulting in one of two tastes. The imagined bananas of Bananaworld are non-standard, with operational or phenomenal probabilistic correlations for peelings and tastes that lie outside the polytope of local correlations. The 'no go' theorems tell us that we can't shoe-horn these correlations into a classical correlation polytope, which has the structure of a simplex, by supposing that something has been left out of the story, without giving up fundamental principles that define what we mean by a physical system. The nonclassical features of quantum mechanics, including the irreducible information loss on measurement, are shown to be generic features of correlations that lie outside the local correlation polytope. As far as the conceptual problems are concerned, we might as well talk about bananas.

id: 1211.3141
title: Generalized Entropies
authors: F. Dupuis, L. Kraemer, P. Faist, J. M. Renes, R. Renner
comments: 21 pages
journal: Proceedings of the XVIIth International Congress on Mathematical Physics, Aalborg, Denmark, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3141
abstract: We study an entropy measure for quantum systems that generalizes the von Neumann entropy as well as its classical counterpart, the Gibbs or Shannon entropy. The entropy measure is based on hypothesis testing and has an elegant formulation as a semidefinite program, a type of convex optimization. After establishing a few basic properties, we prove upper and lower bounds in terms of the smooth entropies, a family of entropy measures that is used to characterize a wide range of operational quantities. From the formulation as a semidefinite program, we also prove a result on decomposition of hypothesis tests, which leads to a chain rule for the entropy.

id: 1211.3167
title: Scattering induced spatial superpositions in multi-particle localization
authors: James S. Douglas, Keith Burnett
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052120 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3167
abstract: We describe how quasiclassical relative positions of particles emerge in an initially delocalized quantum system as scattering of a probe beam is observed. We show that in the multiparticle case this localization in position space occurs via intermediate states that are quantum superpositions of spatial configurations. These superpositions are robust to consecutive scattering events, and scattering alone does not lead to their decoherence. Instead the free evolution of the system combines with scattering to destroy these superpositions, leading the particles to adopt classical-like positions relative to one another.

id: 1211.3178
title: Non-Hermitian Quantum Annealing in the Ferromagnetic Ising Model
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, Juan Carlos Beas Zepeda, Gennady P. Berman
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 042332 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3178
abstract: We developed a non-Hermitian quantum optimization algorithm to find the ground state of the ferromagnetic Ising model with up to 1024 spins (qubits). Our approach leads to significant reduction of the annealing time. Analytical and numerical results demonstrate that the total annealing time is proportional to ln N, where N is the number of spins. This encouraging result is important in using classical computers in combination with quantum algorithms for the fast solutions of NP-complete problems. Additional research is proposed for extending our dissipative algorithm to more complicated problems.

id: 1211.3194
title: Novel High-Speed Polarization Source for Decoy-State BB84 Quantum Key Distribution over Free Space and Satellite Links
authors: Zhizhong Yan, Evan Meyer-Scott, Jean-Philippe Bourgoin, Brendon L. Higgins, Nikolay Gigov, Allison MacDonald, Hannes H¨¹bel, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures and 2 tables
journal: IEEE/OSA Journal of Lightwave Technology (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3194
abstract: To implement the BB84 decoy-state quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol over a lossy ground-satellite quantum uplink requires a source that has high repetition rate of short laser pulses, long term stability, and no phase correlations between pulses. We present a new type of telecom optical polarization and amplitude modulator, based on a balanced Mach-Zehnder interferometer configuration, coupled to a polarization-preserving sum-frequency generation (SFG) optical setup, generating 532 nm photons with modulated polarization and amplitude states. The weak coherent pulses produced by SFG meet the challenging requirements for long range QKD, featuring a high clock rate of 76 MHz, pico-second pulse width, phase randomization, and 98% polarization visibility for all states. Successful QKD has been demonstrated using this apparatus with full system stability up to 160 minutes and channel losses as high 57 dB [Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 84, p.062326]. We present the design and simulation of the hardware through the Mueller matrix and Stokes vector relations, together with an experimental implementation working in the telecom wavelength band. We show the utility of the complete system by performing high loss QKD simulations, and confirm that our modulator fulfills the expected performance.

id: 1211.3241
title: Genuine Multipartite Entanglement Trends in Gapless-gapped Transitions of Quantum Spin Systems
authors: Anindya Biswas, R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, REVTeX 4.1; v2: important additions, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3241
abstract: We investigate the behavior of genuine multiparticle entanglement, as quantified by the generalized geometric measure, in gapless-to-gapped quantum transitions of one- and two-dimensional quantum spin models. The investigations are performed in the exactly solvable one-dimensional $XY$ models, as well as two-dimensional frustrated $J_{1}-J_{2}$ models, including the Shastry-Sutherland model. The generalized geometric measure shows non-monotonic features near such transitions in the frustrated quantum systems. We also compare the features of the generalized geometric measure near the quantum critical points with the same for measures of bipartite quantum correlations. The multipartite quantum correlation measure turns out to be a better indicator of quantum critical points than the bipartite measures, especially for two-dimensional models.

id: 1211.3265
title: Onset of Fokker-Planck dynamics within a Closed Finite Spin System
authors: Hendrik Niemeyer, Daniel Schmidke, Jochen Gemmer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3265
abstract: Relaxation according to Fokker-Planck equations is a standard scenario in classical statistical mechanics. It is however not obvious how such an equilibration may emerge within a closed, finite quantum system. We present an analytical and numerical analysis of a system comprising sixteen spins in which spatial inhomogeneities of the magnetization relax approximately in accord with a standard Fokker-Planck equation for a Brownian particle in a parabolic potential.

id: 1211.3274
title: The Husimi function and a successive measurement of the position and the momentum
authors: T. Shito
comments: 9 pages, use braket.sty
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3274
abstract: In this paper, we consider an interpretation of the Husimi function as the probability distribution of a successive measurement, which is clearly separated into measurements of the position and the momentum. We also show this successive measurement can be easily realized in the situation close to the experiment, and this measurement corresponds to one of Aharanov's weak measurement.

id: 1211.3287
title: Unitary quantum gates, perfect entanglers and unistochastic maps
authors: Marcin Musz, Marek Kus, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 14 pages including 6 figures in eps, version 4, title changed according to a suggestion of the editors
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022111 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3287
abstract: Non-local properties of ensembles of quantum gates induced by the Haar measure on the unitary group are investigated. We analyze the entropy of entanglement of a unitary matrix U equal to the Shannon entropy of the vector of singular values of the reshuffled matrix. Averaging the entropy over the Haar measure on U(N^2) we find its asymptotic behaviour. For two--qubit quantum gates we derive the induced probability distribution of the interaction content and show that the relative volume of the set of perfect entanglers reads 8/3 \pi \approx 0.85. We establish explicit conditions under which a given one-qubit bistochastic map is unistochastic, so it can be obtained by partial trace over a one--qubit environment initially prepared in the maximally mixed state.

id: 1211.3294
title: Extremal extensions of entanglement witnesses and their connection with UPB
authors: R. Sengupta, Arvind
comments: 6 pages 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012318 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3294
abstract: In this paper we describe a new connection between UPB (unextendable product bases) and P (positive) maps which are not CP (completely positive). We show that inner automorphisms of the set of P maps which are not CP, produce extremal extensions of these maps that help in entanglement detection. By constructing such an extension of the well-known Choi map, we strengthen its power to unearth PPT (positive under partial transpose) entangled states. We further show that the class of maps generated from the Choi map via an inner automorphism naturally detects the entanglement of states in the orthogonal complement of certain UPB. This brings out a hitherto undiscovered connection between the Choi map and UPB. We also show that certain other recently considered extremal extensions are obtainable by such extensions of the Choi map.

id: 1211.3330
title: Generation of arbitrary symmetric entangled states with conditional linear optical coupling
authors: Anton V. Sharypov, Bing He
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032323 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3330
abstract: An approach for generating the entangled photonic states |F1,F2>+|F2,F1> from two arbitrary states |F1> and |F2> is proposed. The protocol is implemented by the conditionally induced beam-splitter coupling which leads to the selective swapping between two photonic modes. Such coupling occurs in a quantum system prepared in the superposition of two ground states with only one of them being involved in the swapping. All the entangled states in the category, such as entangled pairs of coherent states or Fock states (N00N states), can be efficiently produced in the same way by this method.

id: 1211.3381
title: Gauge theory extension to include number scaling by boson field: Effects on some aspects of physics and geometry
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 44 pages 9 figures, some minor errors fixed, a few changes made in text to make clearer. To appear as chapter in "Recent Developments in Bosons Research", Published by Nova Press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3381
abstract: In gauge theories, separate vector spaces, Vx, are assigned to each space time point x with unitary operators as maps between basis vectors in neighboring Vx. Here gauge theories are extended by replacing the single underlying set of complex scalars, C, with separate sets, Cx, at each x, and including scaling between the Cx. In gauge theory Lagrangians, number scaling shows as a scalar boson field, B, with small coupling to matter fields. Freedom of number scaling is extended to a model with separate number structures assigned to each point x. Separate collections, Ux, of all mathematical systems based on numbers, are assigned to each x. Mathematics available to an observer, Ox, at x is that in Ux. The B field induces scaling between structures in the different Ux. Effects of B scaling on some aspects of physics and geometry are described. The lack of experimentally observed scaling means that B(z) is essentially constant for all points, z, in a region, Z, that can be occupied by us as observers. This restriction does not apply outside Z. The effects of B scaling on line elements, curve lengths, and distances between points, are examined. Oz's description, using Uz in Z, of elements at points, x, outside Z, includes scaling from x to z. Integrals over curves include scaling factors inside the integrals. Two examples are discussed. One shows that B(t) can be such that mathematical, physical, and geometric quantities approach zero as the time t approaches zero. This mimics the big bang in that distances approach zero. Examples of black and white scaling holes are described in which B(x) is plus or minus infinity at a point x.

id: 1211.3405
title: The Measurement Based Quantum Computing Search Algorithm is Faster than Grover's Algorithm
authors: A. Matthew Smith, P. M. Alsing
comments: Currently being rewritten due to measurement angles being in the clifford group and thus can be efficiently simulated by the Gottsman-Knill theorem
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3405
abstract: We find that the Measurement Based Quantum Computing (MBQC) search algorithm on an unsorted list is not the same as Grover's search algorithm (GSA).

id: 1211.3407
title: Is the Measurement Based Quantum Computing Search Algorithm Really Grover's Algorithm?
authors: A. Matthew Smith, P. M. Alsing, J. R. McDonald, D.B. Uskov
comments: Currently being rewritten due to measurement angles being in the clifford group and thus can be efficiently simulated by the Gottsman-Knill theorem
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3407
abstract: We question whether the measurement based quantum computing algorithm is in fact Grover's algorithm or simply a similar oracular search method. The two algorithms share several qualitative features especially in the case of the trivial 4 element search, which is the largest size photonic search algorithm that has been experimentally implemented to date. This has led some to refer to both substantiations as Grover's algorithm. We compare multiple features of the two algorithms including the behavior of the oracle tags and the entanglement dynamics, both qualitatively and quantitatively. We find significant and fundamental differences in the operation of the two algorithms, particularly in cases involving searches on more than four elements.

id: 1211.3422
title: Construction of Energy Functions for Lattice Heteropolymer Models: A Case Study in Constraint Satisfaction Programming and Adiabatic Quantum Optimization
authors: Ryan Babbush, Alejandro Perdomo-Ortiz, Bryan O'Gorman, William Macready, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 44 pages, 21 figures
journal: Advances in Chemical Physics: Volume 155 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3422
abstract: Optimization problems associated with the interaction of linked particles are at the heart of polymer science, protein folding and other important problems in the physical sciences. In this review we explain how to recast these problems as constraint satisfaction problems such as linear programming, maximum satisfiability, and pseudo-boolean optimization. By encoding problems this way, one can leverage substantial insight and powerful solvers from the computer science community which studies constraint programming for diverse applications such as logistics, scheduling, artificial intelligence, and circuit design. We demonstrate how to constrain and embed lattice heteropolymer problems using several strategies. Each strikes a unique balance between number of constraints, complexity of constraints, and number of variables. Finally, we show how to reduce the locality of couplings in these energy functions so they can be realized as Hamiltonians on existing quantum annealing machines. We intend that this review be used as a case study for encoding related combinatorial optimization problems in a form suitable for adiabatic quantum optimization.

id: 1211.3464
title: Matrix Product State Representation without explicit local Hilbert Space Truncation with Applications to the Sub-Ohmic Spin-Boson Model
authors: Max F. Frenzel, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 073046 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3464
abstract: We present an alternative to the conventional matrix product state representation, which allows us to avoid the explicit local Hilbert space truncation many numerical methods employ. Utilising chain mappings corresponding to linear and logarithmic discretizations of the spin-boson model onto a semi-infinite chain, we apply the new method to the sub-ohmic SBM. We are able to reproduce many well-established features of the quantum phase transition, such as the critical exponent 1/2 predicted by mean-field theory. Via extrapolation of finite-chain results, we are able to determine the infinite-chain critical couplings at which the transition occurs and, in general, study the behaviour of the system well into the localised phase.

id: 1211.3519
title: Analysis and estimation of the threshold for a microwave "pellicle mirror" parametric oscillator, via energy conservation
authors: Raymond Y. Chiao
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3519
abstract: An experiment is proposed to observe the dynamical Casimir effect by means of two tandem, high Q, superconducting microwave cavities, which are separated from each other by only a very thin wall consisting of a flexible superconducting membrane that can be driven into motion by means of resonant "pump" microwaves injected into the left cavity. Degenerate "signal" and "idler" microwave signals can then be generated by the exponential amplification of vacuum fluctuations in the initially empty right cavity, above a certain threshold. The purpose of this paper is calculate the threshold for this novel kind of opto-mechanical parametric oscillation, using energy considerations.

id: 1211.3538
title: The Schmidt modes of biphoton qutrits: Poincare-sphere representation
authors: M V Chekhova, M V Fedorov
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3538
abstract: For a general-form polarization biphoton qutrit, physically corresponding to a pair of arbitrarily polarized photons in a single frequency and wavevector mode, we explicitly find polarization Schmidt modes. A simple method is suggested for factorizing the state vector and the explicit expressions for the factorizing photon creation operators are found. The degrees of entanglement and polarization of a qutrit are shown to depend directly on the commutation features of the factorizing operators. Clear graphic representations for the Stokes vectors of the qutrit state as a whole, its Schmidt modes, and factorizing single-photon creation operators are given, based on the Poincar\'e sphere. An experimental scheme is proposed for measuring the parameters of the Schmidt decomposition as well as for demonstrating the operational meaning of qutrit entanglement.

id: 1211.3550
title: Time evolution of continuous-time quantum walks on dynamical percolation graphs
authors: Zolt¨¢n Dar¨¢zs, Tam¨¢s Kiss
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 375305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3550
abstract: We study the time evolution of continuous-time quantum walks on randomly changing graphs. At certain moments edges of the graph appear or disappear with a given probability. We focus on the case when the time interval between subsequent changes of the graph tends to zero. We derive explicit formulae for the general evolution in this limit. We find that the percolation in this limit causes an effective time rescaling. Independently of the graph and the initial state of the walk, the time is rescaled by the probability of keeping and edge. Both the individual trajectories for a single system and average properties with a superoperator formalism are discussed. We give an analytical proof for our theorem and we also present results from numerical simulations of the phenomena for different graphs.

id: 1211.3555
title: Detecting measurement-induced relative-position localisation
authors: P.A. Knott, J. Sindt, J.A. Dunningham
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 095501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3555
abstract: One interpretation of how the classical world emerges from an underlying quantum reality involves the build-up of certain robust entanglements between particles due to scattering events [Science Vol.301 p.1081]. This is an appealing view because it unifies two apparently disparate theories. It says that the uniquely quantum effect of entanglement is associated with classical behaviour. This is distinct from other interpretations that says classicality arises when quantum correlations are lost or neglected in measurements. To date the weakness of this interpretation has been the lack of a clear experimental signature that allows it to be tested. Here we provide a simple experimentally accessible scheme that enables just that. We also discuss a Bayesian technique that could, in principle, allow experiments to confirm the theory to any desired degree of accuracy and we present precision requirements that are achievable with current experiments. Finally, we extend the scheme from its initial one dimensional proof of principle to the more real world scenario of three dimensional localisation.

id: 1211.3560
title: Correlations of entangled quantum states cannot be classically simulated
authors: Denis Rosset, Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Gisin, Yeong-Cherng Liang
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure. Version published in NJP
journal: New J. Phys. 15 053025 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3560
abstract: Simulation tasks are insightful tools to compare information-theoretic resources. Considering a generalization of usual Bell scenarios where external quantum inputs are provided to the parties, we show that any entangled quantum state exhibits correlations that cannot be simulated using only shared randomness and classical communication, even when the amount and rounds of classical communication involved are unrestricted. We indeed construct explicit Bell-like inequalities that are necessarily satisfied by such classical resources but nevertheless violated by correlations obtainable from entangled quantum states, when measured a single copy at a time.

id: 1211.3570
title: Quantum-Dense Metrology
authors: Sebastian Steinlechner, J?ran Bauchrowitz, Melanie Meinders, Helge M¨¹ller-Ebhardt, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; includes supplementary materials
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3570
abstract: Quantum metrology utilizes entanglement for improving the sensitivity of measurements. Up to now the focus has been on the measurement of just one out of two non-commuting observables. Here we demonstrate a laser interferometer that provides information about two non-commuting observables, with uncertainties below that of the meter's quantum ground state. Our experiment is a proof-of-principle of quantum dense metrology, and uses the additional information to distinguish between the actual phase signal and a parasitic signal due to scattered and frequency shifted photons. Our approach can be readily applied to improve squeezed-light enhanced gravitational-wave detectors at non-quantum noise limited detection frequencies in terms of a sub shot-noise veto-channel.

id: 1211.3697
title: Replay to "Comment on 'Quantum phase for an arbitrary system with finite-dimensional Hilbert space'
authors: D. Aesenovic, N. Buric, D. Davidovic, S. Prvanovic
comments: This is our replay to the comment by M. Hall and D. Pegg (arXiv:1206.4385; Phys. Rev. A 86 (2012) 056101) on our paper Phys.Rev.A, 85 044103 (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3697
abstract: We point out the crucial difference between the relative and absolute phase observables treated in our contribution \cite{1} and in the Comment by Hall and Pegg \cite{HP} respectively. The main contribution of our work is to show that the quantum expectation of the relative phase is highly discontinuous function of the frequency and to point out interesting dependence of the phase on the number-theoretic nature of the frequencies.

id: 1211.3794
title: Non-deterministic noiseless amplification via non-symplectic phase space transformations
authors: Nathan Walk, Austin P. Lund, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, missing reference added
journal: New J. Phys. 2013 vol. 15 (7) pp. 073014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3794
abstract: We analyse the action of an ideal noiseless linear amplifier operator, $g^\hat{n}$, using the Wigner function phase space representation. In this setting we are able to clarify the gain $g$ for which a physical output is produced when this operator is acted upon inputs other than coherent states. We derive compact closed form expressions for the action of $N$ local amplifiers, with potentially different gains, on arbitrary $N$-mode Gaussian states and provide several examples of the utility of this formalism for determining important quantities including amplification and the strength and purity of the distilled entanglement, and for optimising the use of the amplification in quantum information protocols.

id: 1211.3804
title: Neural networks using two-component Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Tim Byrnes, Shinsuke Koyama, Kai Yan, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 3 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 2531 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3804
abstract: The authors previously considered a method solving optimization problems by using a system of interconnected network of two component Bose-Einstein condensates (Byrnes, Yan, Yamamoto New J. Phys. 13, 113025 (2011)). The use of bosonic particles was found to give a reduced time proportional to the number of bosons N for solving Ising model Hamiltonians by taking advantage of enhanced bosonic cooling rates. In this paper we consider the same system in terms of neural networks. We find that up to the accelerated cooling of the bosons the previously proposed system is equivalent to a stochastic continuous Hopfield network. This makes it clear that the BEC network is a physical realization of a simulated annealing algorithm, with an additional speedup due to bosonic enhancement. We discuss the BEC network in terms of typical neural network tasks such as learning and pattern recognition and find that the latter process may be accelerated by a factor of N.

id: 1211.3819
title: Quantum register based on structured diamond waveguide with NV centers
authors: Alexander V. Tsukanov, Igor Yu. Kateev, Alexander A. Orlikovsky
comments: to be published in Proc. of SPIE
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3819
abstract: We propose a scheme of quantum information processing with NV-centers embedded inside diamond nanostructure. Single NV-center placed in the cavity plays role of an electron spin qubit which evolution is controlled by microwave pulses. Besides, it couples to the cavity field via optical photon exchange. In their turn, neighbor cavities are coupled to each other through the photon hopping to form a bus waveguide mode. This waveguide mode overlaps with all NV-centers. Entanglement between distant centers is organized by appropriate tuning of their optical frequency relative to the waveguide frequency via electrostatic control without lasers. We describe the controlled-Z operation that is by one order of magnitude faster than in off-resonant laser-assisted schemes proposed earlier. Spectral characteristics of the one-dimensional chain of microdisks are calculated by means of numerical modeling, using the approach analogous to the tight-binding approximation in the solid-state physics. The data obtained allow to optimize the geometry of the microdisk array for the effective implementation of quantum operations.

id: 1211.3847
title: A note on the Relationship between Localization and Norm-1 Property
authors: Roberto Beneduci, Franklin E. Schroeck Jr
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3847
abstract: The paper focuses on the problem of localization in quantum mechanics. It is well known that it is not possible to define a localization observable for the photon by means of projection valued measures. Conversely, that is possible by using positive operator valued measures. On the other hand, projection valued measures imply a kind of localization which is stronger than the one implied by positive operator valued measures. It has been claimed that the norm-1 property would in some sense reduce the gap between the two kind of localizations. We give a necessary condition for the norm-1 property and show that it is not satisfied by several important localization observables.

id: 1211.3877
title: Characterizing Genuine Multisite Entanglement in Isotropic Spin Lattices
authors: Himadri Shekhar Dhar, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 5 + 1 pages, 1 + 1 figures, Supplemetal Material included, REVTeX 4.1, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 070501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3877
abstract: We consider a class of large superposed states, obtained from dimer coverings on spin-1/2 isotropic lattices, whose potential usefulness ranges from organic molecules to quantum computation. We show that they are genuinely multiparty entangled, irrespective of the geometry and dimension of the isotropic lattice. We then present an efficient method to characterize the genuine multisite entanglement in the case of isotropic square spin-1/2 lattices, with short-range dimer coverings. We use this iterative analytical method to calculate the multisite entanglement of finite-sized lattices, which through finite-size scaling, enables us to obtain the estimate of the multisite entanglement of the infinite square lattice. The method can be a useful tool to investigate other single- and multisite properties of such states.

id: 1211.3900
title: Correlated Coherent States - Quantum Analogue Of Thermal States.(On The Problem Of Incorporating Thermodynamics Into Quantum Theory)
authors: A. D. Sukhanov, O. N. Golubjeva, V. G. Bar'yakhtar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3900
abstract: In this paper, we show that correlated coherent states (CCSs) are the most adequate candidates for the role of quantum analogues of the thermal states. The main result of our study reduces to the fact that quantum thermal effects under conditions of the equilibrium of an object with the stochastic environment at any temperatures can be explained consistently only on the basis of the set of CCSs.

id: 1211.3911
title: Encoding Hypergraphs into Quantum States
authors: Ri Qu, Juan Wang, Zong-shang Li, Yan-ru Bao
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022311 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3911
abstract: Ionicioiu and Spiller [Phys. Rev. A 85, 062313 (2012)] have recently presented an axiomatic framework for mapping graphs to quantum states of a suitable physical system. Based on their study, we first extend the axiomatic framework to hypergraphs by means of modifying its axioms and consistency conditions. Then we use the axiomatic approach to encode hypergraphs into a new family of quantum states, called the hypergraph states. Moreover, we also try to do the followings: (i) to show that real equally weighted states, which occur in Grover and Deutsch-Joza algorithms, are equivalent to hypergraph states; (ii) to describe the relations among hypergraph states, graph states and stabilizer states; (iii) to provide some transformation rules, stated in purely hypergraph theoretical terms, which completely characterize the evolution of hypergraph states under some local operations, including operators in Pauli group and some special local Pauli measurements; and (iv) to investigate some properties of multipartite entanglement of hypergraph states by hypergraph theory.

id: 1211.3923
title: Occurrence conditions for two-dimensional Borromean systems
authors: A. G. Volosniev, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2013) 67: 95
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3923
abstract: We search for Borromean three-body systems of identical bosons in two dimensional geometry, i.e. we search for bound three-boson system without bound two-body subsystems. Unlike three spatial dimensions, in two-dimensional geometry the two- and three-body thresholds often coincide ruling out Borromean systems. We show that Borromean states can only appear for potentials with substantial attractive and repulsive parts. Borromean states are most easily found when a barrier is present outside an attractive pocket. Extensive numerical search did not reveal Borromean states for potentials without an outside barrier. We outline possible experimental setups to observe Borromean systems in two spatial dimensions.

id: 1211.3935
title: Calculus of continuous matrix product states
authors: Jutho Haegeman, J. Ignacio Cirac, Tobias J. Osborne, Frank Verstraete
comments: 42 pages + appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 085118 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3935
abstract: We discuss various properties of the variational class of continuous matrix product states, a class of ansatz states for one-dimensional quantum fields that was recently introduced as the direct continuum limit of the highly successful class of matrix product states. We discuss both attributes of the physical states, e.g. by showing in detail how to compute expectation values, as well as properties intrinsic to the representation itself, such as the gauge freedom. We consider general translation non-invariant systems made of several particle species and derive certain regularity properties that need to be satisfied by the variational parameters. We also devote a section to the translation invariant setting in the thermodynamic limit and show how continuous matrix product states possess an intrinsic ultraviolet cutoff. Finally, we introduce a new set of states which are tangent to the original set of continuous matrix product states. For the case of matrix product states, this construction has recently proven relevant in the development of new algorithms for studying time evolution and elementary excitations of quantum spin chains. We thus lay the foundation for similar developments for one-dimensional quantum fields.

id: 1211.3947
title: The Eckart frame Hamiltonians in the three-body problem
authors: A. V. Meremianin
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures. Regular paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3947
abstract: The Eckart frame is used to separate out the collective rotations in the quantum three-body problem. Explicit expressions for the corresponding rotational and vibro-rotational (i.e. Coriolis) Hamiltonians are derived. Special attention is paid to the situation when two principal moments of inertia are equal in the equilibrium configuration.

id: 1211.3953
title: Quantum Simulations of Relativistic Quantum Physics in Circuit QED
authors: J. S. Pedernales, R. Di Candia, D. Ballester, E. Solano
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 055008 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3953
abstract: We present a scheme for simulating relativistic quantum physics in circuit quantum electrodynamics. By using three classical microwave drives, we show that a superconducting qubit strongly-coupled to a resonator field mode can be used to simulate the dynamics of the Dirac equation and Klein paradox in all regimes. Using the same setup we also propose the implementation of the Foldy-Wouthuysen canonical transformation, after which the time derivative of the position operator becomes a constant of the motion.

id: 1211.3960
title: An Efficient Integrated Two-Color Source for Heralded Single Photons
authors: Stephan Krapick, Harald Herrmann, Viktor Quiring, Benjamin Brecht, Hubertus Suche, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 17 pages, 16 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013), 033010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3960
abstract: We present a pulsed and integrated, highly non-degenerate parametric downconversion (PDC) source of heralded single photons at telecom wavelengths, paired with heralding photons around 800 nm. The active PDC section is combined with a passive, integrated wavelength division demultiplexer on-chip, which allows for the spatial separation of signal and idler photons with efficiencies of more than 96.5 %, as well as with multi-band reflection and anti-reflection coatings which facilitate low incoupling losses and a pump suppression at the output of the device of more than 99 %. Our device is capable of preparing single photons with efficiencies of 60 % with a coincidences-to-accidentals ratio exceeding 7400. Likewise it shows practically no significant background noise compared to continuous wave realizations. For low pump powers, we measure a conditioned second-order correlation function of g^(2)(0)=0.0038, which proves almost pure single photon generation. In addition, our source can feature a high brightness of <n_pulse>=0.24 generated photon pairs per pump pulse at pump power levels below 100 uW. The high quality of the pulsed PDC process in conjunction with the integration of highly efficient passive elements makes our device a promising candidate for future quantum networking applications, where an efficient miniaturization plays a crucial role.

id: 1211.4022
title: Negativity of quantumness and its interpretations
authors: Takafumi Nakano, Marco Piani, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure; v2 submitted: includes improvements in the presentation, updated references, and a clear statement and proof (Theorem V.5) of the equivalence between the trace-norm distance from CQ states and the minimum disturbance under projective measurements---again in trace-norm distance---when the system checked for classicality is a qubit
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4022
abstract: We analyze the general nonclassicality of correlations of a composite quantum systems as measured by the negativity of quantumness. The latter corresponds to the minimum entanglement, as quantified by the negativity, that is created between the system and an apparatus that is performing local measurements on a selection of subsystems. The negativity of quantumness thus quantifies the degree of nonclassicality on the measured subsystems. We demonstrate a number of possible different interpretations for this measure, and for the concept of quantumness of correlations in general. In particular, for general bipartite states in which the measured subsystem is a qubit, the negativity of quantumness acquires a geometric interpretation as the minimum trace distance from the set of classically correlated states. This can be further reinterpreted as minimum disturbance, with respect to trace norm, due to a local measurement or a nontrivial local unitary operation. We calculate the negativity of quantumness in closed form for Werner and isotropic states, and for all two-qubit states for which the reduced state of the system that is locally measured is maximally mixed---this includes all Bell diagonal states. We discuss the operational significance and potential role of the negativity of quantumness in quantum information processing.

id: 1211.4050
title: Preparing topological PEPS on a quantum computer
authors: Martin Schwarz, Toby S. Cubitt, Kristan Temme, Frank Verstraete, David Perez-Garcia
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, REVTeX format
journal: Physical Review A 88, 032321 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4050
abstract: Simulating of exotic phases of matter that are not amenable to classical techniques is one of the most important potential applications of quantum information processing. We present an efficient algorithm for preparing a large class of topological quantum states -- the G-injective Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS) -- on a quantum computer. Important examples include the resonant valence bond (RVB) states, conjectured to be topological spin liquids. The runtime of the algorithm scales polynomially with the condition number of the PEPS projectors, and inverse-polynomially in the spectral gap of the PEPS parent Hamiltonian.

id: 1211.4118
title: Exploring pure quantum states with maximally mixed reductions
authors: Ludovic Arnaud, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012319 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4118
abstract: We investigate multipartite entanglement for composite quantum systems in a pure state. Using the generalized Bloch representation for n-qubit states, we express the condition that all k-qubit reductions of the whole system are maximally mixed, reflecting maximum bipartite entanglement across all k vs. n-k bipartitions. As a special case, we examine the class of balanced pure states, which are constructed from a subset of the Pauli group P_n that is isomorphic to Z_2^n. This makes a connection with the theory of quantum error-correcting codes and provides bounds on the largest allowed k for fixed n. In particular, the ratio k/n can be lower and upper bounded in the asymptotic regime, implying that there must exist multipartite entangled states with at least k=0.189 n when $n\to \infty$. We also analyze symmetric states as another natural class of states with high multipartite entanglement and prove that, surprisingly, they cannot have all maximally mixed k-qubit reductions with k>1. Thus, measured through bipartite entanglement across all bipartitions, symmetric states cannot exhibit large entanglement. However, we show that the permutation symmetry only constrains some components of the generalized Bloch vector, so that very specific patterns in this vector may be allowed even though k>1 is forbidden. This is illustrated numerically for a few symmetric states that maximize geometric entanglement, revealing some interesting structures.

id: 1211.4169
title: Uncertainties in Successive Measurements
authors: Jacques Distler, Sonia Paban
comments: Improvements in the prose (thanks to the referee). Version to appear in Phys. Rev. A. 23 pages, utarticle.cls
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4169
abstract: When you measure an observable, A, in Quantum Mechanics, the state of the system changes. This, in turn, affects the quantum-mechanical uncertainty in some non-commuting observable, B. The standard Uncertainty Relation puts a lower bound on the uncertainty of B in the initial state. What is relevant for a subsequent measurement of B, however, is the uncertainty of B in the post-measurement state. We re-examine this problem, both in the case where A has a pure point spectrum and in the case where A has a continuous spectrum. In the latter case, the need to include a finite detector resolution, as part of what it means to measure such an observable, has dramatic implications for the result of successive measurements. Ozawa proposed an inequality satisfied in the case of successive measurements. Among our results, we show that his inequality is ineffective (can never come close to being saturated). For the cases of interest, we compute a sharper lower bound.

id: 1211.4182
title: Is a single photon's wave front observable?
authors: A.M. Zagoskin, R.D. Wilson, M. Everitt, S. Savel'ev, D.R. Gulevich, J. Allen, V.K. Dubrovich, E. Il'ichev
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4182
abstract: The ultimate goal and the theoretical limit of weak signal detection is the ability to detect a single photon against a noisy background. [...] In this paper we show, that a combination of a quantum metamaterial (QMM)-based sensor matrix and quantum non-demolition (QND) readout of its quantum state allows, in principle, to detect a single photon in several points, i.e., to observe its wave front. Actually, there are a few possible ways of doing this, with at least one within the reach of current experimental techniques for the microwave range. The ability to resolve the quantum-limited signal from a remote source against a much stronger local noise would bring significant advantages to such diverse fields of activity as, e.g., microwave astronomy and missile defence. The key components of the proposed method are 1) the entangling interaction of the incoming photon with the QMM sensor array, which produces the spatially correlated quantum state of the latter, and 2) the QND readout of the collective observable (e.g., total magnetic moment), which characterizes this quantum state. The effects of local noise (e.g., fluctuations affecting the elements of the matrix) will be suppressed relative to the signal from the spatially coherent field of (even) a single photon.

id: 1211.4202
title: Parity breaking and scaling behavior in light-matter interaction
authors: T. Liu, M. Feng, W. L. Yang, J. H. Zou, L. Li, Y. X. Fan, K. L. Wang
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4202
abstract: The light-matter interaction described by Rabi model and Jaynes-Cummings (JC) model is investigated by parity breaking as well as the scaling behavior of ground-state population-inversion expectation. We show that the parity breaking leads to different scaling behaviors in the two models, where the Rabi model demonstrates scaling invariance, but the JC model behaves in cusp-like way. Our study helps further understanding rotating-wave approximation and could present more subtle physics than any other characteristic parameter for the difference between the two models. More importantly, our results could be straightforwardly applied to the understanding of quantum phase transitions in spin-boson model. Furthermore, the scaling behavior is observable using currently available techniques in light-matter interaction.

id: 1211.4224
title: Controlling wave function localization in a multiple quantum well structure
authors: Anjana Bagga, Anu Venugopalan
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4224
abstract: The dynamics of a wave function describing a particle confined in a multiple quantum well potential is studied numerically. As a consequence of quantum mechanical tunneling, an initial wavefunction designed to be localized in one well can localize in the others after a certain time and hop between wells at times which depends on the height and width of the barriers separating the wells. This feature could find potential application in controlling electron transport in quantum well heterostructures

id: 1211.4250
title: Exclusivity structures and graph representatives of local complementation orbits
authors: Adan Cabello, Matthew G. Parker, Giannicola Scarpa, Simone Severini
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 54, 072202 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4250
abstract: We describe a construction that maps any connected graph G on three or more vertices into a larger graph, H(G), whose independence number is strictly smaller than its Lov\'asz number which is equal to its fractional packing number. The vertices of H(G) represent all possible events consistent with the stabilizer group of the graph state associated with G, and exclusive events are adjacent. Mathematically, the graph H(G) corresponds to the orbit of G under local complementation. Physically, the construction translates into graph-theoretic terms the connection between a graph state and a Bell inequality maximally violated by quantum mechanics. In the context of zero-error information theory, the construction suggests a protocol achieving the maximum rate of entanglement-assisted capacity, a quantum mechanical analogue of the Shannon capacity, for each H(G). The violation of the Bell inequality is expressed by the one-shot version of this capacity being strictly larger than the independence number. Finally, given the correspondence between graphs and exclusivity structures, we are able to compute the independence number for certain infinite families of graphs with the use of quantum non-locality, therefore highlighting an application of quantum theory in the proof of a purely combinatorial statement.

id: 1211.4255
title: Quantum Coherence and Entanglement in the Avian Compass
authors: James A. Pauls, Yiteng Zhang, Gennady P. Berman, Sabre Kais
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4255
abstract: The radical pair mechanism is one of two distinct mechanisms used to explain the navigation of birds in geomagnetic fields. However, little research has been done to explore the role of quantum entanglement in this mechanism. In this paper, we study the lifetime of radical pair entanglement corresponding to the magnitude and direction of magnetic fields to show that the entanglement lasts long enough in birds to be used for navigation. We also demonstrate that, due to a lack of orientational sensitivity of the entanglement in the geomagnetic field, the birds are not able to orient themselves by the mechanism based directly on radical-pair entanglement. To explore the entanglement mechanism further, we propose a model in which the hyperfine interactions are replaced by local magnetic fields of similar strength. The entanglement of the radical pair in this model lasts longer and displays an angular sensitivity in weak magnetic fields, both of these factors are not present in the previous models.

id: 1211.4270
title: EPR's reality criterion and quantum realism
authors: Florin Moldoveanu
comments: added 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4270
abstract: We show that EPR's criterion of reality leads to contradictions in quantum mechanics. When locality is assumed, an inequality involving only one particle is violated, while when parameter and outcome dependence are assumed, EPR-realism is shown to be not Lorentz invariant. Quantum mechanics is both non-local and non-realistic.

id: 1211.4292
title: Weak measurements with completely mixed probe states
authors: Shuhei Tamate, Toshihiro Nakanishi, Masao Kitano
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4292
abstract: Weak measurements with mixed probe states were investigated in the presence of noise in the probe system. We show that the completely mixed state can be used as a probe state for weak measurements of imaginary weak values. The completely mixed probe state has some advantages in terms of noise tolerance. We also experimentally demonstrated weak measurements of polarization rotation via unpolarized light, which corresponds to weak measurements with completely mixed probe states in a two-state system.

id: 1211.4302
title: Non-locally entangled microwave and micromechanical squeezed cats: a phase transition-based protocol
authors: A. A. Gangat, I. P. McCulloch, G. J. Milburn
comments: main: 19 pages, 6 figures. suppl. info.: 8 pages, 4 figures. v3: new and expanded numerical results with damping, slightly different system parameters, supplementary information added, changed title and abstract. Comments welcome. Note: some characters missing in figures due to arXiv latex compiler error
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4302
abstract: Electromechanical systems currently offer a path to engineering quantum states of microwave and micromechanical modes that are of both fundamental and applied interest. Particularly desirable, but not yet observed, are mechanical states that exhibit entanglement, wherein non-classical correlations exist between distinct modes; squeezing, wherein the quantum uncertainty of an observable quantity is reduced below the standard quantum limit; and Schr\"odinger cats, wherein a single mode is cast in a quantum superposition of macroscopically distinct classical states. Also, while most investigations of electromechanical systems have focussed on single- or few-body scenarios, the many-body regime remains virtually unexplored. In such a regime quantum phase transitions naturally present themselves as a resource for quantum state generation, thereby providing a route toward entangling a large number of electromechanical systems in highly non-classical states. Here we show how to use existing superconducting circuit technology to implement a (quasi) quantum phase transition in an array of electromechanical systems such that entanglement, squeezing, and Schr\"odinger cats become simultaneously observable across multiple microwave and micromechanical oscillators.

id: 1211.4306
title: From superoperator formalism to nonequilibrium Thermo Field Dynamics
authors: Yusuke Nakamura, Yoshiya Yamanaka
comments: 22 pages, no figure
journal: Annals of Physics 331, 51(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4306
abstract: Emphasizing that the specification of the representation space or the quasiparticle picture is essential in nonequilibrium quantum field system, we have constructed the unique unperturbed representation of the interaction picture in the superoperator formalism. To achieve it, we put the three basic requirements (the existence of the quasiparticle picture at each instant of time, the macroscopic causality and the relaxation to equilibrium). From the resultant representation follows the formulation of nonequilibrium Thermo Field Dynamics (TFD). The two parameters, the number distribution and excitation energy, characterizing the representation, are to be determined by the renormalization condition. While we point out that the diagonalization condition by Chu and Umezawa is inconsistent with the equilibrium theory, we propose a new renormalization condition as a generalization of the on-shell renormalization on the self-energy which derives the quantum transport equation and determines the renormalized excitation energy.

id: 1211.4315
title: Quantum-state steering in optomechanical devices
authors: Helge Mueller-Ebhardt, Haixing Miao, Stefan Danilishin, Yanbei Chen
comments: 7 pages and 2 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4315
abstract: We show that optomechanical systems in the quantum regime can be used to demonstrate EPR-type quantum entanglement between the optical field and the mechanical oscillator, via quantum-state steering. Namely, the conditional quantum state of the mechanical oscillator can be steered into different quantum states depending the choice made on which quadrature of the out-going field is to be measured via homodyne detection. More specifically, if quantum radiation pressure force dominates over thermal force, the oscillator's quantum state is steerable with a photodetection efficiency as low as 50%, approaching the ideal limit shown by Wiseman and Gambetta [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 108}, 220402 (2012)]. We also show that requirement for steerability is the same as those for achieving sub-Heisenberg state tomography using the same experimental setup.

id: 1211.4377
title: Dynamical Decoupling in Common Environment
authors: Yu Pan, Hong-Ting Song, Zai-Rong Xi
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 205504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4377
abstract: Dynamical decoupling (DD) sequences were invented to eliminate the direct coupling between qubit and its environment. We further investigate the possibility of decoupling the indirect qubit-qubit interaction induced by a common environment, and sucessfully find simplified solutions that preserve the bipartite quantum states to arbitrary order. Through analyzing the exact dynamics of the controlled two-qubit density matrix, we have proven that applying independent Uhrig Dynamical Decoupling (UDD) on each qubit will effectively eliminate both the qubit- environment and indirect qubit-qubit coupling to the same order as in single qubit case, only if orders of the two UDD sequences have different parity. More specifically, UDD(n) on one qubit with UDD(m) on another are able to produce min(n,m)th order suppression while n + m is odd. Our results can be used to reduce the pulse number in relevant experiments for protecting bipartite quantum states, or dynamically manipulate the indirect interaction within certain quantum gate and quantum bus.

id: 1211.4378
title: Engineering a thermal squeezed reservoir by system energy modulation
authors: Ephraim Shahmoon, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013841 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4378
abstract: We show that a thermal reservoir can effectively act as a squeezed reservoir on atoms that are subject to energy-level modulation. For sufficiently fast and strong modulation, for which the rotating-wave-approximation is broken, the resulting squeezing persists at long times. These effects are analyzed by a master equation that is valid beyond the rotating wave approximation. As an example we consider a two-level-atom in a cavity with Lorentzian linewidth, subject to sinusoidal energy modulation. A possible realization of these effects is discussed for Rydberg atoms.

id: 1211.4419
title: Ultra-broadband continuously-tunable polarization entangled photon pair source covering the C+L telecom bands based on a single type-II PPKTP crystal
authors: Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Yun-Kun Jiang, Dong-Sheng Ding, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Any comments on this article are welcome
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 60, 720(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4419
abstract: In this work, we report on the preparation of an ultra-broadband continuously-tunable, highly polarization-entangled photon-pair source covering the C+L telecom bands using a single type-II phase-matched bulk PPKTP crystal. Over 60 nm turning band of the down-converted photons is achieved experimentally. The broad tuning ability is due to operating near an extended phase match point in this crystal. The S parameter value of CHSH inequality is in the range between 2.60+/-0.04 (minimum) and 2.72+/-0.07 (maximum), which clearly demonstrates the high entanglement of the source over the whole tunable range. This is the first realization of such a broadband tunable degenerate polarization entanglement pair source in the telecom band. Combined with dense wavelength-division multiplexing technique, our source could be used to improve the transmission capacity of a single communication channel in the field of quantum communication.

id: 1211.4435
title: Nonlinear dissipation can combat linear loss
authors: D. Mogilevtsev, A. Mikhalychev, V. S. Shchesnovich, N. Korolkova
comments: Submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063847 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4435
abstract: We demonstrate that it is possible to compensate for effects of strong linear loss when generating non-classical states by engineered nonlinear dissipation. We show that it is always possible to construct such a loss-resistant dissipative gadget in which, for a certain class of initial states, the desired non-classical pure state can be attained within a particular time interval with an arbitrary precision. Further we demonstrate that an arbitrarily large linear loss can still be compensated by a sufficiently strong coherent or even thermal driving, thus attaining a strongly non-classical (in particular, sub-Poissonian) stationary mixed states.

id: 1211.4456
title: Quantum Information Processing with Nanomechanical Qubits
authors: Simon Rips, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: estimates for electric noise added, typos corrected, to appear in Phys Rev Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 120503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4456
abstract: We introduce an approach to quantum information processing where the information is stored in the motional degrees of freedom of nanomechanical devices. The qubits of our approach are formed by the two lowest energy levels of mechanical resonators which are tuned to be strongly anharmonic by suitable electrostatic fields. Single qubit rotations are conducted by radio frequency voltage pulses that are applied to individual resonators. Two qubit entangling gates in turn are implemented via a coupling of two qubits to a common optical resonance of a high finesse cavity. We find that gate fidelities exceeding 99% can be achieved for realistic experimental parameters.

id: 1211.4496
title: Efficient single-spatial-mode periodically-poled KTiOPO_4 waveguide source for high-dimensional entanglement-based quantum key distribution
authors: Tian Zhong, Franco N. C. Wong, Alessandro Restelli, Joshua C. Bienfang
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 20, 26868-26877 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4496
abstract: We demonstrate generation of high-purity photon pairs at 1560 nm in a single spatial mode from a periodically-poled KTiOPO_4 (PPKTP) waveguide. With nearly lossless spectral filtering, the PPKTP waveguide source shows approximately 80 % single-mode fiber coupling efficiency and is well suited for high-dimensional time-energy entanglement-based quantum key distribution. Using high-count-rate self-differencing InGaAs single-photon avalanche photodiodes configured with either square or sinusoidal gating, we achieve > 1 Mbit/s raw key generation with 3 bits-per-photon encoding, and, to the best of our knowledge, the highest reported Franson quantum-interference visibility of 98.2 % without subtraction of accidental coincidences.

id: 1211.4538
title: Local response of topological order to an external perturbation
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Lukasz Cincio, Siddhartha Santra, Paolo Zanardi, Luigi Amico
comments: updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 210602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4538
abstract: We study the behavior of the R\'enyi entropies for the toric code subject to a variety of different perturbations, by means of 2D density matrix renormalization group and analytical methods. We find that R\'enyi entropies of different index {\alpha} display derivatives with opposite sign, as opposed to typical symmetry breaking states, and can be detected on a very small subsystem regardless of the correlation length. This phenomenon is due to the presence in the phase of a point with flat entanglement spectrum, zero correlation length, and area law for the entanglement entropy. We argue that this kind of splitting is common to all the phases with a certain group theoretic structure, including quantum double models, cluster states, and other quantum spin liquids. The fact that the size of the subsystem does not need to scale with the correlation length makes it possible for this effect to be accessed experimentally.

id: 1211.4540
title: Quantum control of a spin qubit coupled to a photonic crystal cavity
authors: Samuel G. Carter, Timothy M. Sweeney, Mijin Kim, Chul Soo Kim, Dmitry Solenov, Sophia E. Economou, Thomas L. Reinecke, Lily Yang, Allan S. Bracker, Daniel Gammon
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 329 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4540
abstract: A key ingredient for a quantum network is an interface between stationary quantum bits and photons, which act as flying qubits for interactions and communication. Photonic crystal architectures are promising platforms for enhancing the coupling of light to solid state qubits. Quantum dots can be integrated into a photonic crystal, with optical transitions coupling to photons and spin states forming a long-lived quantum memory. Many researchers have now succeeded in coupling these emitters to photonic crystal cavities, but there have been no demonstrations of a functional spin qubit and quantum gates in this environment. Here we have developed a coupled cavity-quantum dot system in which the dot is controllably charged with a single electron. We perform the initialization, rotation and measurement of a single electron spin qubit using laser pulses and find that the cavity can significantly improve these processes.

id: 1211.4637
title: Gate-efficient discrete simulations of continuous-time quantum query algorithms
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Richard Cleve, Sevag Gharibian
comments: 28 pages, 2 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 14, 0001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4637
abstract: We show how to efficiently simulate continuous-time quantum query algorithms that run in time T in a manner that preserves the query complexity (within a polylogarithmic factor) while also incurring a small overhead cost in the total number of gates between queries. By small overhead, we mean T within a factor that is polylogarithmic in terms of T and a cost measure that reflects the cost of computing the driving Hamiltonian. This permits any continuous-time quantum algorithm based on an efficiently computable driving Hamiltonian to be converted into a gate-efficient algorithm with similar running time.

id: 1211.4639
title: Comment on "Note on the Analytical Solution of the Rabi Model"
authors: Andrzej J. Maciejewski, Maria Przybylska, Tomasz Stachowiak
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4639
abstract: We make several comments on "Note on the Analytical Solution of the Rabi Model" (arXiv:1210.4946).

id: 1211.4643
title: Mode-resolved Photon Counting via Cascaded Quantum Frequency Conversion
authors: Yu-Ping Huang, Prem Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4643
abstract: Resources for the manipulation and measurements of high-dimensional photonic signals are crucial for implementing qu$d$it-based applications. Here we propose potentially high-performance, chip-compatible devices for such purposes by exploiting quantum-frequency conversion in nonlinear optical media. Specifically, by using sum-frequency generation in a $\chi^{(2)}$ waveguide we show how mode-resolved photon counting can be accomplished for telecom-band photonic signals subtending multiple temporal modes. Our method is generally applicable to any nonlinear medium with arbitrary dispersion property.

id: 1211.4645
title: A Symmetrical Interpretation of the Klein-Gordon Equation
authors: Michael B. Heaney
comments: Revised version, accepted for publication in Foundations of Physics
journal: Foundations of Physics 43 (6), 733-746 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4645
abstract: This paper presents a new Symmetrical Interpretation (SI) of relativistic quantum mechanics which postulates: quantum mechanics is a theory about complete experiments, not particles; a complete experiment is maximally described by a complex transition amplitude density; and this transition amplitude density never collapses. This SI is compared to the Copenhagen Interpretation (CI) for the analysis of Einstein's bubble experiment. This SI makes several experimentally testable predictions that differ from the CI, solves one part of the measurement problem, resolves some inconsistencies of the CI, and gives intuitive explanations of some previously mysterious quantum effects.

id: 1211.4691
title: Quantum key distribution with realistic heralded single photon sources
authors: Mikolaj Lasota, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures, some references added, minor corrections
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 11, 1350034 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4691
abstract: We analyze theoretically performance of four-state quantum key distribution protocols implemented with a realistic heralded single-photon source. The analysis assumes a noisy model for the detector heralding generation of individual photons via spontaneous parametric down-conversion, including dark counts and imperfect photon number resolution. We identify characteristics of the heralding detector that defines the attainable cryptographic key rate and the maximum secure distance. Approximate analytical formulas are applied to multiplexed detection and compared with results of numerical calculations.

id: 1211.4738
title: Is Hardy's paradox a paradox?
authors: Y.Ben-Aryeh
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4738
abstract: In the present Note it is shown that Hardy thought experiment does not lead to any paradox and its explanation can be made by using quantum mechanical methods, without the need of weak measurements theories. The confusion arising about this thought experiment follows from ignoring the use of a projective measurement of the kind of knowledge. A certain comment about the realization of Hardy thought experiment with photons is made.

id: 1211.4751
title: Effective Field Theory Approach to Gravitationally Induced Decoherence
authors: M. P. Blencowe
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 021302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4751
abstract: Adopting the viewpoint that the standard perturbative quantization of general relativity provides an effective description of quantum gravity that is valid at ordinary energies, we show that gravity as an environment induces the rapid decoherence of stationary matter superposition states when the energy differences in the superposition exceed the Planck energy scale.

id: 1211.4774
title: Gaussian classical-quantum channels: gain of entanglement-assistance
authors: A. S. Holevo
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: Problems of information transmission, 2014, v. 50, 1-15
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4774
abstract: In the present paper we introduce and study Bosonic Gaussian classical-quantum (c-q) channels; the embedding of the classical input into quantum is always possible and therefore the classical entanglement-assisted capacity C_{ea} under appropriate input constraint is well defined. We prove a general property of entropy increase for weak complementary channel, that implies the equality C_{ea}=C (where C is the unassisted capacity) for certain class of c-q Gaussian channel under appropriate energy-type constraint. On the other hand, we show by explicit example that the inequality C<C_{ea} is not unusual for constrained c-q Gaussian channel.

id: 1211.4792
title: Comment on "Space-Time Crystals of Trapped Ions": And Yet it Moves Not !
authors: Patrick Bruno
comments: 1 page
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 029301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4792
abstract: A Comment on "Space-Time Crystals of Trapped ions", by Tongcang Li et al. (PRL 109, 163001 (2012); arXiv:1206.4772

id: 1211.4805
title: The power of quantum channels for creating quantum correlations
authors: Tahere Abad, Vahid Karimipour, Laleh Memarzadeh
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures, the version to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062316 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4805
abstract: Local noise can produce quantum correlations on an initially classically correlated state, provided that it is not represented by a unital or semi-classical channel \cite{DagmarBruss}. We find the power of any given local channel for producing quantum correlations on an initially classically correlated state. We introduce a computable measure for quantifying the quantum correlations in quantum-classical states, which is based on the non-commutativity of ensemble states in one party of the composite system. Using this measure we show that the amount of quantum correlations produced, is proportional to the classical correlations in the initial state. The power of an arbitrary channel for producing quantum correlations is found by averaging over all possible initial states. Finally we compare our measure with the geometrical measure of quantumness for a subclass of quantum-classical sates, for which we have been able to find a closed analytical expression.

id: 1211.4862
title: Planar squeezing by quantum non-demolition measurement in cold atomic ensembles
authors: Graciana Puentes, Giorgio Colangelo, Robert J. Sewell, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 103031 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4862
abstract: Planar squeezed states, i.e. quantum states which are squeezed in two orthogonal spin components, have recently attracted attention due to their applications in atomic interferometry and quantum information [Q. Y. He et al, New J. Phys. 14, 093012 (2012)]. While canonical variables such as quadratures of the radiation field can be squeezed in at most one component, simultaneous squeezing in two orthogonal spin components can be achieved due to the angular momentum commutation relations. We present a novel scheme for planar squeezing via quantum non-demolition (QND) measurements in spin-1 systems. The QND measurement is achieved via near-resonant paramagnetic Faraday rotation probing, and the planar squeezing is obtained by sequential QND measurement of two orthogonal spin components. We compute the achievable squeezing for a variety of optical depths, initial conditions, and probing strategies. The planar squeezed states generated in this way contain entanglement detectable by spin-squeezing inequalities and give an advantage relative to non-squeezed states for any precession phase angle, a benefit for single-shot and high-bandwidth magnetometry.

id: 1211.4908
title: Eigenvalues and Low Energy Eigenvectors of Quantum Many-Body Systems
authors: Ramis Movassagh
comments: PhD Thesis. 214 pages in MIT thesis format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4908
abstract: I first give an overview of the thesis and Matrix Product States (MPS) representation of quantum spin chains with an improvement on the conventional notation. The rest of this thesis is divided into two parts. The first part is devoted to eigenvalues of quantum many-body systems (QMBS). I introduce Isotropic Entanglement, which draws from various tools in random matrix theory and free probability theory (FPT) to accurately approximate the eigenvalue distribution of QMBS on a line with generic interactions. Next, I discuss the energy distribution of one particle hopping random Schr\"odinger operator in 1D from FPT in context of the Anderson model. The second part is devoted to ground states and gap of QMBS. I first give the necessary background on frustration free (FF) Hamiltonians, real and imaginary time evolution within MPS representation and a numerical implementation. I then prove the degeneracy and FF condition for quantum spin chains with generic local interactions, including corrections to our earlier assertions. I then summarize my efforts in proving lower bounds for the entanglement of the ground states, which includes some new results, with the hope that they inspire future work resulting in solving the conjecture given therein. Next I discuss two interesting measure zero examples where FF Hamiltonians are carefully constructed to give unique ground states with high entanglement. One of the examples (i.e., $d=4$) has not appeared elsewhere. In particular, we calculate the Schmidt numbers exactly, entanglement entropies and introduce a novel technique for calculating the gap which may be of independent interest. The last chapter elaborates on one of the measure zero examples (i.e., $d=3$) which is the first example of a FF translation-invariant spin-1 chain that has a unique highly entangled ground state and exhibits signatures of a critical behavior.

id: 1211.4910
title: Amplification and suppression of system-bath correlation effects in an open many-body system
authors: Adam Zaman Chaudhry, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 3 figures, 21 pages, under review (submitted for publication on Oct. 8, 2012)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012129 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4910
abstract: Understanding the rich dynamics of open quantum systems is of fundamental interest to quantum control and quantum information processing. By considering an open system of many identical two-level atoms interacting with a common bath, we show that effects of system-bath correlations are amplified in a many-body system via the generation of a short time scale inversely proportional to the number of atoms. Effects of system-bath correlations are therefore considerable even when each individual atom interacts with the bath weakly. We further show that correlation-induced dynamical effects may still be suppressed via the dynamical decoupling approach, but they present a challenge for quantum state protection as the number of atom increases.

id: 1211.4923
title: Quantum and classical correlations in high temperature dynamics of two coupled large spins
authors: V. E. Zobov
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, Corrected typos in formulas
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4923
abstract: We study dynamical correlations of two coupled large spins depending on the time and on the spin quantum numbers. In the high-temperature approximation, we obtain analytical expressions for the mutual informations, quantum and classical parts of correlations. The latter was obtained performing the non-orthogonal projective (POVM) measurements onto the spin coherent states of two spins or one spin, as well as by means of the orthogonal projective measurement of von Neumann. Contribution from quantum correlations is much less than that from classical ones and decreasing with the increase in spin quantum numbers at short times. However, it is not so in a time equal to half of the quantum period.

id: 1211.4926
title: The quantum dynamics of two coupled large spins
authors: V. E. Zobov
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, report for the International Symposium "Quantum Informatics-2009" (QI-2009), Zvenigorod, Moscow region, October 05-09, 2009
journal: Quantum Computers and Computing. V. 9, p. 3-10 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4926
abstract: We calculate the time evolution of mean spin components and the squared I-concurrence of two coupled large spins S. As the initial conditions we take two cases: spin coherent states and uniform superposition states. For the spin coherent states we have obtained the asymptotic for-mulas at S>>1 and t<<T (T is period). We draw a conclusion that quantum computation on qudits, represented by large spins, do not get the principal limitations on the spin number S.

id: 1211.4928
title: On the time-optimal implementation of quantum Fourier transform for qudits represented by quadrupole nucleus
authors: V. P. Shauro, V. E. Zobov
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, report for the International Symposium "Quantum Informatics-2012" (QI-2012), Zvenigorod, Moscow region, October 01-05, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4928
abstract: We consider the problem of time-optimal realization of the quantum Fourier transform gate for a single qudit with number of levels d from 3 to 8. As a qudit the quadrupole nucleus with spin I > 1/2 controlled by NMR is considered. We calculate the dependencies of the gate error on the duration of radio-frequency pulse obtained by numerical optimization using Krotov-based algorithm. It is shown that the dependences of minimum time of QFT gate implementation on qudit dimension are different for integer and half-integer spins.

id: 1211.4945
title: Product Formulas for Exponentials of Commutators
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Nathan Wiebe
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures. Revised to include discussion of existing approximation building methods and an improved version of the approximation building method of Jean and Koseleff has been added
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 062202 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4945
abstract: We provide a recursive method for constructing product formula approximations to exponentials of commutators, giving the first approximations that are accurate to arbitrarily high order. Using these formulas, we show how to approximate unitary exponentials of (possibly nested) commutators using exponentials of the elementary operators, and we upper bound the number of elementary exponentials needed to implement the desired operation within a given error tolerance. By presenting an algorithm for quantum search using evolution according to a commutator, we show that the scaling of the number of exponentials in our product formulas with the evolution time is nearly optimal. Finally, we discuss applications of our product formulas to quantum control and to implementing anticommutators, providing new methods for simulating many-body interaction Hamiltonians.

id: 1211.4950
title: Bragg-Scattering conversion at telecom wavelengths towards the photon counting regime
authors: Katarzyna Krupa, Alessandro Tonello, Victor V. Kozlov, Vincent Couderc, Philippe Di Bin, Stefan Wabnitz, Alain Barth¨¦l¨¦my, Laurent Labont¨¦, S¨¦bastien Tanzilli
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Express 20, 24 (2012) 27220-27225
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4950
abstract: We experimentally study Bragg-scattering four-wave mixing in a highly nonlinear fiber at telecom wavelengths using photon counters. We explore the polarization dependence of this process with a continuous wave signal in the macroscopic and attenuated regime, with a wavelength shift of 23 nm. Our measurements of mean photon numbers per second under various pump polarization configurations agree well with the theoretical and numerical predictions based on classical models. We discuss the impact of noise under these different polarization configurations.

id: 1211.4952
title: A discussion on the origin of quantum probabilities
authors: Federico Holik, Angel Plastino, Manuel S¨¢enz
comments: Improved version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4952
abstract: We study the origin of quantum probabilities as arising from non-boolean propositional-operational structures. We apply the method developed by Cox to non distributive lattices and develop an alternative formulation of non-Kolmogorvian probability measures for quantum mechanics. By generalizing the method presented in previous works, we outline a general framework for the deduction of probabilities in general propositional structures represented by lattices (including the non-distributive case).

id: 1211.4967
title: Informational completeness of continuous-variable measurements
authors: D. Sych, J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil, G. Leuchs, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4967
abstract: We justify that homodyne tomography turns out to be informationally complete when the number of independent quadrature measurements is equal to the dimension of the density matrix in the Fock representation. Using this as our thread, we examine the completeness of other schemes, when continuous-variable observations are truncated to discrete finite-dimensional subspaces.

id: 1211.4993
title: Exact and asymptotic computations of elementary spin networks: classification of the quantum-classical boundaries
authors: A. C. P. Bitencourt, A. Marzuoli, M. Ragni, R. W. Anderson, V. Aquilanti
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures. Talk presented at ICCSA 2012 (12th International Conference on Computational Science and Applications, Salvador de Bahia (Brazil) June 18-21, 2012)
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science 7333, Part I, pp 723-737 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4993
abstract: Increasing interest is being dedicated in the last few years to the issues of exact computations and asymptotics of spin networks. The large-entries regimes (semiclassical limits) occur in many areas of physics and chemistry, and in particular in discretization algorithms of applied quantum mechanics. Here we extend recent work on the basic building block of spin networks, namely the Wigner 6j symbol or Racah coefficient, enlightening the insight gained by exploiting its self-dual properties and studying it as a function of two (discrete) variables. This arises from its original definition as an (orthogonal) angular momentum recoupling matrix. Progress also derives from recognizing its role in the foundation of the modern theory of classical orthogonal polynomials, as extended to include discrete variables. Features of the imaging of various regimes of these orthonormal matrices are made explicit by computational advances -based on traditional and new recurrence relations- which allow an interpretation of the observed behaviors in terms of an underlying Hamiltonian formulation as well. This paper provides a contribution to the understanding of the transition between two extreme modes of the 6j, corresponding to the nearly classical and the fully quantum regimes, by studying the boundary lines (caustics) in the plane of the two matrix labels. This analysis marks the evolution of the turning points of relevance for the semiclassical regimes and puts on stage an unexpected key role of the Regge symmetries of the 6j.

id: 1211.5001
title: Robustness of dynamical decoupling sequences
authors: Mustafa Ahmed Ali Ahmed, Gonzalo A. ?lvarez, Dieter Suter
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042309 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5001
abstract: Active protection of quantum states is an essential prerequisite for the implementation of quantum computing. Dynamical decoupling (DD) is a promising approach that applies sequences of control pulses to the system in order to reduce the adverse effect of system-environment interactions. Since every hardware device has finite precision, the errors of the DD control pulses can themselves destroy the stored information rather than protect it. We experimentally compare the performance of different DD sequences in the presence of an environment that was chosen such that all relevant DD sequences can equally suppress its effect on the system. Under these conditions, the remaining decay of the qubits under DD allows us to compare very precisely the robustness of the different DD sequences with respect to imperfections of the control pulses.

id: 1211.5045
title: Deterministic Super Resolution with Coherent States at the Shot Noise Limit
authors: Emanuele Distante, Miroslav Jezek, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 033603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5045
abstract: Interference of light fields plays an important role in various high-precision measurement schemes. It has been shown that super resolving phase measurements beyond the standard coherent state limit can be obtained either by using maximally entangled multi-particle states of light or using complex detection approaches. Here we show that super resolving phase measurements at the shot noise limit can be achieved without resorting to non-classical optical states or to low-efficiency detection processes. Using robust coherent states of light, high-efficiency homodyne detection and a deterministic binarization processing technique, we show a narrowing of the interference fringes that scales with 1/Sqrt{N} where N is the mean number of photons of the coherent state. Experimentally we demonstrate a 12-fold narrowing at the shot noise limit.

id: 1211.5056
title: The Casimir effect: medium and geometry
authors: Valery N. Marachevsky
comments: 28 pages, 6 figures, dedicated to Stuart Dowker on his 75th anniversary
journal: J.Phys.A: Math.Theor. 45, 374021 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5056
abstract: Theory of the Casimir effect is presented in several examples. Casimir - Polder type formulas, Lifshitz theory and theory of the Casimir effect for two gratings separated by a vacuum slit are derived. Equations for the electromagnetic field in the presence of a medium and dispersion are discussed. Casimir effect for systems with a layer of 2+1 fermions is studied.

id: 1211.5059
title: Highly efficient heralding of entangled single photons
authors: Sven Ramelow, Alexandra Mech, Marissa Giustina, Simon Groeblacher, Witlef Wieczorek, Adriana Lita, Brice Calkins, Thomas Gerrits, Sae Woo Nam, Anton Zeilinger, Rupert Ursin
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Express 21, 6707-6717 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5059
abstract: Single photons are an important prerequisite for a broad spectrum of quantum optical applications. We experimentally demonstrate a heralded single-photon source based on spontaneous parametric down-conversion in collinear bulk optics, and fiber-coupled bolometric transition-edge sensors. Without correcting for background, losses, or detection inefficiencies, we measure an overall heralding efficiency of 83 %. By violating a Bell inequality, we confirm the single-photon character and high-quality entanglement of our heralded single photons which, in combination with the high heralding efficiency, are a necessary ingredient for advanced quantum communication protocols such as one-sided device-independent quantum key distribution.

id: 1211.5083
title: Quantum versus classical effects in two-photon speckle patterns
authors: Manutea Cand¨¦, Sergey E. Skipetrov
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures, revised text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013846 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5083
abstract: We discuss quantum and classical aspects of two-photon interference in light transmission through disordered media. We show that disorder is the main factor that suppresses the interference, whatever the quantum state of the incident light. Secondarily, the two-photon interference is affected by the quantum nature of light (i.e., the well-defined number of photons in the two-photon entangled and Fock states as compared to the coherent state). And finally, entanglement is a resource that allows to prepare two-photon states with special symmetries with respect to the interchange of the photons and, in particular, the states with bosonic and fermionic symmetries. The two-photon interference is more robust for the latter states and its sign can be inverted for the fermionic state.

id: 1211.5097
title: Testing genuine multipartite nonlocality in phase space
authors: Seung-Woo Lee, Mauro Paternostro, Jinhyoung Lee, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5097
abstract: We demonstrate genuine three-mode nonlocality based on phase space formalism. A Svetlichny-type Bell inequality is formulated in terms of the $s$-parameterized quasiprobability function. We test such tool using exemplary forms of three-mode entangled states, identifying the ideal measurement settings required for each state. We thus verify the presence of genuine three-mode nonlocality that cannot be reproduced by local or nonlocal hidden variable models between any two out of three modes. In our results, GHZ- and W-type nonlocality can be fully discriminated. We also study the behavior of genuine tripartite nonlocality under the effects of detection inefficiency and dissipation induced by local thermal environments. Our formalism can be useful to test the sharing of genuine multipartite quantum correlations among the elements of some interesting physical settings, including arrays of trapped ions and intracavity ultracold atoms.

id: 1211.5134
title: Intrinsic Dynamical Fluctuation Assisted Symmetry Breaking in Adiabatic Following
authors: Qi Zhang, Jiangbin Gong, C. H. Oh
comments: 5 figures, 6 pages, under review (submitted for publication on Sep. 6, 2012)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110,130402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5134
abstract: Classical adiabatic invariants in actual adiabatic processes possess intrinsic dynamical fluctuations. The magnitude of such intrinsic fluctuations is often thought to be negligible. This widely believed physical picture is contested here. For adiabatic following of a moving stable fixed-point solution facing a pitchfork bifurcation, we show that intrinsic dynamical fluctuations in an adiabatic process can assist in a deterministic and robust selection between two symmetry-connected fixed-point solutions, irrespective of the rate of change of adiabatic parameters. Using a classical model Hamiltonian also relevant to a two-mode quantum system, we further demonstrate the formation of an adiabatic hysteresis loop in purely Hamiltonian mechanics and the generation of a Berry phase via changing one single-valued parameter only.

id: 1211.5186
title: Spectral Analysis and Identification of Noises in Quantum Systems
authors: Re-Bing Wu, Tie-Fu Li, A. G. Kofman, Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu, Yu.A. Pashkin, Jaw-Shen Tsai, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5186
abstract: In quantum information processing, knowledge of the noise in the system is crucial for high-precision manipulation and tomography of coherent quantum operations. Existing strategies for identifying this noise require the use of additional quantum devices or control pulses. We present a noise-identification method directly based on the system's non-Markovian response of an ensemble measurement to the noise. The noise spectrum is identified by reversing the response relationship in the frequency domain. For illustration, the method is applied to superconducting charge qubits, but it is equally applicable to any type of qubits. We find that the identification strategy recovers the well-known Fermi's golden rule under the lowest-order perturbation approximation, which corresponds to the Markovian limit when the measurement time is much longer than the noise correlation time. Beyond such approximation, it is possible to further improve the precision at the so-called optimal point by incorporating the transient response data in the non-Markovian regime. This method is verified with experimental data from coherent oscillations in a superconducting charge qubit.

id: 1211.5201
title: All unitaries having operator Schmidt rank 2 are controlled unitaries
authors: Scott M. Cohen, Li Yu
comments: Comments welcome
journal: Physical Review A 87, 022329 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5201
abstract: We prove that every unitary acting on any multipartite system and having operator Schmidt rank equal to 2 can be diagonalized by local unitaries. This then implies that every such multipartite unitary is locally equivalent to a controlled unitary with every party but one controlling a set of unitaries on the last party. We also prove that any bipartite unitary of Schmidt rank 2 is locally equivalent to a controlled unitary where either party can be chosen as the control, and at least one party can control with two terms, which implies that each such unitary can be implemented using local operations and classical communication (LOCC) and a maximally entangled state on two qubits. These results hold regardless of the dimensions of the systems on which the unitary acts.

id: 1211.5261
title: Spatially extended Unruh-DeWitt detectors for relativistic quantum information
authors: Antony R. Lee, Ivette Fuentes
comments: Revised for publication, 9 pages (+1 references page), 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 89, 085041 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5261
abstract: Unruh-DeWitt detectors interacting locally with a quantum field are systems under consideration for relativistic quantum information processing. In most works, the detectors are assumed to be point-like and, therefore, couple with the same strength to all modes of the field spectrum. We propose the use of a more realistic detector model where the detector has a finite size conveniently tailored by a spatial profile. We design a spatial profile such that the detector, when inertial, naturally couples to a peaked distribution of Minkowski modes. In the uniformly accelerated case, the detector couples to a peaked distribution of Rindler modes. Such distributions are of special interest in the analysis of entanglement in non-inetial frames. We use our detector model to show the noise detected in the Minkowski vacuum and in single particle states is a function of the detector's acceleration.

id: 1211.5302
title: Dissipative and stochastic geometric phase of a qubit within a canonical Langevin framework
authors: Pedro Bargue?o, S. Miret-Art¨¦s
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012125 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5302
abstract: Dissipative and stochastic effects in the geometric phase of a qubit are taken into account using a geometrical description of the corresponding open--system dynamics within a canonical Langevin framework based on a Caldeira--Leggett like Hamiltonian. By extending the Hopf fibration $S^{3}\to S^{2}$ to include such effects, the exact geometric phase for a dissipative qubit is obtained, whereas numerical calculations are used to include finite temperature effects on it.

id: 1211.5395
title: Enhancing non-classicality in mechanical systems
authors: Jie Li, Simon Groeblacher, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX4; v2: replaced with version accepted in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 033023 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5395
abstract: We study the effects of post-selection measurements on both the non-classicality of the state of a mechanical oscillator and the entanglement between two mechanical systems that are part of a distributed optomechanical network. We address the cases of both Gaussian and non-Gaussian measurements, identifying the values of the parameters for which simple photon-counting and Geiger-like measurements are effective in distilling a strongly non-classical mechanical state and enhancing the purely mechanical entanglement between two elements of the network.

id: 1211.5417
title: J-matrix method of scattering for potentials with inverse square singularity: The real representation
authors: A. D. Alhaidari, H. Bahlouli, S. Al-Marzoug, M. S. Abdelmonem
comments: 14 pages, two figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Scr. 90, 055205 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5417
abstract: The J-matrix method was developed to handle regular short-range scattering potentials. Its accuracy, stability, and convergence properties compare favorably with other successful scattering methods. Recently, we extended the method to the treatment of potentials with 1/r singularity. In this work, we do the same for 1/r^2 singular potentials.

id: 1211.5438
title: A Parabolic Model for the Dimple Potentials
authors: Melike ??b?k Ayd?n, Haydar Uncu, Co?kun Deniz
comments: 22 pages, 5 Figures, 2 Tables
journal: M.C. Aydin et.al., Physica Scripta, Vol:88, Issues:3, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5438
abstract: We study truncated parabolic function and demonstrate that it is a representation of the Dirac delta function. We also show that the truncated parabolic function, used as a potential in the Schr\"{o}dinger equation, has the same bound state spectrum, tunneling and reflection amplitudes with the Dirac delta potential as the width of the parabola approximates to zero. Dirac delta potential is used to model dimple potentials which are utilized to increase the phase-space density of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a harmonic trap. We show that harmonic trap with a delta function at the origin is a limit case of the harmonic trap with a symmetric truncated parabolic potential around the origin. Therefore, we propose that the truncated parabolic potential is a better candidate for modeling the dimple potentials.

id: 1211.5445
title: Dark states of a moving mirror in the single-photon strong-coupling regime
authors: Gao-Feng Xu, C. K. Law
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5445
abstract: We investigate an optomechanical system in which a cavity with a moving mirror is driven by two external fields. When the field frequencies match resonance conditions, we show that there exists a class of dark states of the moving mirror in the single-photon strong-coupling regime. These dark states, which cause the cavity to be decoupled from the external fields, is a manifestation of quantum coherence associated with the mirror's mechanical degrees of freedom. We discuss the properties of the dark states and indicate how they can be generated by optical pumping due to the decay of cavity field.

id: 1211.5483
title: Continuous-variable entanglement distillation and non-commutative central limit theorems
authors: Earl T. Campbell, Marco G. Genoni, Jens Eisert
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042330 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5483
abstract: Entanglement distillation transforms weakly entangled noisy states into highly entangled states, a primitive to be used in quantum repeater schemes and other protocols designed for quantum communication and key distribution. In this work, we present a comprehensive framework for continuous-variable entanglement distillation schemes that convert noisy non-Gaussian states into Gaussian ones in many iterations of the protocol. Instances of these protocols include (a) the recursive-Gaussifier protocol, (b) the temporally-reordered recursive-Gaussifier protocol, and (c) the pumping-Gaussifier protocol. The flexibility of these protocols give rise to several beneficial trade-offs related to success probabilities or memory requirements, which that can be adjusted to reflect experimental demands. Despite these protocols involving measurements, we relate the convergence in this protocols to new instances of non-commutative central limit theorems, in a formalism that we lay out in great detail. Implications of the findings for quantum repeater schemes are discussed.

id: 1211.5490
title: Experimental creation and analysis of displaced number states
authors: F. Ziesel, T. Ruster, A. Walther, H. Kaufmann, K. Singer, F. Schmidt-Kaler, U. G. Poschinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5490
abstract: We create displaced number states, which are nonclassical generalizations of coherent states, of a vibrational mode of a single trapped ion.

id: 1211.5554
title: Quantum Hypergraph States
authors: M. Rossi, M. Huber, D. Bru?, C. Macchiavello
comments: 9+5 pages, 5 figures, 1 table, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 113022 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5554
abstract: We introduce a class of multiqubit quantum states which generalizes graph states. These states correspond to an underlying mathematical hypergraph, i.e. a graph where edges connecting more than two vertices are considered. We derive a generalised stabilizer formalism to describe this class of states. We introduce the notion of k-uniformity and show that this gives rise to classes of states which are inequivalent under the action of the local Pauli group. Finally we disclose a one-to-one correspondence with states employed in quantum algorithms, such as Deutsch-Jozsa's and Grover's.

id: 1211.5563
title: Relativistic Quantum Teleportation with Superconducting Circuits
authors: Nicolai Friis, Antony R. Lee, Kevin Truong, Carlos Sab¨ªn, Enrique Solano, G?ran Johansson, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, minor deviations from published version. I.F. previously published as Ivette Fuentes-Guridi and Ivette Fuentes-Schuller
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 113602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5563
abstract: We study the effects of relativistic motion on quantum teleportation and propose a realizable experiment where our results can be tested. We compute bounds on the optimal fidelity of teleportation when one of the observers undergoes non-uniform motion for a finite time. The upper bound to the optimal fidelity is degraded due to the observer's motion however, we discuss how this degradation can be corrected. These effects are observable for experimental parameters that are within reach of cutting-edge superconducting technology. Our setup will further provide guidance for future space-based experiments.

id: 1211.5571
title: Coupling an electron spin in a semiconductor quantum dot to an optical nano-cavity
authors: Arka Majumdar, Per Kaer, Michal Bajcsy, Erik D. Kim, Konstantinos G. Lagoudakis, Armand Rundquist, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 027402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5571
abstract: We propose a scheme to efficiently couple a single quantum dot electron spin to an optical nano-cavity, which enables us to simultaneously benefit from a cavity as an efficient photonic interface, as well as to perform high fidelity (nearly 100%) spin initialization and manipulation achievable in bulk semiconductors. Moreover, the presence of the cavity speeds up the spin initialization process beyond GHz.

id: 1211.5592
title: Two-photon spectra of quantum emitters
authors: A. Gonzalez-Tudela, F. P. Laussy, C. Tejedor, M. J. Hartmann, E. del Valle
comments: 27 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 033036 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5592
abstract: We apply our recently developed theory of frequency-filtered and time-resolved N-photon correlations to study the two-photon spectra of a variety of systems of increasing complexity: single mode emitters with two limiting statistics (one harmonic oscillator or a two-level system) and the various combinations that arise from their coupling. We consider both the linear and nonlinear regimes under incoherent excitation. We find that even the simplest systems display a rich dynamics of emission, not accessible by simple single photon spectroscopy. In the strong coupling regime, novel two-photon emission processes involving virtual states are revealed. Furthermore, two general results are unraveled by two-photon correlations with narrow linewidth detectors: i) filtering induced bunching and ii) breakdown of the semi-classical theory. We show how to overcome this shortcoming in a fully-quantized picture.

id: 1211.5597
title: Effects on the Non-Relativistic Dynamics of a Charged Particle Interacting with a Chern-Simons Potential
authors: F. Caruso, J. A. Helay?l-Neto, J. Martins, V. Oguri
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B (2013) 86: 324
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5597
abstract: The hydrogen atom in two dimensions, described by a Schr\"odinger equation with a Chern-Simons potential, is numerically solved. Both its wave functions and eigenvalues were determined for small values of the principal quantum number $n$. The only possible states correspond to $l=0$. How the result depends on the topological mass of the photon is also discussed. In the case $n=1$, the energy of the fundamental state corresponding to different choice for the photon mass scale are found to be comprehended in the interval $-3,5 \times 10^{-3} eV \leq E \leq -9,0 \times 10^{-2} eV$, corresponding to a mean radius of the electron in the range $ (5.637 \pm 0.005) \times 10^{-8}$~cm $\leq <r> \leq (48.87 \pm 0.03) \times 10^{-8}$~cm. In any case, the planar atom is found to be very weekly bounded showing some features similar to the Rydberg atoms in three dimensions with a Coulombian interaction.

id: 1211.5632
title: Modified Kubo formula with a complex force term for weak measurement
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: v1: 11 pages, 1 figure; v2: focus and title changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5632
abstract: In a seminal work, Aharonov, Albert, and Vaidman showed that by having a weak interaction between a system and a detecting apparatus, the average output of the latter could be much larger than the maximum eigenvalue of the observed quantity (times the amplification factor). This does not always happen, however: the observed system must subsequently undergo a second measurement, on the output of which the result of the first one is conditioned. This procedure is known as postselection. On the other hand, linear response theory describes how the observables of a quan- tum system change upon perturbation by a weak classical external force. In a measurement, the measured system applies a generalized force to the measuring apparatus, leading to an observable change in the latter. It appears natural, then, to unify the treatment of weak measurements with an extended version of linear response theory that accounts for a force introduced by an external quantum system. Here, we show how the postselection introduces a complex force term and we provide a modified Kubo formula working in the non-linear regime.

id: 1211.5654
title: Effects of Quantum Error Correction on Entanglement Sudden Death
authors: Muhammed Y?na?, J. H. Eberly
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures; references added; journal reference added
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 14, No. 1&2 (2014) 0039-0055
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5654
abstract: We investigate the effects of error correction on non-local quantum coherence as a function of time, extending the study by Sainz and Bj\"ork. We consider error correction of amplitude damping, pure phase damping and combinations of amplitude and phase damping as they affect both fidelity and quantum entanglement. Initial two-qubit entanglement is encoded in arbitrary real superpositions of both \Phi-type and \Psi-type Bell states. Our main focus is on the possibility of delay or prevention of ESD (early stage decoherence, or entanglement sudden death). We obtain the onset times for ESD as a function of the state-superposition mixing angle. Error correction affects entanglement and fidelity differently, and we exhibit initial entangled states for which error correction increases fidelity but decreases entanglement, and vice versa.

id: 1211.5660
title: Self-organization of atoms along a nanophotonic waveguide
authors: D.E. Chang, J.I. Cirac, H.J. Kimble
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5660
abstract: Atoms coupled to nanophotonic interfaces represent an exciting frontier for the investigation of quantum light-matter interactions. While most work has considered the interaction between statically positioned atoms and light, here we demonstrate that a wealth of phenomena can arise from the self-consistent interaction between atomic internal states, optical scattering, and atomic forces. We consider in detail the case of atoms coupled to a one-dimensional nanophotonic waveguide, and show that this interplay gives rise to self-organization of atomic positions along the waveguide, which can be probed experimentally through distinct characteristics of the reflection and transmission spectra.

id: 1211.5665
title: Markovian Master Equation and Thermodynamics of Two-level System in Strong Laser Field
authors: K. Szczygielski, D. Gelbwaser-Klimovsky, R. Alicki
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, title and order of authors changed, minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. E87, 012120 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5665
abstract: The recently developed technique combining the weak coupling limit with the Floquet formalism is applied to a model of two-level atom driven by a strong laser field and weakly coupled to heat baths. Firstly, the case of a single electromagnetic bath at zero temperature is discussed and the formula for resonance fluorescence is derived. The expression describes the well-known Mollow triplet, but its details differ from the standard ones based on additional simplifying assumptions. The second example describes the case of two thermal reservoirs: an electromagnetic one at finite temperature and the second dephasing one, which can be realized as a phononic or buffer gas reservoir. It is shown using the developed thermodynamical approach that the latter system can work in two regimes depending on the detuning sign: a heat pump transporting heat from the dephasing reservoir to an electromagnetic bath or can heat both, always at the expense of work supplied by the laser field.

id: 1211.5675
title: Exposedness of Choi type entanglement witnesses and applications to lengths of separable states
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 15 pages, minor revision
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics, Vol.20, No.4 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5675
abstract: We present a large class of indecomposable exposed positive linear maps between three dimensional matrix algebras. We also construct two qutrit separable states with lengths ten in the interior of their dual faces. With these examples, we show that the length of a separable state may decrease strictly when we mix it with another separable state.

id: 1211.5676
title: Universality of Entanglement Creation in Low-Energy Two-Dimensional Scattering
authors: Ricardo Weder
comments: Published version. It has been edited. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1109.4005
journal: Annals of Physics vol 337 (2013) 94-110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5676
abstract: We prove that the entanglement created in the low-energy scattering of two particles in two dimensions is given by a universal coefficient that is independent of the interaction potential. This is strikingly different from the three dimensional case, where it is proportional to the total scattering cross section. Before the collision the state is a product of two normalized Gaussians. We take the purity as the measure of the entanglement after the scattering. We give a rigorous computation, with error bound, of the leading order of the purity at low-energy. For a large class of potentials, that are not assumed to be spherically symmetric, we prove that the low-energy behaviour of the purity, $\mathcal P$, is universal. It is given by $\mathcal P= 1- \frac{1}{(\ln (\sigma/\hbar))^2} \mathcal E$, where $\sigma$ is the variance of the Gaussians and the entanglement coefficient, $\mathcal E$, depends only on the masses of the particles and not on the interaction potential. The entanglement depends strongly in the difference of the masses. It takes its minimum when the masses are equal, and it increases rapidly with the difference of the masses.

id: 1211.5679
title: Uncertainty principle certifies genuine source of intrinsic randomness
authors: Trina Chakraborty, Manik Banik, Pinaki Patra
comments: Accepted in Quantum Info. Process
journal: Quantum Inf Process 13, 839-848 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5679
abstract: The Born's rule introduces intrinsic randomness to the outcomes of a measurement performed on a quantum mechanical system. But, if the system is prepared in the eigenstate of an observable then the measurement outcome of that observable is completely predictable and hence there is no intrinsic randomness. On the other hand, if two incompatible observables are measured (either sequentially on a particle or simultaneously on two identical copies of the particle) then uncertainty principle guarantees intrinsic randomness in the subsequent outcomes independent of the preparation state of the system. In this article we show that this is true not only in quantum mechanics but for any no-signaling probabilistic theory. Also the minimum amount of intrinsic randomness that can be guaranteed for arbitrarily prepared state of the system is quantified by the amount of (un)certainty.

id: 1211.5725
title: Realignment Entanglement Criterion for Continuous Bipartite Symmetric Quantum States
authors: Xiao-yu Chen, Li-zhen Jiang, Ping Yu, Mingzhen Tian
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012332 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5725
abstract: The separability of bipartite non-Gaussian states is studied by applying the realignment criterion with the technique of functional analysis. The realignment criterion is given as one inequality in contrast to the infinitive number of inequalities based on the moments. We give the necessary and sufficient condition of inseparability for non-Gaussian states prepared by photon subtraction or addition from symmetric Gaussian states. The entanglement criterion of non-Gaussian states evolved in thermal noise and amplitude damping environment is also obtained.

id: 1211.5788
title: Deterministic generation of Gaussian pure state in quasi-local dissipative system
authors: Yusuke Ikeda, Naoki Yamamoto
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 033802 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5788
abstract: This paper shows that an arbitrary Gaussian pure state can be deterministically generated in a dissipative open system that has quasi-local interactions between the subsystems and couples to surrounding environment in a local manner. A quasi-local interaction, which means that the interaction occurs among only a few subsystems, is a crucial requirement for practical engineering of a dissipative system. The key idea is that, first, an auxiliary system having local interaction with environment is prepared, and then that auxiliary system is coupled to the underlying target system via a set of two-body Hamiltonians in such a way that a desired pure state is generated. Moreover, we show that, even with a simple single-mode auxiliary system, deterministic generation of an arbitrary approximate Gaussian cluster state is possible, by devising an appropriate switching scheme. Lastly, we discuss in a specific example how much a dissipation-induced pure Gaussian state can be perturbed by decoherence and parameter error.

id: 1211.5794
title: The Nature of Quantum States Created by One Photon Absorption: Pulsed Coherent vs. Pulsed Incoherent Light
authors: Alex C. Han, Moshe Shapiro, Paul Brumer
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5794
abstract: We analyze electronically excited nuclear wave functions and their coherence when subjecting a molecule to the action of natural, pulsed incoherent solar-like light, and to that of ultrashort coherent light assumed to have the same center frequencies and spectral bandwidths. Specifically, we compute the spatio-temporal dependence of the excited wave packets and their electronic coherence for these two types of light sources, on different electronic potential energy surfaces. The resultant excited state wave functions are shown to be qualitatively different, reflecting the light source from which they originated. In addition, electronic coherence is found to decay significantly faster for incoherent light than for coherent ultrafast excitation, for both continuum and bound wave packets. These results confirm that the dynamics observed in studies using ultrashort coherent pulses are not relevant to naturally occurring solar-induced processes such as photosynthesis and vision.

id: 1211.5801
title: Bulk Nuclear Polarization Enhanced at Room-Temperature by Optical Pumping
authors: Ran Fischer, Christian O. Bretschneider, Paz London, Dmitry Budker, David Gershoni, Lucio Frydman
comments: Main text: 6 pages, 3 figures. Supplementary: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 057601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5801
abstract: Bulk 13C polarization can be strongly enhanced in diamond at room-temperature based on the optical pumping of nitrogen-vacancy color centers. This effect was confirmed by irradiating suitably aligned single-crystals at a ~50 mT field promoting anti-crossings between electronic excited-state levels, followed by shuttling of the sample into a custom-built NMR setup and by subsequent 13C detection. A nuclear polarization of ~0.5% - equivalent to the 13C polarization achievable by thermal polarization at room temperature at fields of ~2000 T - was measured, and its bulk nature determined based on line shape and relaxation measurements. Positive and negative enhanced polarizations were obtained, with a generally complex but predictable dependence on the magnetic field during optical pumping. Owing to its simplicity, this 13C room-temperature polarizing strategy provides a promising new addition to existing nuclear hyperpolarization techniques.

id: 1211.5825
title: Basic exclusivity graphs in quantum correlations
authors: Adan Cabello, Lars Eirik Danielsen, Antonio J. Lopez-Tarrida, Jose R. Portillo
comments: REVTeX4, 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88 (2013) 032104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5825
abstract: A fundamental problem is to understand why quantum theory only violates some noncontextuality (NC) inequalities and identify the physical principles that prevent higher-than-quantum violations. We prove that quantum theory only violates those NC inequalities whose exclusivity graphs contain, as induced subgraphs, odd cycles of length five or more, and/or their complements. In addition, we show that odd cycles are the exclusivity graphs of a well-known family of NC inequalities and that there is also a family of NC inequalities whose exclusivity graphs are the complements of odd cycles. We characterize the maximum noncontextual and quantum values of these inequalities, and provide evidence supporting the conjecture that the maximum quantum violation of these inequalities is exactly singled out by the exclusivity principle.

id: 1211.5826
title: Entanglement Criterion for Coherent Subtraction and Coherent Addition Bipartite Continuous variable States
authors: Li-zhen Jiang, Xiao-yu Chen, Tian-yu Ye, Fang-yu Hong
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5826
abstract: Photon subtraction and addition are experimental means of generating non-Gaussian states from Gaussian states. Coherent subtraction or addition is a combination of photon subtractions or additions. The resultant states are quite general non-Gaussian states. The states can be photon number entangled states with arbitrary coefficients. We derive the entanglement conditions for several classes of coherent subtraction or coherent addition bipartite continuous variable states. One of the entanglement conditions is necessary and sufficient.

id: 1211.5907
title: Decoherence effect on quantum correlation and entanglement in a two-qubit spin chain
authors: Mohammad Reza Pourkarimi, Majid Rahnama, Hossein Rooholamini
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5907
abstract: Assuming a two-qubit system in Werner state which evolves in Heisenberg XY model with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) interaction under the effect of different environments. We evaluate and compare quantum entanglement, quantum and classical correlation measures. It is shown that in the absence of decoherence effects, there is a critical value of DM interaction for which entanglement may vanish while quantum and classical correlations do not. In the presence of environment the behavior of correlations depends on the kind of system-environment interaction. Correlations can be sustained by manipulating Hamiltonian anisotropic-parameter in a dissipative environment. Quantum and classical correlations are more stable than entanglement generally.

id: 1211.5913
title: Signatures of non-Markovianity in classical single-time probability distributions
authors: Andrea Smirne, Alberto Stabile, Bassano Vacchini
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Physica Scripta T: Proceedings of 19th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (Romania, May 2012)
journal: Phys. Scr. T153, 014057 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5913
abstract: We show that the Kolmogorov distance allows to quantify memory effects in classical stochastic processes by studying the evolution of the single-time probability distribution. We further investigate the relation between the Kolmogorov distance and other sufficient but not necessary signatures of non-Markovianity within the classical setting.

id: 1211.5921
title: Device-Independent Randomness Generation in the Presence of Weak Cross-Talk
authors: Jonathan Silman, Stefano Pironio, Serge Massar
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 100504 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5921
abstract: Device-independent protocols use nonlocality to certify that they are performing properly. This is achieved via Bell experiments on entangled quantum systems, which are kept isolated from one another during the measurements. However, with present-day technology, perfect isolation comes at the price of experimental complexity and extremely low data rates. Here we argue that for device-independent randomness generation -- and other device-independent protocols where the devices are in the same lab -- we can slightly relax the requirement of perfect isolation, and still retain most of the advantages of the device-independent approach, by allowing a little cross-talk between the devices. This opens up the possibility of using existent experimental systems with high data rates, such as Josephson phase qubits on the same chip, thereby bringing device-independent randomness generation much closer to practical application.

id: 1211.5922
title: A high-rate source for single photons in a pure quantum state
authors: Christoph Kurz, Jan Huwer, Michael Schug, Philipp M¨¹ller, J¨¹rgen Eschner
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 055005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5922
abstract: We report on the efficient generation of single photons, making use of spontaneous Raman scattering in a single trapped ion. The photons are collected through in-vacuum high-NA objectives. Photon frequency, polarization and temporal shape are controlled through appropriate laser parameters, allowing for photons in a pure quantum state.

id: 1211.5927
title: Optimal quantum communication using multiparticle partially entangled states
authors: Atul Kumar, Satyabrata Adhikari, Subhashish Banerjee, Sovik Roy
comments: arXiv admin note: According to this http URL "This article should be considered withdrawn from publication. Although the paper shows that maximal slice (MS) states are not locally equivalent to the \chi states, it fails to reference and discuss the closely related material presented in the following article: T. Gao, F. L. Yan, and Y. C. Li, Europhys. Lett. 84, 5001 (2008). The article also makes extensive use of a preprint by Dr. A. Kumar, Dr. A. Kalchenko, and Dr. S. Ghose. Although the article acknowledges S. Ghose, Dr. Ghose and Dr. A. Kaltchenko are not included as authors. Although Drs. Adhikari, Banerjee, and Roy did not know about the preprint, Drs. Kumar, Adhikari, Banerjee, and Roy, together with Physical Review A, apologize to both Drs. Ghose and Kaltchenko, and also to Dr. Gao and his coauthors for these omissions"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5927
abstract: Administratively withdrawn.

id: 1211.6004
title: Spin squeezing and entanglement via finite-dimensional discrete phase-space description
authors: Marcelo A. Marchiolli, Di¨®genes Galetti, Tiago Debarba
comments: 36 pages, 8 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. 11, 1330001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6004
abstract: We show how mapping techniques inherent to $N^{2}$-dimensional discrete phase spaces can be used to treat a wide family of spin systems which exhibits squeezing and entanglement effects. This algebraic framework is then applied to the modified Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick (LMG) model in order to obtain the time evolution of certain special parameters related to the Robertson-Schr\"{o}dinger (RS) uncertainty principle and some particular proposals of entanglement measure based on collective angular-momentum generators. Our results reinforce the connection between both the squeezing and entanglement effects, as well as allow to investigate the basic role of spin correlations through the discrete representatives of quasiprobability distribution functions. Entropy functionals are also discussed in this context. The main sequence correlations -> entanglement -> squeezing of quantum effects embraces a new set of insights and interpretations in this framework, which represents an effective gain for future researches in different spin systems.

id: 1211.6056
title: Nonsymmetrized Correlations in Quantum Noninvasive Measurements
authors: Adam Bednorz, Christoph Bruder, Bertrand Reulet, Wolfgang Belzig
comments: 5+2 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 250404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6056
abstract: A long-standing problem in quantum mesoscopic physics is which operator order corresponds to noise expressions like <I(-\omega)I(\omega)>, where I(\omega) is the measured current at frequency \omega. Symmetrized order describes a classical measurement while nonsymmetrized order corresponds to a quantum detector, e.g., one sensitive to either emission or absorption of photons. We show that both order schemes can be embedded in quantum weak-measurement theory taking into account measurements with memory, characterized by a memory function which is independent of a particular experimental detection scheme. We discuss the resulting quasiprobabilities for different detector temperatures and how their negativity can be tested on the level of second-order correlation functions already. Experimentally, this negativity can be related to the squeezing of the many-body state of the transported electrons in an ac-driven tunnel junction.

id: 1211.6120
title: Two-message quantum interactive proofs and the quantum separability problem
authors: Patrick Hayden, Kevin Milner, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 34 pages, 6 figures; v2: technical improvements and new result for the multipartite quantum separability problem; v3: minor changes to address referee comments, accepted for presentation at the 2013 IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity; v4: changed problem names; v5: updated references and added a paragraph to the conclusion to connect with prior work on separability testing
journal: Proceedings of the 28th IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity, pages 156-167, Palo Alto, California, June 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6120
abstract: Suppose that a polynomial-time mixed-state quantum circuit, described as a sequence of local unitary interactions followed by a partial trace, generates a quantum state shared between two parties. One might then wonder, does this quantum circuit produce a state that is separable or entangled? Here, we give evidence that it is computationally hard to decide the answer to this question, even if one has access to the power of quantum computation. We begin by exhibiting a two-message quantum interactive proof system that can decide the answer to a promise version of the question. We then prove that the promise problem is hard for the class of promise problems with "quantum statistical zero knowledge" (QSZK) proof systems by demonstrating a polynomial-time Karp reduction from the QSZK-complete promise problem "quantum state distinguishability" to our quantum separability problem. By exploiting Knill's efficient encoding of a matrix description of a state into a description of a circuit to generate the state, we can show that our promise problem is NP-hard with respect to Cook reductions. Thus, the quantum separability problem (as phrased above) constitutes the first nontrivial promise problem decidable by a two-message quantum interactive proof system while being hard for both NP and QSZK. We also consider a variant of the problem, in which a given polynomial-time mixed-state quantum circuit accepts a quantum state as input, and the question is to decide if there is an input to this circuit which makes its output separable across some bipartite cut. We prove that this problem is a complete promise problem for the class QIP of problems decidable by quantum interactive proof systems. Finally, we show that a two-message quantum interactive proof system can also decide a multipartite generalization of the quantum separability problem.

id: 1211.6178
title: Topological Basis Associated with BWMA, Extremes of L1-norm in Quantum Information and Applications in Physics
authors: Qing Zhao, Ruo-Yang Zhang, Kang Xue, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 38 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6178
abstract: The topological basis associated with Birman-Wenzl-Murakami algebra (BWMA) is constructed and the three dimensional forms of braiding matrices S have been found for both $S^+=S$ and $S^+=S^{-1}$. A familiar spin-1 model related to braiding matrix associated with BWMA is discussed. The extreme points $(\theta=\pm\pi/2$ and $\pm\pi)$ of L1-norm and von Neumann entropy are shown to be connected to each other. Through the general discussion and examples we then point out that the L1-norm describes quantum entanglement.

id: 1211.6308
title: Dynamical paths and universality in continuous variables open systems
authors: Andrea Cazzaniga, Sabrina Maniscalco, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, improved pictures and format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6308
abstract: We address the dynamics of quantum correlations in continuous variable open systems and analyze the evolution of bipartite Gaussian states in independent noisy channels. In particular, upon introducing the notion of dynamical path through a suitable parametrization for symmetric states, we focus attention on phenomena that are common to Markovian and non-Markovian Gaussian maps under the assumptions of weak coupling and secular approximation. We found that the dynamical paths in the parameter space are universal, that is they do depend only on the initial state and on the effective temperature of the environment, with non Markovianity that manifests itself in the velocity of running over a given path. This phenomenon allows one to map non-Markovian processes onto Markovian ones and it may reduce the number of parameters needed to study a dynamical process, e.g. it may be exploited to build constants of motions valid for both Markovian and non-Markovian maps. Universality is also observed in the value of Gaussian discord at the separability threshold, which itself is a function of the sole initial conditions in the limit of high temperature. We also prove the existence of excluded regions in the parameter space, i.e. of sets of states which cannot be linked by any Gaussian dynamical map.

id: 1211.6407
title: On a general criterion for nonclassicality from a signaling perspective
authors: S. Aravinda, R. Srikanth
comments: 4 pages; supplemental material (2 pages) added; improved presentation; 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6407
abstract: We argue that the essence of nonclassicality of a bipartite correlation is a positive signal deficit-- the communication cost excess over the available signaling. By this criterion, while violations of Bell-type and contextuality inequalities are necessarily non-classical, some violations of the Leggett-Garg inequality are classical. Further, signaling tends to diminish nonclassical properties, such as intrinsic randomness, no-cloning, complementarity, etc. Signal deficit is shown to have its ultimate origin in intrinsic randomness. A possible analogy of nonclassicality to the metamathematical concept of G\"odel incompleteness is noted.

id: 1211.6469
title: Dynamical correlation functions and the quantum Rabi model
authors: F. Alexander Wolf, Fabio Vallone, Guillermo Romero, Marcus Kollar, Enrique Solano, Daniel Braak
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures. Revised version, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023835 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6469
abstract: We study the quantum Rabi model within the framework of the analytical solution developed in Phys. Rev. Lett. 107,100401 (2011). In particular, through time-dependent correlation functions, we give a quantitative criterion for classifying two regions of the quantum Rabi model, involving the Jaynes-Cummings, the ultrastrong, and deep strong coupling regimes. In addition, we find a stationary qubit-field entangled basis that governs the whole dynamics as the coupling strength overcomes the mode frequency.

id: 1211.6472
title: Geometric measure of entanglement of the qubit with an arbitrary quantum system
authors: Andrzej M. Frydryszak, Volodymyr M. Tkachuk
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6472
abstract: We find the explicit expression for geometric measure of entanglement of one qubit with arbitrary other quantum system. The result is applied to the characterization of the bipartite entanglement of the Werner state, Dicke state, GHZ state and trigonometric states for systems consisting of $n$ qubits. The geometric measure of entanglement of one qubit with other $n-1$ qubits in above states is calculated and general properties of bipartite entanglement are established. In particular for the Werner-like states the rule of sums is found and it is shown that deviations from the symmetricity of such states diminishes the amount of entanglement. For Dicke states we show that the maximal value of bipartite entanglement is achieved when number of excitations is half of the total number of qubits in these state. For trigonometric states the bipartite entanglement is maximal and does not depend on the number of qubits.

id: 1211.6518
title: QuTiP 2: A Python framework for the dynamics of open quantum systems
authors: J. R. Johansson, P. D. Nation, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Comp. Phys. Comm. 184, 1234-1240 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6518
abstract: We present version 2 of QuTiP, the Quantum Toolbox in Python. Compared to the preceding version [Comput. Phys. Comm. 183 (2012) 1760], we have introduced numerous new features, enhanced performance, made changes in the Application Programming Interface (API) for improved functionality and consistency within the package, as well as increased compatibility with existing conventions used in other scientific software packages for Python. The most significant new features include efficient solvers for arbitrary time-dependent Hamiltonians and collapse operators, support for the Floquet formalism, and new solvers for Bloch-Redfield and Floquet-Markov master equations. Here we introduce these new features, demonstrate their use, and give a summary of the important backward-incompatible API changes introduced in this version.

id: 1211.6540
title: Correlation enhanced phase sensitive Raman scattering in atomic vapors
authors: Chun-Hua Yuan, L. Q. Chen, Z. Y. Ou, Weiping Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053835 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6540
abstract: We theoretically propose a method to enhance Raman scattering by injecting a seeded light field which is correlated with the initially prepared atomic spin wave. Such a light-atom correlation leads to an interference in the Raman scattering. The interference is sensitive to the relative phase between the seeded light field and initially prepared atomic spin wave. For constructive interference, the Raman scattering is greatly enhanced. Such an enhanced Raman scattering may find applications in quantum information, nonlinear optics and optical metrology due to its simplicity.

id: 1211.6554
title: Microwave Near-Field Quantum Control of Trapped Ions
authors: U. Warring, C. Ospelkaus, Y. Colombe, K. R. Brown, J. M. Amini, M. Carsjens, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 12 pages and 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013437 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6554
abstract: Microwave near-field quantum control of spin and motional degrees of freedom of 25Mg+ ions can be used to generate two-ion entanglement, as recently demonstrated in Ospelkaus et al. [Nature 476, 181 (2011)]. Here, we describe additional details of the setup and calibration procedures for these experiments. We discuss the design and characteristics of the surface-electrode trap and the microwave system, and compare experimental measurements of the microwave near-fields with numerical simulations. Additionally, we present a method that utilizes oscillating magnetic-field gradients to detect micromotion induced by the ponderomotive radio-frequency potential in linear traps. Finally, we discuss the present limitations of microwave-driven two-ion entangling gates in our system.

id: 1211.6578
title: On the physics of the $so_q(4)$ hydrogen atom
authors: P. G. Castro, R. Kullock
comments: 10 pages; major changes to section 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6578
abstract: In this work we investigate the $q$-deformation of the $so(4)$ dynamical symmetry of the hydrogen atom using the theory of the quantum group $su_q(2)$. We derive the energy spectrum in a physically consistent manner and find a degeneracy breaking as well as a smaller Hilbert space. We point out that using the deformed Casimir as was done before leads to inconsistencies in the physical interpretation of the theory.

id: 1211.6634
title: Quantum tele-amplification with a continuous variable superposition state
authors: Jonas S. Neergaard-Nielsen, Yujiro Eto, Chang-Woo Lee, Hyunseok Jeong, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 6+12 pages REVTeX, 16 figures; v2: numerous minor edits and corrections, one appendix added
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 439-443 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6634
abstract: Optical coherent states are classical light fields with high purity, and are essential carriers of information in optical networks. If these states could be controlled in the quantum regime, allowing for their quantum superposition (referred to as a Schr\"odinger cat state), then novel quantum-enhanced functions such as coherent-state quantum computing (CSQC), quantum metrology, and a quantum repeater could be realized in the networks. Optical cat states are now routinely generated in the laboratories. An important next challenge is to use them for implementing the aforementioned functions. Here we demonstrate a basic CSQC protocol, where a cat state is used as an entanglement resource for teleporting a coherent state with an amplitude gain. We also show how this can be extended to a loss-tolerant quantum relay of multi-ary phase-shift keyed coherent states. These protocols could be useful both in optical and quantum communications.

id: 1211.6692
title: Mathematical Methods in Quantum Optics: the Dicke Model
authors: Eduardo Nahmad-Achar, Octavio Casta?os, Ram¨®n L¨®pez-Pe?a, Jorge G. Hirsch
comments: 14 pp, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. {\bf 87}, 038114 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6692
abstract: We show how various mathematical formalisms, specifically the catastrophe formalism and group theory, aid in the study of relevant systems in quantum optics. We describe the phase transition of the Dicke model for a finite number N of atoms, via 3 different methods, which lead to universal parametric curves for the expectation value of the first quadrature of the electromagnetic field and the expectation value of the number operator, as functions of the atomic relative population. These are valid for all values of the matter-field coupling parameter, and valid for both the ground and first-excited states. Using these mathematical tools, the critical value of the atom-field coupling parameter is found as a function of the number of atoms, from which its critical exponent is derived.

id: 1211.6702
title: On deformed quantum potentials
authors: Robert Carroll
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6702
abstract: We describe some analogues of quantum potentials arising in fractional or deformed Schroedinger equations.

id: 1211.6788
title: Bell inequalities for multipartite qubit quantum systems and their maximal violation
authors: Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.A,86.052119(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6788
abstract: We present a set of Bell inequalities for multiqubit quantum systems. These Bell inequalities are shown to be able to detect multiqubit entanglement better than previous Bell inequalities such as Werner-Wolf-Zukowski- Brukner ones. Computable formulas are presented for calculating the maximal violations of these Bell inequalities for any multiqubit states.

id: 1211.6829
title: Quantum Teleportation with Remote Rotation on a GHZ state
authors: Jung-Lun Hsu, Yu-Ting Chen, Chia-Wei Tsai, Tzonelish Hwang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6829
abstract: This study proposes a pioneering protocol for teleporting an arbitrary single particle state and simultaneously performing a rotation operation on that particle. There are protocols for either only teleporting particles or only remotely controlling quantum particles. If one has to remotely control a teleported quantum, then he/she has to first do the quantum teleportation and then perform the remote control on the teleported quantum. Both operations were done separately on two sets of entanglements. However, this intuitive solution is inefficient because many resources are wasted. Therefore, the study attempts to complete both operations using only one Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state.

id: 1211.6843
title: Body-assisted dispersion potentials of diamagnetic atoms
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Hassan Safari, Stefan Scheel, A. Salam
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6843
abstract: We derive Casimir-Polder and van der Waals potentials of one or two atoms with diamagnetic properties in an arbitrary environment of magnetoelectric bodies. The calculations are based on macroscopic quantum electrodynamics and leading-order perturbation theory. For the examples of an atom and a perfect mirror and two atoms in free space we show that diamagnetic dispersion potentials have the same sign as their electric counterparts, but can exhibit quite different distance dependences.

id: 1211.6846
title: Approximate analytical solutions of the Dirac equation for Yukawa potential plus Tensor Interaction with any $¦Ê$-value
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 15 pages
journal: Few-Body Syst. 54, 1829 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6846
abstract: Approximate analytical solutions of the Dirac equation are obtained for the Yukawa potential plus a tensor interaction with any $\kappa$-value for the cases having the Dirac equation pseudospin and spin symmetry. The potential describing tensor interaction has a Yukawa-like form. Closed forms of the energy eigenvalue equations and the spinor wave functions are computed by using the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. It is observed that the energy eigenvalue equations are consistent with the ones obtained before. Our numerical results are also listed to see the effect of the tensor interaction on the bound states.

id: 1211.6862
title: Comment on `Detecting non-Abelian geometric phases with three-level $¦«$ systems'
authors: Marie Ericsson, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Explicit proof that the non-Abelian geometric phase is trivial added, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 036101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6862
abstract: In their recent paper, Yan-Xiong Du et al. [Phys. Rev. A 84, 034103 (2011)] claim to have found a non-Abelian adiabatic geometric phase associated with the energy eigenstates of a large-detuned $\Lambda$ three-level system. They further propose a test to detect the non-commutative feature of this geometric phase. On the contrary, we show that the non-Abelian geometric phase picked up by the energy eigenstates of a $\Lambda$ system is trivial in the adiabatic approximation, while, in the exact treatment of the time evolution, this phase is very small and cannot be separated from the non-Abelian dynamical phase acquired along the path in parameter space.

id: 1211.6867
title: Trapping of Topological-Structural Defects in Coulomb Crystals
authors: M. Mielenz, H. Landa, J. Brox, S. Kahra, G. Leschhorn, M. Albert, B. Reznik, T. Schaetz
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; some additional citations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6867
abstract: We study experimentally and theoretically structural defects which are formed during the transition from a laser cooled cloud to a Coulomb crystal, consisting of tens of ions in a linear radio frequency trap. We demonstrate the creation of predicted topological defects (`kinks') in purely two-dimensional crystals, and also find kinks which show novel dynamical features in a regime of parameters not considered before. The kinks are always observed at the centre of the trap, showing a large nonlinear localized excitation, and the probability of their occurrence surprisingly saturates at ~0.5. Simulations reveal a strong anharmonicity of the kink's internal mode of vibration, due to the kink's extension into three dimensions. As a consequence, the periodic Peierls-Nabarro potential experienced by a discrete kink becomes a globally confining potential, capable of trapping one cooled defect at the center of the crystal.

id: 1211.6889
title: Ladder operators and squeezed coherent states of a 3-dimensional generalized isotonic nonlinear oscillator
authors: V. Chithiika Ruby, S. Karthiga, M. Senthilvelan
comments: To appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor., (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6889
abstract: We explore squeezed coherent states of a 3-dimensional generalized isotonic oscillator whose radial part is the newly introduced generalized isotonic oscillator whose bound state solutions have been shown to admit the recently discovered $X_1$-Laguerre polynomials. We construct a complete set of squeezed coherent states of this oscillator by exploring the squeezed coherent states of the radial part and combining the latter with the squeezed coherent states of the angular part. We also prove that the three mode squeezed coherent states resolve the identity operator. We evaluate Mandel's $Q$-parameter of the obtained states and demonstrate that these states exhibit sub-Possionian and super-Possionian photon statistics. Further, we illustrate the squeezing properties of these states, both in the radial and angular parts, by choosing appropriate observables in the respective parts. We also evaluate Wigner function of these three mode squeezed coherent states and demonstrate squeezing property explicitly.

id: 1211.6904
title: On expansion of equal-time relativistic two-body wave equations in powers of 1/c to higher orders
authors: Alexei Turovsky
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6904
abstract: Based on an extension of the Foldy--Wouthuysen method to two-body equations, the problem of expansion of equal-time relativistic equations for two Dirac particles in powers of $1/c$ to higher orders is considered. For the case of two particles with unequal masses, the transformed Hamiltonian in a general even-even form is obtained to order $1/c^4$. It is found that certain extra terms, which can be eliminated by an additional unitary transformation, arise in the expansion in higher orders, depending on the order of application of the generating functions in the first iteration. As examples for illustration, the Breit equation and the Salpeter equation with the Breit interaction are taken and their reduction to approximate forms including all the $1/c^{4}$-order terms is carried out using the method under consideration. The obtained results may be applied for the nonrelativistic expansion of two-body wave equations with various interaction potentials to higher orders, for the investigation of their features and symmetries, and may also be useful in the study of light atoms.

id: 1211.6907
title: Bosonic bunching reveals strong contextual behaviour
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Akihito Soeda, Jayne Thompson, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6907
abstract: We show that violation of Klyachko-Can-Binicioglu-Shumovsky [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 101}, 020403 (2008)] pentagram-like inequality can exceed $\sqrt{5}$ provided that exclusive events do not have to be comeasurable and that one uses bosonic systems which exhibit bunching effects. We also show that in this case one can find three pairwise exclusive events whose sum of probabilities is 3/2.

id: 1211.7001
title: Pre-management of Disentanglement
authors: Xiao-Feng Qian
comments: 14 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 265304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7001
abstract: We define threshold disentanglement (TD) as the level above which entanglement must be maintained for later use and calculate the values of quantum system parameters at $t=0$ that will ensure that the threshold is not crossed in a specified time. An important issue is the possibility of non-smooth, typically non-exponential, decay of entanglement into the state of complete disentanglement (CD). Given a specified operation time $\tau$, we determine phase diagrams showing entanglement preservation during the evolution of a generic two-qubit mixed state as a function of selected initial parameters such as concurrence and excitation probabilities. In other words, disentanglement can be pre-managed through these parameters. Three common relaxation processes - amplitude, phase and depolarization - are considered.

id: 1211.7011
title: A Laplace transform approach to the quantum harmonic oscillator
authors: Douglas R. M. Pimentel, Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7011
abstract: The one-dimensional quantum harmonic oscillator problem is examined via the Laplace transform method. The stationary states are determined by requiring definite parity and good behaviour of the eigenfunction at the origin and at infinity.

id: 1211.7029
title: Strong-coupling effects in dissipatively coupled optomechanical systems
authors: Talitha Weiss, Christoph Bruder, Andreas Nunnenkamp
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 045017 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7029
abstract: In this paper we study cavity optomechanical systems in which the position of a mechanical oscillator modulates both the resonance frequency (dispersive coupling) and the linewidth (dissipative coupling) of a cavity mode. Using a quantum noise approach we calculate the optical damping and the optically-induced frequency shift. We find that dissipatively coupled systems feature two parameter regions providing amplification and two parameter regions providing cooling. To investigate the strong-coupling regime, we solve the linearized equations of motion exactly and calculate the mechanical and optical spectra. In addition to signatures of normal-mode splitting that are similar to the case of purely dispersive coupling, the spectra contain a striking feature that we trace back to the Fano line shape of the force spectrum. Finally, we show that purely dissipative coupling can lead to optomechanically-induced transparency which will provide an experimentally convenient way to observe normal-mode splitting.

id: 1211.7036
title: Cooling-by-measurement and mechanical state tomography via pulsed optomechanics
authors: M. R. Vanner, J. Hofer, G. D. Cole, M. Aspelmeyer
comments: Note title change, 10 pages, 5 figures, includes supplementary information
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2295 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7036
abstract: Observing a physical quantity without disturbing it is a key capability for the control of individual quantum systems. Such back-action-evading or quantum-non-demolition measurements were first introduced in the 1970s in the context of gravitational wave detection to measure weak forces on test masses by high precision monitoring of their motion. Now, such techniques have become an indispensable tool in quantum science for preparing, manipulating, and detecting quantum states of light, atoms, and other quantum systems. Here we experimentally perform rapid optical quantum-noise-limited measurements of the position of a mechanical oscillator by using pulses of light with a duration much shorter than a period of mechanical motion. Using this back-action evading interaction we performed both state preparation and full state tomography of the mechanical motional state. We have reconstructed mechanical states with a position uncertainty reduced to 19 pm, limited by the quantum fluctuations of the optical pulse, and we have performed `cooling-by-measurement' to reduce the mechanical mode temperature from an initial 1100 K to 16 K. Future improvements to this technique may allow for quantum squeezing of mechanical motion, even from room temperature, and reconstruction of non-classical states exhibiting negative regions in their phase-space quasi-probability distribution.

id: 1211.7060
title: Dissipative Many-body Quantum Optics in Rydberg Media
authors: Alexey V. Gorshkov, Rejish Nath, Thomas Pohl
comments: Main text: 4 pages plus references, 3 figures. Supplementary info.: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 153601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7060
abstract: We develop a theoretical framework for the dissipative propagation of quantized light in interacting optical media under conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). The theory allows us to determine the peculiar spatiotemporal structure of the output of two complementary Rydberg-EIT-based light-processing modules: the recently demonstrated single-photon filter and the recently proposed single-photon subtractor, which, respectively, let through and absorb a single photon. In addition to being crucial for applications of these and other optical quantum devices, the theory opens the door to the study of exotic dissipative many-body dynamics of strongly interacting photons in nonlinear nonlocal media.

id: 1211.7081
title: The Universe is not a Computer
authors: Ken Wharton
comments: 10 pages with new afterword; matches published version
journal: in Questioning the Foundations of Physics, A. Aguirre, B. Foster and Z. Merali (Eds),; pp.177-190, Springer (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7081
abstract: When we want to predict the future, we compute it from what we know about the present. Specifically, we take a mathematical representation of observed reality, plug it into some dynamical equations, and then map the time-evolved result back to real-world predictions. But while this computational process can tell us what we want to know, we have taken this procedure too literally, implicitly assuming that the universe must compute itself in the same manner. Physical theories that do not follow this computational framework are deemed illogical, right from the start. But this anthropocentric assumption has steered our physical models into an impossible corner, primarily because of quantum phenomena. Meanwhile, we have not been exploring other models in which the universe is not so limited. In fact, some of these alternate models already have a well-established importance, but are thought to be mathematical tricks without physical significance. This essay argues that only by dropping our assumption that the universe is a computer can we fully develop such models, explain quantum phenomena, and understand the workings of our universe. (This essay was awarded third prize in the 2012 FQXi essay contest; a new afterword compares and contrasts this essay with Robert Spekkens' first prize entry.)

id: 1211.7083
title: Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems
authors: Luigi Amico, Sougato Bose, Vladimir E. Korepin, Vlatko Vedral
comments: Special Issue: Table of contents & Abstracts
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B vol.27 n. 1-3 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7083
abstract: Here we provide the contributions' abstracts published in a volume we edited as a special issue in International Journal of Modern Physics B. The volume deals with the recent progress in quantifying quantum correlations beyond the generic notion of 'correlations in a quantum system'. The main goal of the special issue is to provide authoritative reviews on selected topics discussed in the field in the last few years. Nevertheless many articles contain significant original research. The opening section of the issue is dedicated to foundational aspects of quantum mechanics. The second section deals with diverse quantum information insights into the analysis of quantum resources (like entanglement and quantum discord). Many of the concepts presented in the first part of the issue are applied to spin systems in the third section. The last section of the issue is focused on the dynamics of quantum discord in open systems and in quantum communication protocols.

id: 1211.7094
title: Solid-state electronic spin coherence time approaching one second
authors: Nir Bar-Gill, Linh M. Pham, Andrejs Jarmola, Dmitry Budker, Ronald L. Walsworth
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7094
abstract: Solid-state electronic spin systems such as nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers in diamond are promising for applications of quantum information, sensing, and metrology. However, a key challenge for such solid-state systems is to realize a spin coherence time that is much longer than the time for quantum spin manipulation protocols. Here we demonstrate an improvement of more than two orders of magnitude in the spin coherence time ($T_2$) of NV centers compared to previous measurements: $T_2 \approx 0.5$ s at 77 K, which enables $\sim 10^7$ coherent NV spin manipulations before decoherence. We employed dynamical decoupling pulse sequences to suppress NV spin decoherence due to magnetic noise, and found that $T_2$ is limited to approximately half of the longitudinal spin relaxation time ($T_1$) over a wide range of temperatures, which we attribute to phonon-induced decoherence. Our results apply to ensembles of NV spins and do not depend on the optimal choice of a specific NV, which could advance quantum sensing, enable squeezing and many-body entanglement in solid-state spin ensembles, and open a path to simulating a wide range of driven, interaction-dominated quantum many-body Hamiltonians.

id: 1211.7101
title: Exploiting structured environments for efficient energy transfer: The phonon antenna mechanism
authors: M. del Rey, A. W. Chin, S. F. Huelga, M. B. Plenio
comments: 5 pages + 2 pages
journal: J. Phys. Chem. Lett., 4, 903 - 907 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7101
abstract: A non-trivial interplay between quantum coherence and dissipative environment-driven dynamics is becoming increasingly recognised as key for efficient energy transport in photosynthetic pigment-protein complexes, and converting these biologically-inspired insights into a set of design principles that can be implemented in artificial light-harvesting systems has become an active research field. Here we identify a specific design principle - the phonon antenna - that demonstrates how inter-pigment coherence is able to modify and optimize the way that excitations spectrally sample their local environmental fluctuations. We place this principle into a broader context and furthermore we provide evidence that the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex of green sulphur bacteria has an excitonic structure that is close to such an optimal operating point, and suggest that this general design principle might well be exploited in other biomolecular systems.

id: 1211.7122
title: Patterns in the fabric of nature
authors: Steven Weinstein
comments: Submission to the 2012 FQXi essay contest "Which of Our Basic Physical Assumptions Are Wrong?". 11 pages including figures and references. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0812.0349
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7122
abstract: From classical mechanics to quantum field theory, the physical facts at one point in space are held to be independent of those at other points in space. I propose that we can usefully challenge this orthodoxy in order to explain otherwise puzzling correlations at both cosmological and microscopic scales.

id: 1211.7127
title: Generation of pulsed bipartite entanglement using four-wave mixing
authors: Quentin Glorieux, Jeremy B. Clark, Neil V. Corzo, Paul D. Lett
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in New Journal Of Physicis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7127
abstract: Using four-wave mixing in a hot atomic vapor, we generate a pair of entangled twin beams in the microsecond pulsed regime near the D1 line of $^{85}$Rb, making it compatible with commonly used quantum memory techniques. The beams are generated in the bright and vacuum-squeezed regimes, requiring two separate methods of analysis, without and with local oscillators, respectively. We report a noise reduction of up to $3.8\pm 0.2$ dB below the standard quantum limit in the pulsed regime and a level of entanglement that violates an Einstein--Podolsky--Rosen inequality.

id: 1211.7132
title: Choice of measurement as signal
authors: A. Kalev, A. Mann, M. Revzen
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7132
abstract: In classical mechanics, performing a measurement without reading the measurement outcome is equivalent to not exploiting the measurement at all. A non-selective measurement in the classical realm carries no information. Here we show that the situation is remarkably different when quantum mechanical systems are concerned. A non-selective measurement on one part of a maximally entangled pair can allow communication between two parties. In the proposed protocol, the signal is encoded in the choice of the measurement basis of one of the communicating parties, while the outcomes of the measurement are irrelevant for the communication and therefore may be discarded. Different choices for the (non-selective) measurement basis correspond to different signals. The scheme is studied in a Hilbert space of odd prime dimension

id: 1211.7156
title: Fast gates for ion traps by splitting laser pulses
authors: C. D. B. Bentley, A. R. R. Carvalho, D. Kielpinski, J. J. Hope
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 043006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7156
abstract: We present a fast phase gate scheme that is experimentally achievable and has an operation time more than two orders of magnitude faster than current experimental schemes for low numbers of pulses. The gate time improves with the number of pulses following an inverse power law. Unlike implemented schemes which excite precise motional sidebands, thus limiting the gate timescale, our scheme excites multiple motional states using discrete ultra-fast pulses. We use beam-splitters to divide pulses into smaller components to overcome limitations due to the finite laser pulse repetition rate. This provides gate times faster than proposed theoretical schemes when we optimise a practical setup.

id: 1211.7166
title: Action with Acceleration II: Euclidean Hamiltonian and Jordan Blocks
authors: Belal E. Baaquie
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7166
abstract: The Euclidean action with acceleration has been analyzed in [1], hereafter cited as reference I, for its Hamiltonian and path integral. In this paper, the state space of the Hamiltonian is analyzed for the case when it is pseudo-Hermitian (equivalent to a Hermitian Hamiltonian), as well as the case when it is inequivalent. The propagator is computed using both creation/destruction operators as well as the path integral. A state space calculation of the propagator shows the crucial role played by the dual state vectors that yields a result impossible to obtain from a Hermitian Hamiltonian acting on a Hilbert space. When it is not pseudo-Hermitian, the Hamiltonian is shown to be a direct sum of Jordan blocks.

id: 1211.7168
title: Action with Acceleration I: Euclidean Hamiltonian and Path Integral
authors: Belal E. Baaquie
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7168
abstract: An action having an acceleration term in addition to the usual velocity term is analyzed. The quantum mechanical system is directly defined for Euclidean time using the path integral. The Euclidean Hamiltonian is shown to yield the acceleration Lagrangian and the path integral with the correct boundary conditions. Due to the acceleration term, the state space depends on both position and velocity, and hence the Euclidean Hamiltonian depends on two degrees of freedom. The Hamiltonian for the acceleration system is non-Hermitian and can be mapped to a Hermitian Hamiltonian using a similarity transformation; the matrix elements of this unbounded transformation is explicitly evaluated. The mapping fails for a critical value of the coupling constants.

id: 1211.7171
title: Gradient echo memory in an ultra-high optical depth cold atomic ensemble
authors: B. M. Sparkes, J. Bernu, M. Hosseini, J. Geng, Q. Glorieux, P. A. Altin, P. K. Lam, N. P. Robins, B. C. Buchler
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7171
abstract: Quantum memories are an integral component of quantum repeaters - devices that will allow the extension of quantum key distribution to communication ranges beyond that permissible by passive transmission. A quantum memory for this application needs to be highly efficient and have coherence times approaching a millisecond. Here we report on work towards this goal, with the development of a $^{87}$Rb magneto-optical trap with a peak optical depth of 1000 for the D2 $F=2 \rightarrow F'=3$ transition using spatial and temporal dark spots. With this purpose-built cold atomic ensemble to implement the gradient echo memory (GEM) scheme. Our data shows a memory efficiency of $80\pm 2$% and coherence times up to 195 $\mu$s, which is a factor of four greater than previous GEM experiments implemented in warm vapour cells.

id: 1211.7187
title: Concise Quantum Associative Memories with Nonlinear Search Algorithm
authors: J.-P. Tchapet Njafa, S. G. Nana Engo, P. Woafo
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7187
abstract: The model of quantum associative memories (QAM) we propose here consists in simplifying and generalizing that of Rigui Zhou \etal \cite{zhou2012} who uses the quantum matrix with binary decision diagram and nonlinear search algorithm in his model. It is worth noting that David Rosenbaum put forth the quantum matrix with binary decision diagram \cite{Rosenbaum2010} and Abrams and Llyod did the nonlinear algorithm. \cite{Abrams1998} Our model gives the possibility to retrieve one of the sought states in multi-values retrieving scheme when a measure on the first register is done. It is better than Grover's algorithm and its modified form which need $\mathcal{O}(\sqrt{\frac{2^n} {m}})$ steps when they are used as the retrieval algorithm. $n$ is the number of qubit of the first register and $m$ the number of values $x$ for which $f(x)=1$. As the nonlinearity makes the system highly susceptible to noise, an analysis of the influence of the single qubit noise channels on the Nonlinear Search Algorithm of our model of QAM, shows a fidelity of about $0.7$ whatever the number of qubits present in the first register.

id: 1211.7203
title: Robust Filtering for Adaptive Homodyne Estimation of Continuously Varying Optical Phase
authors: Shibdas Roy, Ian R. Petersen, Elanor H. Huntington
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, Proceedings of the 2012 Australian Control Conference
journal: ISBN 978-1-922107-63-3, 2012, pp. 454-458
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7203
abstract: Recently, it has been demonstrated experimentally that adaptive estimation of a continuously varying optical phase provides superior accuracy in the phase estimate compared to static estimation. Here, we show that the mean-square error in the adaptive phase estimate may be further reduced for the stochastic noise process considered by using an optimal Kalman filter in the feedback loop. Further, the estimation process can be made robust to fluctuations in the underlying parameters of the noise process modulating the system phase to be estimated. This has been done using a guaranteed cost robust filter.

id: 1211.7210
title: Evolutionarily Stable Sets in Quantum Penny Flip Games
authors: Tina Yu, Radel Ben-Av
comments: 25 pages, Quantum Information Processing Journal
journal: Quantum Information Processing Journal, Volume 12, Issue 6, pp 2143-2165, June 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7210
abstract: In game theory, an Evolutionarily Stable Set (ES set) is a set of Nash Equilibrium (NE) strategies that give the same payoffs. Similar to an Evolutionarily Stable Strategy (ES strategy), an ES set is also a strict NE. This work investigates the evolutionary stability of classical and quantum strategies in the quantum penny flip games. In particular, we developed an evolutionary game theory model to conduct a series of simulations where a population of mixed classical strategies from the ES set of the game were invaded by quantum strategies. We found that when only one of the two players' mixed classical strategies were invaded, the results were different. In one case, due to the interference phenomenon of superposition, quantum strategies provided more payoff, hence successfully replaced the mixed classical strategies in the ES set. In the other case, the mixed classical strategies were able to sustain the invasion of quantum strategies and remained in the ES set. Moreover, when both players' mixed classical strategies were invaded by quantum strategies, a new quantum ES set emerged. The strategies in the quantum ES set give both players payoff 0, which is the same as the payoff of the strategies in the mixed classical ES set of this game.

id: 1211.7214
title: Spin splitting of relativistic particles in 3D
authors: Tihomir G. Tenev, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 095002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7214
abstract: The behavior of relativistic particles in an electric and/or magnetic field is considered in the general case when the direction of propagation may differ from the direction of the field. A special attention is paid to the spin splitting and the ensuing Larmor precession frequency of both neutral and charged particles. For both neutral and charged particles, the Larmor frequency shows a longitudinal motional red shift. For a neutral particle, there is a dynamical upper bound, which depends on both the mass and the transverse momentum of the particle; moreover, the transverse motion leads to a blue shift of the Larmor frequency. For a charged particle, the longitudinal motional decrease of the spin splitting is determined by the formation of Landau levels and it has no upper limit. Unlike the nonrelativistic limit, the relativistic spin splitting depends on the Landau levels and decreases for higher Landau levels, thereby signalling the presence of a Landau ladder red shift effect.

id: 1211.7215
title: A "Single-Photon" Transistor in Circuit Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Lukas Neumeier, Martin Leib, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: Analysis of pure dephasing, time delays between pulses and gain added. Word "quantum" dropped from title, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 063601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7215
abstract: We introduce a circuit quantum electrodynamical setup for a "single-photon" transistor. In our approach photons propagate in two open transmission lines that are coupled via two interacting transmon qubits. The interaction is such that no photons are exchanged between the two transmission lines but a single photon in one line can completely block respectively enable the propagation of photons in the other line. High on-off ratios can be achieved for feasible experimental parameters. Our approach is inherently scalable as all photon pulses can have the same pulse shape and carrier frequency such that output signals of one transistor can be input signals for a consecutive transistor.

id: 1211.7217
title: Fermionic mode entanglement in quantum information
authors: Nicolai Friis, Antony R. Lee, David Edward Bruschi
comments: v2: 9 pages, published version, minor format changes w.r.t. v1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022338 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7217
abstract: We analyze fermionic modes as fundamental entities for quantum information processing. To this end we construct a density operator formalism on the underlying Fock space and demonstrate how it can be naturally and unambiguously equipped with a notion of subsystems in the absence of a global tensor product structure. We argue that any apparent similarities between fermionic modes and qubits are superficial and can only be applied in limited situations. In particular, we discuss the ambiguities that arise from different treatments of this subject. Our results are independent of the specific context of the fermionic fields as long as the canonical anti-commutation relations are satisfied, e.g., in relativistic quantum fields, or fermionic trapped ions.

id: 1211.7224
title: Quantum estimation of a two-phases spin rotation
authors: Cyril Vaneph, Tommaso Tufarelli, Marco G. Genoni
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Measurements and Quantum Metrology 1, 12 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7224
abstract: We study the estimation of an infinitesimal rotation of a spin-j system, characterized by two unknown phases, and compare the estimation precision achievable with two different strategies. The first is a standard `joint estimation' strategy, in which a single probe state is used to estimate both parameters, while the second is a `sequential' strategy in which the two phases are estimated separately, each on half of the total number of system copies. In the limit of small angles we show that, although the joint estimation approach yields in general a better performance, the two strategies possess the same scaling of the total phase sensitivity with respect to the spin number j, namely $\Delta\Phi \simeq 1/j$. Finally, we discuss a simple estimation strategy based on spin squeezed states and spin measurements, and compare its performance with the ultimate limits to the estimation precision that we have derived above.

id: 1211.7240
title: Coherent Logic Gate for Light Pulses based on Storage in a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Christoph Vo, Stefan Riedl, Simon Baur, Gerhard Rempe, Stephan D¨¹rr
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 263602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7240
abstract: A classical logic gate connecting input and output light pulses is demonstrated. The gate operation is based on three steps: First, two incoming light pulses are stored in a Bose-Einstein condensate, second, atomic four-wave mixing generates a new matter wave, and third, the light pulses are retrieved. In the presence of the new matter wave, the retrieval generates a new optical wave. The latter will only be generated if both input light pulses are applied, thus realizing an AND gate. Finally, we show that the gate operation is phase coherent, an essential prerequisite for a quantum logic gate.

id: 1211.7269
title: Correspondence between future-included and future-not-included theories
authors: Keiichi Nagao, Holger Bech Nielsen
comments: 10 pages, references added, to appear in the proceedings of the 15th workshop "What Comes Beyond the Standard Models", Bled, Slovenia, Jul.9-19, 2012
journal: Proc. Bled 2012:What Comes Beyond the Standard Models, pp.86-93 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7269
abstract: We briefly review the correspondence principle proposed in our previous paper, which claims that if we regard a matrix element defined in terms of the future state at time $T_B$ and the past state at time $T_A$ as an expectation value in the complex action theory whose path runs over not only past but also future, the expectation value at the present time $t$ of a future-included theory for large $T_B-t$ and large $t-T_A$ corresponds to that of a future-not-included theory with a proper inner product for large $t-T_A$. This correspondence principle suggests that the future-included theory is not excluded phenomenologically.

id: 1211.7280
title: Manipulating energy and spin currents in nonequilibrium systems of interacting qubits
authors: Vladislav Popkov, Roberto Livi
comments: 8 pages, 3 Figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 023030
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7280
abstract: We consider generic interacting chain of qubits, which are coupled at the edges to baths of fixed polarizations. We can determine the nonequilibrium steady states, described by the fixed point of the Lindblad Master Equation. Under rather general assumptions about local pumping and interactions, symmetries of the reduced density matrix are revealed. The symmetries drastically restrict the form of the steady density matrices in such a way that an exponentially large subset of one--point and many--point correlation functions are found to vanish. As an example we show how in a Heisenberg spin chain a suitable choice of the baths can completely switch off either the spin or the energy current, or both of them, despite the presence of large boundary gradients.

id: 1211.7337
title: A linear theory underlying quantum mechanics
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7337
abstract: Linearity allows several versions of reality to simultaneously exist in the state vector. But it implies that there is no interaction between versions, and that there will never be perception of more than one version. It also implies, in conjunction with group representation theory, that the particle-like properties of mass, energy, momentum, spin and charge are attributes of the state vectors. These results can be used to show there is no evidence for the objective existence of particles. The properties of the wave function are sufficient to explain all the particle-like properties of matter. Representation theory is also extensively employed in the Standard Model, with gauge fields transforming as representations of the internal symmetry group. And when applied to the permutation group, it is essential for understanding symmetric and antisymmetric states. In fact all of quantum mechanics is set up exactly as if it were the representation of an underlying pre-representational theory. A linear equation structure for the underlying theory is suggested, and it is shown in outline how quantum field theory emerges as a representational form of the pre-representational theory.

id: 1211.7351
title: Revisiting Canonical Quantization
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: 14 pages, a simplified version of an earlier paper, "Enhanced Quantization: A Primer", two examples have been added, updated with new references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7351
abstract: Conventional canonical quantization procedures directly link various c-number and q-number quantities. Here, we advocate a different association of classical and quantum quantities that renders classical theory a natural subset of quantum theory with \hbar>0, in conformity with the real world wherein nature has chosen \hbar>0 rather than \hbar=0. While keeping the good results of conventional procedures, some examples are presented for which the new procedures offer better results than conventional ones.

id: 1211.7359
title: Genetic braid optimization: A heuristic approach to compute quasiparticle braids
authors: Ross B. McDonald, Helmut G. Katzgraber
comments: 6 pages 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 054414 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7359
abstract: In topologically-protected quantum computation, quantum gates can be carried out by adiabatically braiding two-dimensional quasiparticles, reminiscent of entangled world lines. Bonesteel et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 140503 (2005)], as well as Leijnse and Flensberg [Phys. Rev. B 86, 104511 (2012)] recently provided schemes for computing quantum gates from quasiparticle braids. Mathematically, the problem of executing a gate becomes that of finding a product of the generators (matrices) in that set that approximates the gate best, up to an error. To date, efficient methods to compute these gates only strive to optimize for accuracy. We explore the possibility of using a generic approach applicable to a variety of braiding problems based on evolutionary (genetic) algorithms. The method efficiently finds optimal braids while allowing the user to optimize for the relative utilities of accuracy and/or length. Furthermore, when optimizing for error only, the method can quickly produce efficient braids.

id: 1211.0002
title: The Meissner effect puzzle and the quantum force in superconductor
authors: A. V. Nikulov
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1104.4856
journal: Phys.Lett. A 376, 3392 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0002
abstract: The puzzle of the acceleration of the mobile charge carriers and the ions in the superconductor in direction opposite to the electromagnetic force revealed formerly in the Meissner effect is considered in the case of the transition of a narrow ring from normal to superconducting state. It is elucidated that the azimuthal quantum force was deduced eleven years ago from the experimental evidence of this acceleration but it can not solve this puzzle. This quantum force explains other paradoxical phenomena connected with reiterated switching of the ring between normal and superconducting states.

id: 1211.0006
title: Oscillating terms in the Renyi entropy of Fermi liquids
authors: Brian Swingle, Jeremy McMinis, Norm M. Tubman
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0006
abstract: In this work we compute subleading oscillating terms in the Renyi entropy of Fermi gases and Fermi liquids corresponding to $2k_F$-like oscillations. Our theoretical tools are the one dimensional formulation of Fermi liquid entanglement familiar from discussions of the logarithmic violation of the area law and quantum Monte Carlo calculations. The main result is a formula for the oscillating term for any region geometry and a spherical Fermi surface. We compare this term to numerical calculations of entanglement using the correlation function method and find excellent agreement. We also compare with quantum Monte Carlo data on interacting Fermi liquids where we also find excellent agreement up to moderate interaction strengths.

id: 1211.0097
title: Gamma-ray spectra of hexane in gas phase and liquid phase
authors: Xiaoguang Ma, Feng Wang
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, and 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0097
abstract: Theoretical gamma-ray spectra of molecule hexane have been calculated and compared with the experimental results in both gas (Surko et al, 1997) and liquid (Kerr et al, 1965) phases. The present study reveals that in gas phase not all valence electrons of hexane exhibit the same probability to annihilate a positron. Only the positrophilic electrons in the valence space dominate the gamma-ray spectra, which are in good agreement with the gas phase measurement. When hexane is confined in liquid phase, however, the intermolecular interactions ultimately eliminate the free molecular orientation and selectivity for the positrophilic electrons in the gas phase. As a result, the gamma-ray spectra of hexane become an averaged contribution from all valence electrons, which is again in agreement with liquid phase measurement. The roles of the positrophilic electrons in annihilation process for gas and liquid phases of hexane have been recognized for the first time in the present study.

id: 1211.0215
title: Linear Dependencies in Weyl-Heisenberg Orbits
authors: Hoan Bui Dang, Kate Blanchfield, Ingemar Bengtsson, D. M. Appleby
comments: 29 pages, 2 figures Quantum Inf Process (2013)
journal: Quantum Inf Process 12 (2013) 3449
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0215
abstract: Five years ago, Lane Hughston showed that some of the symmetric informationally complete positive operator valued measures (SICs) in dimension 3 coincide with the Hesse configuration (a structure well known to algebraic geometers, which arises from the torsion points of a certain elliptic curve). This connection with elliptic curves is signalled by the presence of linear dependencies among the SIC vectors. Here we look for analogous connections between SICs and algebraic geometry by performing computer searches for linear dependencies in higher dimensional SICs. We prove that linear dependencies will always emerge in Weyl-Heisenberg orbits when the fiducial vector lies in a certain subspace of an order 3 unitary matrix. This includes SICs when the dimension is divisible by 3 or equal to 8 mod 9. We examine the linear dependencies in dimension 6 in detail and show that smaller dimensional SICs are contained within this structure, potentially impacting the SIC existence problem. We extend our results to look for linear dependencies in orbits when the fiducial vector lies in an eigenspace of other elements of the Clifford group that are not order 3. Finally, we align our work with recent studies on representations of the Clifford group.

id: 1211.0245
title: Quantum Fluctuations of Vortex Lattices in Ultracold Gases
authors: M. P. Kwasigroch, N. R. Cooper
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0245
abstract: We discuss the effects of quantum fluctuations on the properties of vortex lattices in rapidly rotating ultracold atomic gases. We develop a variational method that goes beyond the Bogoliubov theory by including the effects of interactions between the quasiparticle excitations. These interactions are found to have significant quantitative effects on physical properties even at relatively large filling factors. We use our theory to predict the expected experimental signatures of quantum fluctuations of vortices, and to assess the competition of the triangular vortex lattice phase with other phases in finite-sized systems.

id: 1211.0293
title: Oscillatory dynamics and non-markovian memory in dissipative quantum systems
authors: D. M. Kennes, O. Kashuba, M. Pletyukhov, H. Schoeller, V. Meden
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 100405 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0293
abstract: The nonequilibrium dynamics of a small quantum system coupled to a dissipative environment is studied. We show that (1) the oscillatory dynamics close to a coherent-to-incoherent transition is surprisingly different from the one of the classical damped harmonic oscillator and that (2) non-markovian memory plays a prominent role in the time evolution after a quantum quench.

id: 1211.0321
title: Entanglement Entropy at Generalized Rokhsar-Kivelson Points of Quantum Dimer Models
authors: Alexander Selem, C. M. Herdman, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 11 pages+2 pages sup. mat., 11 Figures. Same text as published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 125105 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0321
abstract: We study the $n=2$ R\' enyi entanglement entropy of the triangular quantum dimer model via Monte Carlo sampling of Rokhsar-Kivelson(RK)-like ground state wavefunctions. Using the construction proposed by Kitaev and Preskill [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 110404 (2006)] and an adaptation of the Monte Carlo algorithm described by Hastings \emph{et al.} [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 157201 (2010)], we compute the topological entanglement entropy (TEE) at the RK point $\gamma = (1.001 \pm 0.003) \ln 2$ confirming earlier results. Additionally, we compute the TEE of the ground state of a generalized RK-like Hamiltonian and demonstrate the universality of TEE over a wide range of parameter values within a topologically ordered phase approaching a quantum phase transition. For systems sizes that are accessible numerically, we find that the quantization of TEE depends sensitively on correlations. We characterize corner contributions to the entanglement entropy and show that these are well described by shifts proportional to the number and types of corners in the bipartition.

id: 1211.0332
title: Gamma-ray spectra of methane in the positron-electron annihilation process
authors: Xiaoguang Ma, Feng Wang
comments: 
journal: Radiation Physics and Chemstry 85 (2013) 59-63
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0332
abstract: Bound electron contribution to the Doppler-shift of gamma-ray spectra in the positron-electron annihilation process of molecular methane has been studied in gas phase. Two accurate ab initio quantum mechanical schemes, i.e. the delocalized molecular orbital (MO) and the localized natural bond orbital (NBO) schemes, are applied to study the multi-centred methane molecule. The present ab initio calculations of methane indicate that the C-H bonds are polarized with the partial negative charge of -0.36 a.u. on the carbon atom and the partial positive charge of +0.09 a.u. on each of the hydrogen atoms. The positively charged hydrogen atoms produce repulsive Coulomb potentials to a positron. Both the MO and NBO schemes further reveal that the 2a1 electrons of methane, that is, the 2a1 electron component of the C-H bonds rather than the whole C-H bonds of methane, predominates the positron-electron annihilation gamma-ray spectra of the molecule. Electrons of a molecule which are dominant the positron-electron annihilation processes are called positrophilic electrons in the present study. It is further shown that the negative electrostatic potential (ESP) of methane facilitates with the density of the positrophilic 2a1 electrons of methane. Other valence electrons (e.g. 1t2) in the C-H bonds play a minor spectator role in the annihilation process of methane.

id: 1211.0366
title: Electric Spaser in the Extreme Quantum Limit
authors: Dabing Li, Mark I. Stockman
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0366
abstract: We consider theoretically the spaser excited electrically via a nanowire with ballistic quantum conductance. We show that in the extreme quantum regime, i.e., for a single conductance-quantum nanowire, the spaser with the core made of common plasmonic metals, such as silver and gold, is fundamentally possible. For ballistic nanowires with multiple-quanta or non-quantized conductance, the performance of the spaser is enhanced in comparison with the extreme quantum limit. The electrically-pumped spaser is promising as an optical source, nanoamplifier, and digital logic device for optoelectronic information processing with speed ~100 GHz to ~100 THz.

id: 1211.0385
title: Asymptotic Correction Schemes for Semilocal Exchange-Correlation Functionals
authors: Chi-Ruei Pan, Po-Tung Fang, Jeng-Da Chai
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables, supplementary material not included
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052510 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0385
abstract: Aiming to remedy the incorrect asymptotic behavior of conventional semilocal exchange-correlation (XC) density functionals for finite systems, we propose an asymptotic correction scheme, wherein an exchange density functional whose functional derivative has the correct (-1/r) asymptote can be directly added to any semilocal density functional. In contrast to semilocal approximations, our resulting exchange kernel in reciprocal space exhibits the desirable singularity of the type O(-1/q^2) as q -> 0, which is a necessary feature for describing the excitonic effects in non-metallic solids. By applying this scheme to a popular semilocal density functional, PBE [J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. 77, 3865 (1996)], the predictions of the properties that are sensitive to the asymptote are significantly improved, while the predictions of the properties that are insensitive to the asymptote remain essentially the same as PBE. Relative to the popular model XC potential scheme, our scheme is significantly superior for ground-state energies and related properties. In addition, without loss of accuracy, two closely related schemes are developed for the efficient treatment of large systems.

id: 1211.0387
title: Long-Range Corrected Hybrid Density Functionals with Improved Dispersion Corrections
authors: You-Sheng Lin, Guan-De Li, Shan-Ping Mao, Jeng-Da Chai
comments: accepted for publication in J. Chem. Theory Comput., DOI: 10.1021/ct300715s (2012)
journal: J. Chem. Theory Comput. 9, 263 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0387
abstract: By incorporating the improved empirical atom-atom dispersion corrections from DFT-D3 [Grimme, S.; Antony, J.; Ehrlich, S.; Krieg, H. J. Chem. Phys. 2010, 132, 154104], two long-range corrected (LC) hybrid density functionals are proposed. Our resulting LC hybrid functionals, omegaM06-D3 and omegaB97X-D3, are shown to be accurate for a very wide range of applications, such as thermochemistry, kinetics, noncovalent interactions, frontier orbital energies, fundamental gaps, and long-range charge-transfer excitations, when compared with common global and LC hybrid functionals. Relative to omegaB97X-D [Chai, J.-D.; Head-Gordon, M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2008, 10, 6615], omegaB97X-D3 (reoptimization of omegaB97X-D with improved dispersion corrections) is shown to be superior for non-bonded interactions, and similar in performance for bonded interactions, while omegaM06-D3 is shown to be superior for general applications.

id: 1211.0396
title: Linear maps preserving Ky Fan norms and Schatten norms of tensor products of matrices
authors: Ajda Fosner, Zejun Huang, Chi-Kwong Li, Nung-Sing Sze
comments: 14 pages, to appear in SIAM J. Matrix Analysis Appl
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0396
abstract: For a positive integer $n$, let $M_n$ be the set of $n\times n$ complex matrices. Suppose $\|\cdot\|$ is the Ky Fan $k$-norm with $1 \le k \le mn$ or the Schatten $p$-norm with $1 \le p \le \infty$ ($p\ne 2$) on $M_{mn}$, where $m,n\ge 2$ are positive integers. It is shown that a linear map $\phi: M_{mn} \rightarrow M_{mn}$ satisfying $$\|A\otimes B\| = \|\phi(A\otimes B)\| \quad \hbox{for all} A \in M_m \hbox{and} B \in M_n$$ if and only if there are unitary $U, V \in M_{mn}$ such that $\phi$ has the form $A\otimes B \mapsto U(\varphi_1(A) \otimes \varphi_2(B))V$, where $\varphi_s(X)$ is either the identity map $X \mapsto X$ or the transposition map $X \mapsto X^t$. The results are extended to tensor space $M_{n_1} \otimes \cdots \otimes M_{n_m}$ of higher level. The connection of the problem to quantum information science is mentioned.

id: 1211.0401
title: Spectral estimates for Dirichlet Laplacians on perturbed twisted tubes
authors: Pavel Exner, Diana Barseghyan
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0401
abstract: We investigate Dirichlet Laplacian in a straight twisted tube of a non-circular cross section, in particular, its discrete spectrum coming from a local slowdown of the twist. We prove a Lieb-Thirring-type estimate for the spectral moments and present two examples illustrating how the bound depends on the tube cross section.

id: 1211.0417
title: Noise Analysis of Qubits Implemented in Triple Quantum Dot Systems in a Davies Master Equation Approach
authors: Sebastian Mehl, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 30 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 195309 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0417
abstract: We analyze the influence of noise for qubits implemented using a triple quantum dot spin system. We give a detailed description of the physical realization and develop error models for the dominant external noise sources. We use a Davies master equation approach to describe their influence on the qubit. The triple dot system contains two meaningful realizations of a qubit: We consider a subspace and a subsystem of the full Hilbert space to implement the qubit. We test the robustness of these two implementations with respect to the qubit stability. When performing the noise analysis, we extract the initial time evolution of the qubit using a Nakajima-Zwanzig approach. We find that the initial time evolution, which is essential for qubit applications, decouples from the long time dynamics of the system. We extract probabilities for the qubit errors of dephasing, relaxation and leakage. Using the Davies model to describe the environment simplifies the noise analysis. It allows us to construct simple toy models, which closely describe the error probabilities.

id: 1211.0490
title: Emergence of complex and spinor wave functions in scale relativity. I. Nature of scale variables
authors: Laurent Nottale, Marie-No?lle C¨¦l¨¦rier
comments: 36 pages, 5 figures, major changes from the first version, matches the published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 112102 (2013)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0490
abstract: One of the main results of Scale Relativity as regards the foundation of quantum mechanics is its explanation of the origin of the complex nature of the wave function. The Scale Relativity theory introduces an explicit dependence of physical quantities on scale variables, founding itself on the theorem according to which a continuous and non-differentiable space-time is fractal (i.e., scale-divergent). In the present paper, the nature of the scale variables and their relations to resolutions and differential elements are specified in the non-relativistic case (fractal space). We show that, owing to the scale-dependence which it induces, non-differentiability involves a fundamental two-valuedness of the mean derivatives. Since, in the scale relativity framework, the wave function is a manifestation of the velocity field of fractal space-time geodesics, the two-valuedness of velocities leads to write them in terms of complex numbers, and yields therefore the complex nature of the wave function, from which the usual expression of the Schr\"odinger equation can be derived.

id: 1211.0491
title: Demonstrating a Driven Reset Protocol of a Superconducting Qubit
authors: K. Geerlings, Z. Leghtas, I. M. Pop, S. Shankar, L. Frunzio, R. J. Schoelkopf, M. Mirrahimi, M. H. Devoret
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 120501 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0491
abstract: Qubit reset is crucial at the start of and during quantum information algorithms. We present the experimental demonstration of a practical method to force qubits into their ground state, based on driving certain qubit and cavity transitions. Our protocol, called the double drive reset of population is tested on a superconducting transmon qubit in a three-dimensional cavity. Using a new method for measuring population, we show that we can prepare the ground state with a fidelity of at least 99.5 % in less than 3 microseconds; faster times and higher fidelity are predicted upon parameter optimization.

id: 1211.0590
title: Restoration of the Derivative Discontinuity in Kohn-Sham Density Functional Theory: An Efficient Scheme for Energy Gap Correction
authors: Jeng-Da Chai, Po-Ta Chen
comments: accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett., 24 pages, 2 figures, supplemental material included
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 033002 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0590
abstract: From the perspective of perturbation theory, we propose a systematic procedure for the evaluation of the derivative discontinuity (DD) of the exchange-correlation energy functional in Kohn-Sham density functional theory (KS-DFT), wherein the exact DD can in principle be obtained by summing up all the perturbation corrections to infinite order. Truncation of the perturbation series at low order yields an efficient scheme for obtaining the approximate DD. While the zeroth-order theory yields a vanishing DD, the first-order correction to the DD can be expressed as an explicit universal functional of the ground-state density and the KS lowest unoccupied molecular orbital density, allowing the direct evaluation of the DD in the standard KS method without extra computational cost. The fundamental gap can be predicted by adding the estimated DD to the KS gap. This scheme is shown to be accurate in the prediction of the fundamental gaps for a wide variety of atoms and molecules.

id: 1211.0603
title: Temperature-dependent Casimir-Polder forces on polarizable molecules
authors: Zhiying Zhu, Hongwei Yu, Bin Wang
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052508 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0603
abstract: We demonstrate that the thermal Casimir-Polder forces on molecules near a conducting surface whose transition wavelengths are comparable to the molecule-surface separation are dependent on the ambient temperature and molecular polarization and they can even be changed from attractive to repulsive via varying the temperature across a threshold value for anisotropically polarizable molecules. Remarkably, this attractive-to-repulsive transition may be realized at room temperature. Let us note that the predicted repulsion is essentially a nonequilibrium effect since the force we calculated on a ground-state (or an excited-stated) molecule actually contains the contribution of the absorption (or emission) of thermal photons.

id: 1211.0723
title: Cavity-aided non-demolition measurements for atom counting and spin squeezing
authors: Zilong Chen, Justin G. Bohnet, Joshua M. Weiner, Kevin C. Cox, James K. Thompson
comments: Substantially shortened. 19 pages, 16 figures
journal: Physical Review A, Vol. 89, 043837 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0723
abstract: Probing the collective spin state of an ensemble of atoms may provide a means to reduce heating via the photon recoil associated with the measurement and provide a robust, scalable route for preparing highly entangled states with spectroscopic sensitivity below the standard quantum limit for coherent spin states. The collective probing relies on obtaining a very large optical depth that can be effectively increased by placing the ensemble within an optical cavity such that the probe light passes many times through the ensemble. Here we provide expressions for measurement resolution and spectroscopic enhancement in such cavity-aided non-demolition measurements as a function of cavity detuning. In particular, fundamental limits on spectroscopic enhancements in $^{87}$Rb are considered.

id: 1211.0782
title: Adiabatic Electron Dynamics in Antiferromagnetic Texture
authors: Ran Cheng, Qian Niu
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 245118 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0782
abstract: Adiabatic dynamics of conduction electrons in antiferromagnetic (AFM) materials with slowly varying spin texture is developed. Quite different from the ferromagnetic (FM) case, adiabaticity in AFM texture does not imply perfect alignment of conduction electron spins with background profile, instead, it introduces an internal dynamics between degenerate bands. As a result, the orbital motion of conduction electrons becomes spin-dependent and is affected by two emergent gauge fields: one of them is the non-Abelian version of what has been discovered in FM systems; the other leads to an anomalous velocity that has no FM counterpart. Two examples with experimental predictions are provided.

id: 1211.0803
title: Quantum graph walks I: mapping to quantum walks
authors: Yusuke Higuchi, Norio Konno, Iwao Sato, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 20 pages
journal: Yokohama Mathematical Journal 59 (2013) pp.33--56
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0803
abstract: We clarify that coined quantum walk is determined by only the choice of local quantum coins. To do so, we characterize coined quantum walks on graph by disjoint Euler circles with respect to symmetric arcs. In this paper, we introduce a new class of coined quantum walk by a special choice of quantum coins determined by corresponding quantum graph, called quantum graph walk. We show that a stationary state of quantum graph walk describes the eigenfunction of the quantum graph.

id: 1211.0913
title: On a solution of the Schrodinger equation with a hyperbolic double-well potential
authors: C. A. Downing
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 072101 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0913
abstract: We report a solution of the one-dimensional Schrodinger equation with a hyperbolic double-well confining potential via a transformation to the so-called confluent Heun equation. We discuss the requirements on the parameters of the system in which a reduction to Heun polynomials is possible, representing the wavefunctions of bound states.

id: 1211.1065
title: Molecular imaging by optically-detected electron spin resonance of nitrogen-vacancies in nanodiamond
authors: Alex Hegyi, Eli Yablonovitch
comments: This paper has been withdrawn due to a request from the ACS Nano Letters editorial office
journal: Nano Lett 13 (2013) 1173-1178
subjects: Medical Physics (physics.med-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1065
abstract: Molecular imaging refers to a class of noninvasive biomedical imaging techniques with the sensitivity and specificity to image biochemical variations in-vivo. An ideal molecular imaging technique visualizes a biochemical target according to a range of criteria, including high spatial and temporal resolution, high contrast relative to non-targeted tissues, depth-independent penetration into tissue, lack of harm to the organism under study, and low cost. Because no existing molecular imaging modality is ideal for all purposes, new imaging approaches are needed. Here we demonstrate a novel molecular imaging approach, called nanodiamond imaging, that uses nanodiamonds containing nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers as an imaging agent, and image nanodiamond targets in pieces of chicken breast. Nanodiamonds can be tagged with biologically active molecules so they bind to specific receptors; their distribution can then be quantified in-vivo via optically-detected magnetic resonance of the NVs. In effect, we are demonstrating Optically-Detected Functional-Electron-Spin-Resonance-Imaging, OD-f-ESRI. By combining optical detection with magnetic resonance, nanodiamond imaging achieves high sensitivity and high spatial resolution. It is absent of the complications of ionizing radiation, and the cost should be similar to all-optical imaging. Because nanodiamond imaging is limited by the depth of optical penetration into tissue to depths of a few cm, nanodiamond imaging should open up new avenues of investigation for applications where high depth penetration is not required, such as in small-animal imaging, tumor margin imaging, sentinel lymph node mapping, and perhaps mammography.

id: 1211.1072
title: Reading, writing and squeezing the entangled states of two nanomechanical resonators coupled to a SQUID
authors: Guy Z. Cohen, Massimiliano Di Ventra
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 014513 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1072
abstract: We study a system of two nanomechanical resonators embedded in a dc SQUID. We show that the inductively-coupled resonators can be treated as two entangled quantum memory elements with states that can be read from, or written on by employing the SQUID as a displacement detector or switching additional external magnetic fields, respectively. We present a scheme to squeeze the even modeof the state of the resonators and consequently reduce the noise in the measurement of the magnetic flux threading the SQUID. Wefinally analyze the effect of dissipation on the squeezing using the quantum master equation, and show the qualitatively differentbehavior for the weak and strong damping regimes. Our predictions can be tested using current experimental capabilities.

id: 1211.1201
title: Non-perturbative stochastic method for driven spin-boson model
authors: Peter P. Orth, Adilet Imambekov, Karyn Le Hur
comments: 25 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 014305 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1201
abstract: We introduce and apply a numerically exact method for investigating the real-time dissipative dynamics of quantum impurities embedded in a macroscopic environment beyond the weak-coupling limit. We focus on the spin-boson Hamiltonian that describes a two-level system interacting with a bosonic bath of harmonic oscillators. This model is archetypal for investigating dissipation in quantum systems and tunable experimental realizations exist in mesoscopic and cold-atom systems. It finds abundant applications in physics ranging from the study of decoherence in quantum computing and quantum optics to extended dynamical mean-field theory. Starting from the real-time Feynman-Vernon path integral, we derive an exact stochastic Schr\"odinger equation that allows to compute the full spin density matrix and spin-spin correlation functions beyond weak coupling. We greatly extend our earlier work (P. P. Orth, A. Imambekov, and K. Le Hur, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 82}, 032118 (2010)) by fleshing out the core concepts of the method and by presenting a number of interesting applications. Methodologically, we present an analogy between the dissipative dynamics of a quantum spin and that of a classical spin in a random magnetic field. This analogy is used to recover the well-known non-interacting-blip-approximation in the weak-coupling limit. We explain in detail how to compute spin-spin autocorrelation functions. As interesting applications of our method, we explore the non-Markovian effects of the initial spin-bath preparation on the dynamics of the coherence $\sigma^x(t)$ and of $\sigma^z(t)$ under a Landau-Zener sweep of the bias field. We also compute to a high precision the asymptotic long-time dynamics of $\sigma^z(t)$ without bias and demonstrate the wide applicability of our approach by calculating the spin dynamics at non-zero bias and different temperatures.

id: 1211.1219
title: Variational problem for Hamiltonian system on so(k, m) Lie-Poisson manifold and dynamics of semiclassical spin
authors: A. A. Deriglazov
comments: published version
journal: Modern Physics Letters A 29 (N 10) (2014) 1450048 (18 pages)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1219
abstract: We describe the procedure for obtaining Hamiltonian equations on a manifold with $so(k, m)$ Lie-Poisson bracket from a variational problem. This implies identification of the manifold with base of a properly constructed fiber bundle embedded as a surface into the phase space with canonical Poisson bracket. Our geometric construction underlies the formalism used for construction of spinning particles in [24-27], and gives precise mathematical formulation of the oldest idea about spin as the "inner angular momentum".

id: 1211.1317
title: Majorana mass, time reversal symmetry, and the dimension of space
authors: Igor F. Herbut
comments: seven pages, slightly revised and restructured version; new section on connection to reality properties of spinor representations; typos corrected, new appendix on Majorana-Weyl fermions in D=1 (modulo eight); close to published version
journal: Physical Review D, vol. 87, 085002 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1317
abstract: The Weyl fermions with a well defined chirality are known to demand that the dimension of space which they inhabit must be odd. It is shown here, however, that not all odd dimensional spaces are equally good hosts: in particular, an arbitrary number of chiral Weyl fermions can acquire a Majorana mass only in three (modulo eight) dimensions. The argument utilizes a) the precise analogy that exists between the Majorana mass term and the Cooper pairing of time-reversed Weyl fermions, and b) the conditions on the requisite time-reversal operator, which are implied by the Clifford algebra. The theorem connects the observed odd number of neutrino flavors, the time reversal symmetry, and the dimension of our space, and strengthens the argument for the possible violation of the lepton number conservation law.

id: 1211.1398
title: Orthogonality catastrophe and decoherence in a trapped-Fermion environment
authors: A. Sindona, J. Goold, N. Lo Gullo, S. Lorenzo, F. Plastina
comments: substantially rewritten - errors and typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 165303 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1398
abstract: The Fermi edge singularity and the Anderson orthogonality catastrophe describe the universal physics which occurs when a Fermi sea is locally quenched by the sudden switching of a scattering potential, leading to a brutal disturbance of its ground state. We demonstrate that the effect can be seen in the controllable domain of ultracold trapped gases by providing an analytic description of the out-of-equilibrium response to an atomic impurity, both at zero and at finite temperature. Furthermore, we link the transient behavior of the gas to the decoherence of the impurity, and, in particular to the amount of non-markovianity of its dynamics.

id: 1211.1404
title: Floquet Majorana Fermions for Topological Qubits
authors: Dong E. Liu, Alex Levchenko, Harold U. Baranger
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; supplementary information: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 047002 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1404
abstract: We introduce and develop an approach to realizing a topological phase transition and non-Abelian statistics with dynamically induced Floquet Majorana Fermions (FMFs). When the periodic driving potential does not break fermion parity conservation, FMFs can encode quantum information. Quasi-energy analysis shows that a stable FMF zero mode and two other satellite modes exist in a wide parameter space with large quasi-energy gaps, which prevents transitions to other Floquet states under adiabatic driving. We also show that in the asymptotic limit FMFs preserve non-Abelian statistics and, thus, behave like their equilibrium counterparts.

id: 1211.1425
title: Nonlatching Superconducting Nanowire Single-Photon Detection with Quasi-Constant-Voltage Bias
authors: Deng-Kuan Liu, Si-Jing Chen, Li-Xing You, Yong-Liang Wang, Shigehito Miki, Zhen Wang, Xiao-Ming Xie, Mian-Heng Jiang
comments: accepted by Applied Physics Express 2012
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1425
abstract: Latching is a serious issue in superconducting nanowire single-photon detector (SNSPD) technology. By extensively studying the electrical transportation characteristics of SNSPD with different bias schemes, we conclude that latching is a result of the improper bias to SNSPD. With the quasi-constant-voltage bias scheme, the intrinsic nonlatching nature of SNSPD is observed and discussed. The SNSPD working in the nonlatching bias shows a smaller jitter and a higher pulse amplitude than that in the previous anti-latching method. The quantum efficiency of SNSPD with the pulsed photon frequency up to 3 GHz is measured successfully, which further proves the nonlatching operation of SNSPD.

id: 1211.1461
title: General Solution of the Two-Dimensional Intertwining Relations for Supercharges with Hyperbolic (Lorentz) Metrics
authors: M. S. Bardavelidze, M. V. Ioffe, D. N. Nishnianidze
comments: 12 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 377 (2013) 195-199
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1461
abstract: The supersymmetrical intertwining relations are the most productive part of the supersymmetrical method in two-dimensional Quantum Mechanics. Most interesting are relations with hyperbolic form of derivatives in supercharges. So far, several explicit solutions were found, and they provide nontrivial two-dimensional potentials which were further studied by means of supersymmetrical methods. In the present paper the general solution of intertwining relations with hyperbolic structure of supercharges is obtained. The corresponding potentials are built explicitly, and it is evident that some of them were not known before now.

id: 1211.1469
title: Reduced hierarchy equations of motion approach with Drude plus Brownian spectral distribution: Probing electron transfer processes by means of two- dimensionalcorrelation spectroscopy
authors: Yoshitaka Tanimura
comments: 28 pages, 8 figures; J. Chem. Phys. 137 (2012)
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 22A550 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1469
abstract: We theoretically investigate an electron transfer (ET) process in a dissipative environment by means of two-dimensional (2D) correlation spectroscopy. We extend the reduced hierarchy equations of motion approach to include both overdamped Drude and underdamped Brownian modes. While the overdamped mode describes the inhomogeneity of a system in the slow modulation limit, the underdamped mode expresses the primary vibrational mode coupled with the electronic states. We outline a procedure for calculating 2D correlation spectrum that incorporates the ET processes. The present approach has the capability of dealing with system-bath coherence under an external perturbation, which is important to calculate nonlinear response functions for non-Markovian noise. The calculated 2D spectrum exhibits the effects of the ET processes through the presence of ET transition peaks along the $\Omega_1$ axis, as well as the decay of echo signals.

id: 1211.1470
title: Demonstration of the Casimir force between ferromagnetic surfaces of a Ni-coated sphere and a Ni-coated plate
authors: A. A. Banishev, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, minor changes have been made in accordance with the version published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. v.110, 137401 (2013)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1470
abstract: We demonstrate the Casimir interaction between two ferromagnetic boundary surfaces using the dynamic atomic force microscope. The experimental data are found to be in excellent agreement with the predictions of the Lifshitz theory for magnetic boundary surfaces combined with the plasma model approach. It is shown that for magnetic materials the role of hypothetical patch potentials is opposite to that required for reconciliation of the data with the Drude model.

id: 1211.1525
title: Partial transpose of random quantum states: exact formulas and meanders
authors: Motohisa Fukuda, Piotr ?niady
comments: v2: change of title, change of some methods of proofs
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 042202 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1525
abstract: We investigate the asymptotic behavior of the empirical eigenvalues distribution of the partial transpose of a random quantum state. The limiting distribution was previously investigated via Wishart random matrices indirectly (by approximating the matrix of trace 1 by the Wishart matrix of random trace) and shown to be the semicircular distribution or the free difference of two free Poisson distributions, depending on how dimensions of the concerned spaces grow. Our use of Wishart matrices gives exact combinatorial formulas for the moments of the partial transpose of the random state. We find three natural asymptotic regimes in terms of geodesics on the permutation groups. Two of them correspond to the above two cases; the third one turns out to be a new matrix model for the meander polynomials. Moreover, we prove the convergence to the semicircular distribution together with its extreme eigenvalues under weaker assumptions, and show large deviation bound for the latter.

id: 1211.1560
title: The Floquet Method for $PT$-symmetric Periodic Potentials
authors: H. F. Jones
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1560
abstract: By the general theory of $PT$-symmetric quantum systems, their energy levels are either real or occur in complex-conjugate pairs, which implies that the secular equation must be real. However, for periodic potentials it is by no means clear that the secular equation arising in the Floquet method is indeed real, since it involves two linearly independent solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation. In this brief note we elucidate how that reality can be established.

id: 1211.1587
title: Coherent and Incoherent Multiple Scattering
authors: Julien Chabe, Mohamed-Taha Rouabah, Louis Bellando, Tom Bienaime, Nicola Piovella, Romain Bachelard, Robin Kaiser
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 89, 043833 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1587
abstract: We compare two different models of transport of light in a disordered system with a spherical Gaussian distribution of scatterers. A coupled dipole model, keeping into account all interference effects, is compared to an incoherent model, using a random walk of particles. Besides the well known coherent backscattering effect and a well pronounced forward lobe, the incoherent model reproduces extremely well all scattering features. In an experiment with cold atoms, we use the momentum recoil imparted on the center of mass of the sample as a partial probe of the light scattering properties. We find that the force acting on the center of mass of the atoms is not well suited to exhibit the coherence effects in light propagation under multiple scattering conditions.

id: 1211.1687
title: Robustness of a topological phase: Topological color code in parallel magnetic field
authors: Saeed S. Jahromi, Mehdi Kargarian, S Farhad Masoudi, Kai Phillip Schmidt
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 094413 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1687
abstract: The robustness of the topological color code, which is a class of error correcting quantum codes, is investigated under the influence of an uniform magnetic field on the honeycomb lattice. Our study relies on two high-order series expansions using perturbative continuous unitary transformations in the limit of low and high fields, exact diagonalization and a classical approximation. We show that the topological color code in a single parallel field is isospectral to the Baxter-Wu model in a transverse field on the triangular lattice. It is found that the topological phase is stable up to a critical field beyond which it breaks down to the polarized phase by a first-order phase transition. The results also suggest that the topological color code is more robust than the toric code, in the parallel magnetic field.

id: 1211.1854
title: Half-page derivation of the Thomas precession
authors: Andrzej Dragan, Tomasz Odrzyg¨®?d?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1854
abstract: Instantaneous derivation of the Thomas precession with only basic vector calculus.

id: 1211.1855
title: Should there be a spin-rotation coupling for a Dirac particle?
authors: Mayeul Arminjon
comments: 29 pages in standard 12pt. V2: Introduction reinforced. New Section 3 on the dependences of the Hamiltonian on the reference frame and on the tetrad field. New references
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys., Vol. 53, No. 6, pp. 1993-2013 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1855
abstract: It was argued by Mashhoon that a spin-rotation coupling term should add to the Hamiltonian operator in a rotating frame, as compared with the one in an inertial frame. For a Dirac particle, the Hamiltonian and energy operators H and E were recently proved to depend on the tetrad field. We argue that this non-uniqueness of H and E really is a physical problem. We compute the energy operator in the inertial and the rotating frame, using three tetrad fields: one for each of two frameworks proposed to select the tetrad field so as to solve this non-uniqueness problem, and one proposed by Ryder. We find that Mashhoon's term is there if the tetrad rotates as does the reference frame --- but then it is also there in the energy operator for the inertial frame. In fact, the Dirac Hamiltonian operators in two reference frames in relative rotation, but corresponding to the same tetrad field, differ only by the angular momentum term. If the Mashhoon effect is to exist for a Dirac particle, the tetrad field must be selected in a specific way for each reference frame.

id: 1211.1895
title: A new Approach to the N-particle Problem in QM
authors: Joachim Schr?ter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1895
abstract: In this paper the old problem of determining the discrete spectrum of a multi-particle Hamiltonian is reconsidered. The aim is to bring a fermionic Hamiltonian for large numbers N of particles by analytical means into a shape such that modern numerical methods can successfully be applied. For this purpose the Cook-Schroeck Formalism is taken as starting point. This includes the use of the occupation-number representation. It is shown that the N-particle Hamiltonian is determined in a canonical way by a \fictional 2-particle Hamiltonian. A special approximation of this 2-particle operator delivers an approximation of the N-particle Hamiltonian, which is the orthogonal sum of finite dimensional operators. A complete classification of the matrices of these operators is given. Finally the method presented here is formulated as a work program for practical applications. The connection with other methods for solving the same problem is discussed.

id: 1211.1917
title: Experimenters' Free Will and Quantum Certainty
authors: Joseph J. Bisognano
comments: An earlier version of this essay was submitted to the Foundation Questions Institute (FQXi) 2012 essay contest "Questioning the Foundations."
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1917
abstract: Physics has long lived with a schizophrenia that desires determinism for measured systems while demanding that experimenters decide what to measure on a whim. Intriguingly, such a free will assumption for experimenters has thwarted many attempts to provide a satisfactory explanation of how quantum probabilities evolve to clear-cut measurements. An overview of this quantum measurement problem is presented without equations, and the lesson is drawn that denial of experimenters' free will may be the only workable solutions. If the free will assumption is rejected, then a door is open that may ultimately reconcile quantum mechanics with the definiteness of individual experiments. A holistic view is offered for an Escher-like self-consistent space-time net of events rather than a conspiracy of initial conditions as a way forward.

id: 1211.1918
title: Characterization of dynamical phase transitions in quantum jump trajectories beyond the properties of the stationary state
authors: Igor Lesanovsky, Merlijn van Horssen, Madalin Guta, Juan P. Garrahan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 150401 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1918
abstract: We describe how to characterize dynamical phase transitions in open quantum systems from a purely dynamical perspective, namely, through the statistical behavior of quantum jump trajectories. This approach goes beyond considering only properties of the steady state. While in small quantum systems dynamical transitions can only occur trivially at limiting values of the controlling parameters, in many-body systems they arise as collective phenomena and within this perspective they are reminiscent of thermodynamic phase transitions. We illustrate this in open models of increasing complexity: a three-level system, a dissipative version of the quantum Ising model, and the micromaser. In these examples dynamical transitions are accompanied by clear changes in static behavior. This is however not always the case, and in general dynamical phase behavior needs to be uncovered by observables which are strictly dynamical, e.g. dynamical counting fields. We demonstrate this via the example of a class of models of dissipative quantum glasses, whose dynamics can vary widely despite having identical (and trivial) stationary states.

id: 1211.1933
title: Magnetic and electric properties of quantum vacuum
authors: R¨¦my Battesti, Carlo Rizzo
comments: Reports on Progress in Physics (2013) in press
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1933
abstract: In this report we show that vacuum is a nonlinear optical medium and we discuss what are the optical phenomena that should exist in the framework of the standard model of particle physics. We pay special attention to the low energy limit. The predicted effects for photons of energy smaller than the electron rest mass are of such a level that none has been observed experimentally yet. Progresses in field sources and related techniques seem to indicate that in few years vacuum nonlinear optics will be accessible to human investigation.

id: 1211.1934
title: Group-Theoretical Derivation of Angular Momentum Eigenvalues in Spaces of Arbitrary Dimensions
authors: Tamar Friedmann, C.R. Hagen
comments: 4 pages; to appear in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 122102 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1934
abstract: The spectrum of the square of the angular momentum in arbitrary dimensions is derived using only group theoretical techniques. This is accomplished by application of the Lie algebra of the noncompact group O(2,1).

id: 1211.1938
title: A quantum mechanical model for the rate of return
authors: Liviu-Adrian Cotfas
comments: 
journal: Romanian Reports in Physics 65 (2013) 327-333
subjects: General Finance (q-fin.GN); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1938
abstract: In their activity, the traders approximate the rate of return by integer multiples of a minimal one. Therefore, it can be regarded as a quantized variable. On the other hand, there is the impossibility of observing the rate of return and its instantaneous forward time derivative, even if we consider it as a continuous variable. We present a quantum model for the rate of return based on the mathematical formalism used in the case of quantum systems with finite-dimensional Hilbert space. The rate of return is described by a discrete wave function and its time evolution by a Schodinger type equation.

id: 1211.1950
title: Tunable coupling to a mechanical oscillator circuit using a coherent feedback network
authors: Joseph Kerckhoff, Reed W. Andrews, H. S. Ku, William F. Kindel, Katarina Cicak, Raymond W. Simmonds, K. W. Lehnert
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 021013 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1950
abstract: We demonstrate a fully cryogenic microwave feedback network composed of modular superconducting devices connected by transmission lines and designed to control a mechanical oscillator coupled to one of the devices. The network features an electromechanical device and a tunable controller that coherently receives, processes and feeds back continuous microwave signals that modify the dynamics and readout of the mechanical state. While previous electromechanical systems represent some compromise between efficient control and efficient readout of the mechanical state, as set by the electromagnetic decay rate, the tunable controller produces a closed-loop network that can be dynamically and continuously tuned between both extremes much faster than the mechanical response time. We demonstrate that the microwave decay rate may be modulated by at least a factor of 10 at a rate greater than $10^4$ times the mechanical response rate. The system is easy to build and suggests that some useful functions may arise most naturally at the network-level of modular, quantum electromagnetic devices.

id: 1211.2017
title: Long-lived, radiation-suppressed superconducting quantum bit in a planar geometry
authors: Martin Sandberg, Michael R. Vissers, Tom Ohki, Jiansong Gao, Jose Aumentado, Martin Weides, David P. Pappas
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2017
abstract: We present a superconducting qubit design that is fabricated in a 2D geometry over a superconducting ground plane to enhance the lifetime. The qubit is coupled to a microstrip resonator for readout. The circuit is fabricated on a silicon substrate using low loss, stoichiometric titanium nitride for capacitor pads and small, shadow-evaporated aluminum/aluminum-oxide junctions. We observe qubit relaxation and coherence times ($T_1$ and $T_2$) of 11.7 $\pm$ 0.2 $\mu$s and 8.7 $\pm$ 0.3 $\mu$s, respectively. Calculations show that the proximity of the superconducting plane suppresses the otherwise high radiation loss of the qubit. A significant increase in $T_1$ is projected for a reduced qubit-to-superconducting plane separation.

id: 1211.2018
title: Interaction induced staggered spin-orbit order in two-dimensional electron gas
authors: Tanmoy Das
comments: Accepted in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 246406 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2018
abstract: We propose and formulate an interaction induced staggered spin-orbit order as a new emergent phase of two-dimensional Fermi gases. We show that when some form of inherent spin-splitting via Rashba-type spin-orbit coupling renders two helical Fermi surfaces to become significantly `nested', a Fermi surface instability arises. To lift this degeneracy, a spontaneous symmetry breaking spin-orbit density wave develops, causing a surprisingly large quasiparticle gapping with chiral electronic states. Since the staggered spin-orbit order is associated with a condensation energy, quantified by the gap value, destroying such spin-orbit interaction costs sufficiently large perturbation field or temperature or de-phasing time. BiAg$_2$ surface state is shown to be a representative system for realizing such novel spin-orbit interaction with tunable and large strength, and the spin-splitting is decoupled from charge excitations. These functional properties are relevant for spin-electronics, spin-caloritronics, and spin-Hall effect applications.

id: 1211.2043
title: Entanglement signatures of phase transition in higher-derivative quantum field theories
authors: Suman Ghosh, S. Shankaranarayanan
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. D, 20 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2043
abstract: We show that the variation of the ground state entanglement in linear, higher spatial derivatives field theories at zero-temperature have signatures of phase transition. Around the critical point, when the dispersion relation changes from linear to non-linear, there is a fundamental change in the reduced density matrix leading to a change in the scaling of entanglement entropy. We suggest possible explanations involving both kinematical and dynamical effects. We discuss the implication of our work for 2-D condensed matter systems, black-hole entropy and models of quantum gravity.

id: 1211.2076
title: The quantum free particle on spherical and hyperbolic spaces: A curvature dependent approach II
authors: Jos¨¦ F. Cari?ena, Manuel F. Ra?ada, Mariano Santander
comments: 27 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 102109 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2076
abstract: This paper is the second part of a study of the quantum free particle on spherical and hyperbolic spaces by making use of a curvature-dependent formalism. Here we study the analogues, on the three-dimensional spherical and hyperbolic spaces, $S_\k^3$ ($\kappa>0$) and $H_\k^3$ ($\kappa<0$), to the standard {\itshape spherical waves} in $E^3$. The curvature $\k$ is considered as a parameter and for any $\k$ we show how the radial Schr\"odinger equation can be transformed into a $\k$-dependent Gauss hypergeometric equation that can be considered as a $\k$-deformation of the (spherical) Bessel equation. The specific properties of the spherical waves in the spherical case are studied with great detail. These have a discrete spectrum and their wave functions, which are related with families of orthogonal polynomials (both $\k$-dependent and $\k$-independent), and are explicitly obtained.

id: 1211.2152
title: Coherent interaction of a metallic structure with a single quantum emitter: from super absorption to cloaking
authors: Xue-Wen Chen, Vahid Sandoghdar, Mario Agio
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 153605 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2152
abstract: We provide a general theoretical platform based on quantized radiation in absorptive and inhomogeneous media for investigating the coherent interaction of light with metallic structures in the immediate vicinity of quantum emitters. In the case of a very small metallic cluster, we demonstrate extreme regimes where a single emitter can either counteract or enhance particle absorption by three orders of magnitude. For larger structures, we show that an emitter can eliminate both scattering and absorption and cloak a plasmonic antenna. We provide physical interpretations of our results and discuss their applications in active metamaterials and quantum plasmonics.

id: 1211.2242
title: Atomic Quantum Simulation of U(N) and SU(N) Non-Abelian Lattice Gauge Theories
authors: D. Banerjee, M.B?gli, M. Dalmonte, E. Rico, P. Stebler, U.-J. Wiese, P. Zoller
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures. Main text plus one basic introduction to the topic and one supplementary material on implementation. Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 125303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2242
abstract: Using ultracold alkaline-earth atoms in optical lattices, we construct a quantum simulator for U(N) and SU(N) lattice gauge theories with fermionic matter based on quantum link models. These systems share qualitative features with QCD, including chiral symmetry breaking and restoration at non-zero temperature or baryon density. Unlike classical simulations, a quantum simulator does not suffer from sign problems and can address the corresponding chiral dynamics in real time.

id: 1211.2261
title: Multi-channel S-matrices from energy levels in finite boxes
authors: Evan Berkowitz, Thomas D. Cohen, Patrick Jefferson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2261
abstract: We show that for a generic quantum mechanical system with more than one open scattering channel, it is not possible to fully reconstruct the theory's S-matrix from spectral information obtained in large finite volumes with periodic boundary conditions. Physically distinct S-matrices can have identical finite-volume spectra for large finite boxes of arbitrary sizes. If the theory is not time-reversal symmetric, there exists an uncountably infinite set of distinct S-matrices with the same spectra. If the theory respects time-reversal symmetry there exists a discrete set of S-matrices with identical energy levels for finite boxes. We illustrate the issue for simple quantum mechanical systems in 1+1 dimensions.

id: 1211.2342
title: On selective influences, marginal selectivity, and Bell/CHSH inequalities
authors: Ehtibar N. Dzhafarov, Janne V. Kujala
comments: This is an invited commentary for a special issue of Topics in Cognitive Science, dedicated to the use of quantum physical formalisms in cognitive science. Currently is in press
journal: Topics in Cognitive Psychology 6, pp. 121-128 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2342
abstract: The Bell/CHSH inequalities of quantum physics are identical with the inequalities derived in mathematical psychology for the problem of selective influences in cases involving two bi- nary experimental factors and two binary random variables recorded in response to them. The following points are made regarding cognitive science applications: (1) compliance of data with these inequalities is informative only if the data satisfy the requirement known as marginal selectivity; (2) both violations of marginal selectivity and violations of the Bell/CHSH inequalities are interpretable as indicating that at least one of the two responses is influenced by both experimental factors.

id: 1211.2392
title: A short proof of the Gaillard-Matveev theorem based on shape invariance arguments
authors: Yves Grandati
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2392
abstract: We propose a simple alternative proof of the Wronskian representation formula obtained by Gaillard and Matveev for the Darboux-P\"oschl-Teller (DPT) potentials. It rests on the use of singular Darboux-B\"acklund transformations applied to the free particle system combined to the shape invariance properties of the DPT.

id: 1211.2397
title: A(2|1) spectral equivalences and nonlocal integrals of motion
authors: P. E. G. Assis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2397
abstract: We study the spectral correspondence between a particular class of Schrodinger equations and supersymmetric quantum integrable model (QIM). The latter, a quantized version of the Ablowitz-Kaupp-Newell-Segur (AKNS) hierarchy of nonlinear equations, corresponds to the thermodynamic limit of the Perk-Schultz lattice model. By analyzing the symmetries of the ordinary differential equation (ODE) in the complex plane, it is possible to obtain important objects in the quantum integrable model in exact form, under an exact spectral correspondence. In this manuscript our main interest lies on the set of nonlocal conserved inte- grals of motion associated to the integrable system and we provide a systematic method to compute their values evaluated on the vacuum state of the quantum field theory.

id: 1211.2474
title: Shell-Filling Effect in the Entanglement Entropies of Spinful Fermions
authors: Fabian H. L. Essler, Andreas M. L?uchli, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 4.5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 115701 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2474
abstract: We consider the von Neumann and R\'enyi entropies of the one dimensional quarter-filled Hubbard model. We observe that for periodic boundary conditions the entropies exhibit an unexpected dependence on system size: for L=4 mod 8 the results are in agreement with expectations based on conformal field theory, while for L=0 mod 8 additional contributions arise. We explain this observation in terms of a shell-filling effect, and develop a conformal field theory approach to calculate the extra term in the entropies. Similar shell filling effects in entanglement entropies are expected to be present in higher dimensions and for other multicomponent systems.

id: 1211.2498
title: Generating Many Majorana Modes via Periodic Driving: A Superconductor Model
authors: Qing-Jun Tong, Jun-Hong An, Jiangbin Gong, Hong-Gang Luo, C. H. Oh
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. B as a Rapid Communication
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 201109(R) (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2498
abstract: Realizing Majorana modes (MMs) in condensed-matter systems is of vast experimental and theoretical interests, and some signatures of MMs have been measured already. To facilitate future experimental observations and to explore further applications of MMs, generating many MMs at ease in an experimentally accessible manner has become one important issue. This task is achieved here in a one-dimensional $p$-wave superconductor system with the nearest- and next-nearest-neighbor interactions. In particular, a periodic modulation of some system parameters can induce an effective long-range interaction (as suggested by the Baker-Campbell-Hausdorff formula) and may recover time-reversal symmetry already broken in undriven cases. By exploiting these two independent mechanisms at once we have established a general method in generating many Floquet MMs via periodic driving.

id: 1211.2544
title: Nonlinear dynamics of electron-positron clusters
authors: Giovanni Manfredi, Paul-Antoine Hervieux, Fernando Haas
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 075012 (2012)
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2544
abstract: Electron-positron clusters are studied using a quantum hydrodynamic model that includes Coulomb and exchange interactions. A variational Lagrangian method is used to determine their stationary and dynamical properties. The cluster static features are validated against existing Hartree-Fock calculations. In the linear response regime, we investigate both dipole and monopole (breathing) modes. The dipole mode is reminiscent of the surface plasmon mode usually observed in metal clusters. The nonlinear regime is explored by means of numerical simulations. We show that, by exciting the cluster with a chirped laser pulse with slowly varying frequency (autoresonance), it is possible to efficiently separate the electron and positron populations on a timescale of a few tens of femtoseconds.

id: 1211.2572
title: Quantum quenches, dynamical transitions and off-equilibrium quantum criticality
authors: Bruno Sciolla, Giulio Biroli
comments: 5 pages; revised version
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2572
abstract: Several mean-field computations have revealed the existence of an out of equilibrium dynamical transition induced by quantum quenching an isolated system starting from its symmetry broken phase. In this work we focus on the quantum phi^4 N-component field theory. By taking into account dynamical fluctuations at the Hartree-Fock level, corresponding to the leading order of the 1/N expansion, we derive the critical properties of the dynamical transition beyond mean-field theory (including at finite temperature). We find diverging time and length-scales, dynamic scaling and aging. Finally, we unveil a relationship with coarsening, an off-equilibrium dynamical regime that can be induced by quenching from the symmetric toward the symmetry broken phase.

id: 1211.2580
title: Information sharing in Quantum Complex Networks
authors: Alessio Cardillo, Fernando Galve, David Zueco, Jes¨²s G¨®mez-Garde?es
comments: text and title updated, published version [Phys. Rev. A 87, 052312 (2013)]
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052312 (2013)
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2580
abstract: We introduce the use of entanglement entropy as a tool for studying the amount of information shared between the nodes of quantum complex networks. By considering the ground state of a network of coupled quantum harmonic oscillators, we compute the information that each node has on the rest of the system. We show that the nodes storing the largest amount of information are not the ones with the highest connectivity, but those with intermediate connectivity thus breaking down the usual hierarchical picture of classical networks. We show both numerically and analytically that the mutual information characterizes the network topology. As a byproduct, our results point out that the amount of information available for an external node connecting to a quantum network allows to determine the network topology.

id: 1211.2613
title: Deterministic Photon Pairs via Coherent Optical Control of a Single Quantum Dot
authors: Harishankar Jayakumar, Ana Predojevi?, Tobias Huber, Thomas Kauten, Glenn S. Solomon, Gregor Weihs
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 135505, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2613
abstract: The strong confinement of semiconductor excitons in a quantum dot gives rise to atom-like behavior. The full benefit of such a structure is best observed in resonant excitation where the excited state can be deterministically populated and coherently manipulated. Due to large refractive index and device geometry it remains challenging to observe resonantly excited emission that is free from laser scattering in III/V self-assembled quantum dots. Here we exploit the biexciton binding energy to create an extremely clean single photon source via two-photon resonant excitation of an InAs/GaAs quantum dot. We observe complete suppression of the excitation laser and multi-photon emissions. Additionally, we perform full coherent control of the ground-biexciton state qubit and observe an extended coherence time using an all-optical echo technique. The deterministic coherent photon pair creation makes this system suitable for the generation of time-bin entanglement and experiments on the interaction of photons from dissimilar sources.

id: 1211.2623
title: Boundary critical phenomena of the random transverse Ising model in D>=2 dimensions
authors: Istv¨¢n A. Kov¨¢cs, Ferenc Igl¨®i
comments: 7 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 024204 (2013)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2623
abstract: Using the strong disorder renormalization group method we study numerically the critical behavior of the random transverse Ising model at a free surface, at a corner and at an edge in D=2, 3 and 4-dimensional lattices. The surface magnetization exponents are found to be: x_s=1.60(2), 2.65(15) and 3.7(1) in D=2, 3 and 4, respectively, which do not depend on the form of disorder. We have also studied critical magnetization profiles in slab, pyramid and wedge geometries with fixed-free boundary conditions and analyzed their scaling behavior.

id: 1211.2652
title: Rovibrational cooling of molecules by optical pumping
authors: I. Manai, R. Horchani, H. Lignier, A. Fioretti, M. Allegrini, P. Pillet, D. Comparat
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 183001 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2652
abstract: We demonstrate rotational and vibrational cooling of cesium dimers by optical pumping techniques. We use two laser sources exciting all the populated rovibrational states, except a target state that thus behaves like a dark state where molecules pile up thanks to absorption-spontaneous emission cycles. We are able to accumulate photoassociated cold Cs2 molecules in their absolute ground state (v = 0, J = 0) with up to 40% efficiency. Given its simplicity, the method could be extended to other molecules and molecular beams. It also opens up general perspectives in laser cooling the external degrees of freedom of molecules.

id: 1211.2654
title: Diagrammatic approach to attosecond delays in photoionization
authors: J. M. Dahlstr?m, T. Carette, E. Lindroth
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2654
abstract: We study laser-assisted photoionization by attosecond pulses using a time-independent formalism based on diagrammatic many-body perturbation theory. Our aim is to provide an ab inito route to the "delays" for this above-threshold ionization process, which is essential for a quantitative understanding of attosecond metrology. We present correction curves for characterization schemes of attosecond pulses, such as "streaking", that account for the delayed atomic response in ionization from neon and argon. We also verify that photoelectron delays from many-electron atoms can be measured using similar schemes if, instead, the so-called continuum--continuum delay is subtracted. Our method is general and it can be extended also to more complex systems and additional correlation effects can be introduced systematically.

id: 1211.2655
title: The role of the Riemann-Silberstein vector in classical and quantum theories of electromagnetism
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Zofia Bialynicka-Birula
comments: Topical review
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 053001; Corrigendum J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 159501
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2655
abstract: It is shown that the use of the Riemann-Silberstein (RS) vector greatly simplifies the description of the electromagnetic field both in the classical domain and in the quantum domain. In this review we describe many specific examples where this vector enables one to significantly shorten the derivations and make them more transparent. We also argue why the RS vector may be considered as the best possible choice for the photon wave function.

id: 1211.2673
title: Dynamical polarizability of atoms in arbitrary light fields: general theory and application to cesium
authors: Fam Le Kien, Philipp Schneeweiss, Arno Rauschenbeutel
comments: see also Supplemental Material
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 67:92 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2673
abstract: We present a systematic derivation of the dynamical polarizability and the ac Stark shift of the ground and excited states of atoms interacting with a far-off-resonance light field of arbitrary polarization. We calculate the scalar, vector, and tensor polarizabilities of atomic cesium using resonance wavelengths and reduced matrix elements for a large number of transitions. We analyze the properties of the fictitious magnetic field produced by the vector polarizability in conjunction with the ellipticity of the polarization of the light field.

id: 1211.2680
title: Stability of spherically trapped three-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensates against macroscopic fragmentation
authors: Philipp Bader, Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 7 pages of RevTex4-1, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023632 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2680
abstract: We consider spherically trapped Bose gases in three dimensions with contact interactions, and investigate whether the Bose-Einstein condensate at zero temperature is stable against macroscopic fragmentation into a small number of mutually incoherent pieces. Our results are expressed in terms of a dimensionless interaction measure proportional to the Thomas-Fermi parameter. It is shown that while three-dimensional condensates are inherently much more stable against macroscopic fragmentation than their quasi-one- and quasi-two-dimensional counterparts, they fragment at a sufficiently large value of the dimensionless interaction measure, which we determine both fully numerically and semianalytically from a continuum limit of large particle numbers.

id: 1211.2704
title: Simulations of non-Abelian gauge theories with optical lattices
authors: L. Tagliacozzo, A. Celi, P. Orland, M.W. Mitchell, M. Lewenstein
comments: V2 revised version with better explanation of the experimental setup, improved description of possible sources of error, similar to the published paper
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2615 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2704
abstract: Many phenomena occurring in strongly correlated quantum systems still await conclusive explanations. The absence of isolated free quarks in nature is an example. It is attributed to quark confinement, whose origin is not yet understood. The phase diagram for nuclear matter at general temperatures and densities, studied in heavy-ion collisions, is not settled. Finally, we have no definitive theory of high-temperature superconductivity. Though we have theories that could underlie such physics, we lack the tools to determine the experimental consequences of these theories. Quantum simulators may provide such tools. Here we show how to engineer quantum simulators of non-Abelian lattice gauge theories. The systems we consider have several applications: they can be used to mimic quark confinement or to study dimer and valence-bond states (which may be relevant for high-temperature superconductors).

id: 1211.2831
title: Nonlinear Wightman fields
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: v2: 22 pages, much expansion and refinement. v1:16 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2831
abstract: A nonlinear Wightman field is taken to be a nonlinear map from a linear space of test functions to a linear space of Hilbert space operators, with inessential modifications to other axioms only to the extent dictated by the introduction of nonlinearity. Two approaches to nonlinear quantum fields are constructed and discussed, the first of which, starting from Lagrangian QFT, offers a fresh perspective on renormalization, while the second, starting from linear Wightman fields, provides an extensive range of well-defined nonlinear theories.

id: 1211.2856
title: Carrier-Envelope-Phase Dependent Dissociation of Hydrogen
authors: Han Xu, J - P Maclean, D E Laban, W C Wallace, D Kielpinski, R T Sang, I V Litvinyuk
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2856
abstract: We studied dependence of dissociative ionization in H2 on carrier-envelope phase (CEP) of few-cycle (6fs) near-infrared (NIR) laser pulses. For low-energy channels, we present the first experimental observation of CEP dependence for total dissociation yield and the highest dwgree of asymmetry reported to date (40%). The observed modulations in both asymmetry and total yield could be understood in terms of interference between different n-photon dissociation pathways - n and (n+1) photon channels for asymmetry, n and (n+2) photon channels for yield - as suggested by the general theory of CEP effects (Roudnev and Esry, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 220406 (2007), [1]). The yield modulation is found to be Pi-periodic in CEP, with its phase strongly dependent on fragment kinetic energy (and reversing its sign within the studied energy range), indicating that the dissociation does not simply follow the CEP dependence of maximum electric field, as a naive intuition might suggest. We also find that a positively chirped pulse can lead to a higher dissociation probability than a transform limited pulse.

id: 1211.2909
title: Bosonization and vertex operator of supersymmetry $u_q(\hat{sl}(n|1))$ for level $k$
authors: Takeo Kojima
comments: LaTEX, 5pages, Proceedings of International Conference on Mathematical Modeling in Physical Sciences, Budapest, Hungary, September 3-7, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2909
abstract: We construct a bosonization of the quantum superalgebra $U_q(\hat{sl}(N|1))$ for an arbitrary level $k$. We construct the screening that commutes with the quantum superalgebra for an arbitrary level $k \neq -N+1$. We propose a bosonization of the vertex operator that gives the intertwiner among the Wakimoto realization and the typical representation.

id: 1211.2931
title: Stability and dynamics of ion rings in linear multipole traps
authors: Florian Cartarius, Cecilia Cormick, Giovanna Morigi
comments: Version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A, 10 pages, 9 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013425 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2931
abstract: Trapped singly-charged ions can crystallize as a result of laser cooling. The emerging structure depends on the number of particles and on the geometry of the trapping potential. In linear multipole radiofrequency traps, the geometry of the radial potential can lead to the formation of single-ring structures. We analyse the conditions and stability of single rings as a function of the number of poles. For larger numbers of ions the rings form tubes in which the arrangement of the ions corresponds to a triangular lattice folded onto a cylinder. The stability of these tubular structures is numerically studied for different lattice constants and their normal mode spectrum is determined.

id: 1211.2956
title: Quantum thermalization and equilibrium state with multiple temperatures
authors: Quntao Zhuang, Biao Wu
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 11 (2014) 085501
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2956
abstract: A large class of isolated quantum system in a pure state can equilibrate and serve as a heat bath. We show that once the equilibrium is reached, any of its subsystems that is much smaller than the isolated system is thermalized such that the subsystem is governed by the Gibbs distribution. Within this theoretical framework, the celebrated superposition principle of quantum mechanics leads to a prediction of a thermalized subsystem with multiple temperatures when the isolated system is in a superposition state of energy eigenstates of multiple distinct energy scales. This multiple-temperature state is at equilibrium, completely different from a non-equilibrium state that has multiple temperatures at different parts. Feasible experimental schemes to verify this prediction are discussed.

id: 1211.2957
title: New families of superintegrable systems from Hermite and Laguerre exceptional orthogonal polynomials
authors: Ian Marquette, Christiane Quesne
comments: 24 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 042102 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.2957
abstract: In recent years, many exceptional orthogonal polynomials (EOP) were introduced and used to construct new families of 1D exactly solvable quantum potentials, some of which are shape invariant. In this paper, we construct from Hermite and Laguerre EOP and their related quantum systems new 2D superintegrable Hamiltonians with higher-order integrals of motion and the polynomial algebras generated by their integrals of motion. We obtain the finite-dimensional unitary representations of the polynomial algebras and the corresponding energy spectrum. We also point out a new type of degeneracies of the energy levels of these systems that is associated with holes in sequences of EOP.

id: 1211.3001
title: Plane waves in noncommutative fluids
authors: M. C. B. Abdalla, L. Holender, M. A. Santos, I. V. Vancea
comments: 11 pages. Version published as a Letter
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3001
abstract: We study the dynamics of the noncommutative fuid in the Snyder space perturbatively at the fi?rst order in powers of the noncommutative parameter. The linearized noncommutative fluid dynamics is described by a system of coupled linear partial diff?erential equations in which the variables are the fluid density and the fluid potentials. We show that these equations admit a set of solutions that are monocromatic plane waves for the fluid density and two of the potentials and a linear function for the third potential. The energy-momentum tensor of the plane waves is calculated.

id: 1211.3032
title: Spin decoherence due to Fluctuating Fields
authors: Piotr Sza¨½kowski, M. Trippenbach, Y. B. Band
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. Phys. Rev. E (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3032
abstract: The dynamics of a spin in the presence of a deterministic and a fluctuating magnetic field is solved for analytically to obtain the averaged value of the spin as a function of time for various kinds of fluctuations (noise). Specifically, analytic results are obtained for the time dependence of the expectation value of the spin, averaged over fluctuations, for Gaussian white noise and Guassian colored noise, as well as non-Gaussian telegraph noise. Fluctuations cause the decay of the average spin vector (decoherence). For noise with finite temporal correlation time, a deterministic component of the field can suppress decoherence of the spin component along the field. Hence, decoherence can be manipulated by controlling the deterministic magnetic field. A simple universal physical picture emerges which explains the mechanism of the suppression of the decay.

id: 1211.3203
title: Robust entangled qutrit states in atmospheric turbulence
authors: Tobias Bruenner, Filippus S Roux
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3203
abstract: The entangled quantum state of a photon pair propagating through atmospheric turbulence suffers decay of entanglement due to the scintillation it experiences. Here we investigate the robustness against this decay for different qutrit states. We use an infinitesimal-propagation equation to obtain the density matrix as a function of the propagation distance and we use the tangle to quantify the entanglement between a pair of qutrits. The evolution of various initial states as they propagate through turbulence is considered. Using optimization of the initial parameters, we obtain expressions for bipartite qutrit states that retain their initial entanglement longer than the initially maximally entangled states.

id: 1211.3317
title: Quantum phases of quadrupolar Fermi gases in optical lattices
authors: Satyan G. Bhongale, Ludwig Mathey, Erhai Zhao, Susanne F. Yelin, Mikhail Lemeshko
comments: 4 pages + supplemental material; a typo corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 155301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3317
abstract: We introduce a new platform for quantum simulation of many-body systems based on nonspherical atoms or molecules with zero dipole moment but possessing a significant value of electric quadrupole moment. We consider a quadrupolar Fermi gas trapped in a 2D square optical lattice, and show that the peculiar symmetry and broad tunability of the quadrupole-quadrupole interaction results in a rich phase diagram encompassing unconventional BCS and charge density wave phases, and opens up a perspective to create topological superfluid. Quadrupolar species, such as metastable alkaline-earth atoms and homonuclear molecules, are stable against chemical reactions and collapse and are readily available in experiment at high densities.

id: 1211.3353
title: Matrix Product States for Trial Quantum Hall States
authors: B. Estienne, Z. Papic, N. Regnault, B. A. Bernevig
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 161112(R) (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3353
abstract: We obtain an exact matrix-product-state (MPS) representation of a large series of fractional quantum Hall (FQH) states in various geometries of genus 0. The states in question include all paired k=2 Jack polynomials, such as the Moore-Read and Gaffnian states, as well as the Read-Rezayi k=3 state. We also outline the procedures through which the MPS of other model FQH states can be obtained, provided their wavefunction can be written as a correlator in a 1+1 conformal field theory (CFT). The auxiliary Hilbert space of the MPS, which gives the counting of the entanglement spectrum, is then simply the Hilbert space of the underlying CFT. This formalism enlightens the link between entanglement spectrum and edge modes. Properties of model wavefunctions such as the thin-torus root partitions and squeezing are recast in the MPS form, and numerical benchmarks for the accuracy of the new MPS prescription in various geometries are provided.

id: 1211.3488
title: Observation of optical-fiber Kerr nonlinearity at the single-photon level
authors: Nobuyuki Matsuda, Ryosuke Shimizu, Yasuyoshi Mitsumori, Hideo Kosaka, Keiichi Edamatsu
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 3, 95 - 98 (2009)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3488
abstract: Optical fibers have been enabling numerous distinguished applications involving the operation and generation of light, such as soliton transmission, light amplification, all-optical switching and supercontinuum generation. The active function of optical fibers in the quantum regime is expected to be applicable to ultralow-power all-optical signal processing and quantum information processing. Here we demonstrate the first experimental observation of optical nonlinearity at the single-photon level in an optical fiber. Taking advantage of large nonlinearity and managed dispersion of a photonic crystal fiber, we have successfully measured very small (10^(-7) ~ 10^(-8)) conditional phase shifts induced by weak coherent pulses that contain one or less than one photon per pulse on average. In spite of its tininess, the phase shift was measurable using much (~10^6 times) stronger coherent probe pulses than the pump pulses. We discuss the feasibility of quantum information processing using optical fibers, taking into account the observed Kerr nonlinearity accompanied by ultrafast response time and low induced loss.

id: 1211.3498
title: The Quantum Zeno Effect -- Watched Pots in the Quantum World
authors: Anu Venugopalan
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Resonance: Journal of Science Education, Vol 12 (4), p52, April 2007
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3498
abstract: In the 5th century B.C.,the philosopher and logician Zeno of Elea posed several paradoxes which remained unresolved for over two thousand five hundred years. The $20^{th}$ century saw some resolutions to Zeno's mind boggling problems. This long journey saw many significant milestones in the form of discoveries like the tools of converging series and theories on infinite sets in mathematics. In recent times, the Zeno effect made an intriguing appearance in a rather unlikely place - a situation involving the time evolution of a quantum system, which is subject to "observations" over a period of time. Leonid Khalfin working in the former USSR in the 1960s and ECG Sudarshan and B. Misra at the University of Texas, Austin, first drew attention to this problem. In 1977, ECG Sudarshan and B. Misra published a paper on the quantum Zeno effect, called "The Zeno's paradox in quantum theory". Their fascinating result revealed the bizarre workings of the quantum world. Misra and Sudarshan's 1977 paper activated over two decades of theoretical and experimental explorations into the subject and still continues to evoke a lot of interest. In the following, the quantum Zeno effect is described and a brief outline of some of the work following Misra and Sudarshan's paper is given. The quantum Zeno effect is yet another example of the myriad unimaginable possibilities that lie waiting in the magical world of the quantum.

id: 1211.3525
title: Modular Theory for Operator Algebra in Bounded Region of Space-Time and Quantum Entanglement
authors: Daisuke Ida, Takahiro Okamoto, Miyuki Saito
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3525
abstract: We consider the quantum state seen by an observer in the diamond-shaped region, which is a globally hyperbolic open submanifold of the Minkowski space-time. It is known from the operator-algebraic argument that the vacuum state of the quantum field transforming covariantly under the conformal group looks like a thermal state on the von Neumann algebra generated by the field operators on the diamond-shaped region of the Minkowski space-time. Here, we find, in the case of the free massless Hermitian scalar field in the 2-dimensional Minkowski space-time, that such a state can in fact be identified with a certain entangled quantum state. By doing this, we obtain the thermodynamic quantities such as the Casimir energy and the von Neumann entropy of the thermal state in the diamond-shaped region, and show that the Bekenstein bound for the entropy-to-energy ratio is saturated. We further speculate on a possible information-theoretic interpretation of the entropy in terms of the probability density functions naturally determined from the Tomita-Takesaki modular flow in the diamond-shaped region.

id: 1211.3597
title: Effects of colored noise on Landau-Zener Transitions: Two and Three-Level Systems
authors: M. B. Kenmoe, H. N. Phien, M. N. Kiselev, L. C. Fai
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 224301 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3597
abstract: We investigate the Landau-Zener transition in two- and three- level systems subject to a classical Gaussian noise. Two complementary limits of the noise being fast and slow compared to characteristic Landau-Zener tunnel times are discussed. The analytical solution of a density matrix (Bloch) equation is given for a long time asymptotic of transition probability. It is demonstrated that the transition probability induced/assisted by the fast noise can be obtained through a procedure of {\it Bloch's equation averaging} with further reduction it to a master equation. In contrast to the case of fast noise, the transition probability for LZ transition induced/assisted by the slow classical noise can be obtained by averaging a {\it solution} of Bloch's equation over the noise realization. As a result, the transition probability is described by the activation Arrhenius law. The approximate solution of the Bloch's equation at finite times is written in terms of Fresnel's integrals and interpreted in terms of interference pattern. We discuss consequences of a local isomorphism between SU(2) and SO(3) groups and connections between Schr\"odinger and Bloch descriptions of spin dynamics. Based on this isomorphism we establish the relations between S=1/2 and S=1 transition probabilities influenced by the noise. A possibility to use the slow noise as a probe for tunnel time is discussed.

id: 1211.3598
title: Trion and Dimer Formation of Three-Color Fermions
authors: J. Pohlmann, A. Privitera, I. Titvinidze, W. Hofstetter
comments: 9 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023617 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3598
abstract: We study the problem of three ultracold fermions in different hyperfine states loaded into a lattice with spatial dimension D=1,2. We consider SU(3)-symmetric attractive interactions and also eventually include a three-body constraint, which mimics the effect of three-body losses in the strong-loss regime. We combine exact diagonalization with the Lanczos algorithm, and evaluate both the eigenvalues and the eigenstates of the problem. In D=1, we find that the ground state is always a three-body bound state (trion) for arbitrarily small interaction, while in D=2, due to the stronger influence of finite-size effects, we are not able to provide conclusive evidence of the existence of a finite threshold for trion formation. Our data are however compatible with a threshold value which vanishes logarithmically with the size of the system. Moreover we are able to identify the presence of a fine structure inside the spectrum, which is associated with off-site trionic states. The characterization of these states shows that only the long-distance behavior of the eigenstate wavefunctions provides clear-cut signatures about the nature of bound states and that onsite observables are not enough to discriminate between them. The inclusion of a three-body constraint due to losses promotes these off-site trions to the role of lowest energy states, at least in the strong-coupling regime.

id: 1211.3816
title: Is a tabletop search for Planck scale signals feasible?
authors: Jacob D. Bekenstein
comments: 9 pages, two jpg figures, RevTeX, added references, effects of dispersion shown negligible, quantum black hole argument tightened, more noise sources analyzed, summary section added. To appear in Physical Review D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 86, 124040 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3816
abstract: Quantum gravity theory is untested experimentally. Could it be tested with tabletop experiments? While the common feeling is pessimistic, a detailed inquiry shows it possible to sidestep the onerous requirement of localization of a probe on Planck length scale. I suggest a tabletop experiment which, given state of the art ultrahigh vacuum and cryogenic technology, could already be sensitive enough to detect Planck scale signals. The experiment combines a single photon's degree of freedom with one of a macroscopic probe to test Wheeler's conception of "quantum foam", the assertion that on length scales of the order Planck's, spacetime is no longer a smooth manifold. The scheme makes few assumptions beyond energy and momentum conservations, and is not based on a specific quantum gravity scheme.

id: 1211.3848
title: Breather mode in the many-electron dynamics of semiconductor quantum wells
authors: F. Haas, G. Manfredi, P. K. Shukla, P.-A. Hervieux
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 80, 073301 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3848
abstract: We demonstrate the existence of a novel breather mode in the self-consistent electron dynamics of a semiconductor quantum well. A non-perturbative variational method based on quantum hydrodynamics is used to determine the salient features of the electron breather mode. Numerical simulations of the time-dependent Wigner-Poisson or Hartree equations are shown to be in excellent agreement with our analytical results. For asymmetric quantum wells, a signature of the breather mode is observed in the dipole response, which can be detected by standard optical means.

id: 1211.3875
title: Fluctuation-Electromagnetic Interaction: Effects of Uniform Motion, Rotation, and Thermal Disequilibrium
authors: G. V. Dedkov, A. A. Kyasov
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: in: Hanbook of Functional Nanomaterials, Ed. by M. Aliofkhazraei, Vol.1, p.177-199 (Nova Science Publ., N.Y. 2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3875
abstract: In this work, we give a consistent review of recent analytical results of reference character related to the fluctuation-electromagnetic interactions in the systems particle-vacuum, particle-surface, particle-particle, and surface-surface. Effects of dynamical, rotational, and thermal disequilibrium are considered. The applications of these results are important in atomic and molecular physics, quantum field theory and nanotechnology.

id: 1211.3971
title: Group-Theoretical Derivation of Aharonov-Bohm Phase Shifts
authors: C. R. Hagen
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3971
abstract: The phase shifts of the Aharonov-Bohm effect are generally determined by means of the partial wave decomposition of the underlying Schrodinger equation. It is shown here that they readily emerge from an o(2,1) calculation of the energy levels employing an added harmonic oscillator potential which discretizes the spectrum.

id: 1211.4035
title: Dissipative binding of atoms by non-conservative forces
authors: Mikhail Lemeshko, Hendrik Weimer
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Commun. 4, 2230 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4035
abstract: The formation of molecules and supramolecular structures results from bonding by conservative forces acting among electrons and nuclei and giving rise to equilibrium configurations defined by minima of the interaction potential. Here we show that bonding can also occur by the non-conservative forces responsible for interaction-induced coherent population trapping. The bound state arises in a dissipative process and manifests itself as a stationary state at a preordained interatomic distance. Remarkably, such a dissipative bonding is present even when the interactions among the atoms are purely repulsive. The dissipative bound states can be created and studied spectroscopically in present-day experiments with ultracold atoms or molecules and can potentially serve for cooling strongly interacting quantum gases.

id: 1211.4054
title: Bounds on universal quantum computation with perturbed 2d cluster states
authors: R. Orus, H. Kalis, M. Bornemann, K. P. Schmidt
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, revised version, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062312 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4054
abstract: Motivated by the possibility of universal quantum computation under noise perturbations, we compute the phase diagram of the 2d cluster state Hamiltonian in the presence of Ising terms and magnetic fields. Unlike in previous analysis of perturbed 2d cluster states, we find strong evidence of a very well defined cluster phase, separated from a polarized phase by a line of 1st and 2nd order transitions compatible with the 3d Ising universality class and a tricritical end point. The phase boundary sets an upper bound for the amount of perturbation in the system so that its ground state is still useful for measurement-based quantum computation purposes. Moreover, we also compute the local fidelity with the unperturbed 2d cluster state. Besides a classical approximation, we determine the phase diagram by combining series expansions and variational infinite Projected entangled-Pair States (iPEPS) methods. Our work constitutes the first analysis of the non-trivial effect of few-body perturbations in the 2d cluster state, which is of relevance for experimental proposals.

id: 1211.4086
title: A multiprecision C++ library for matrix-product-state simulation of quantum computing: Evaluation of numerical errors
authors: Akira SaiToh
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, v2: minor revision, to appear in the proceedings of CCP2012 (14-18 Oct. 2012, Kobe, Japan)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 454, 012064 (2013)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4086
abstract: The time-dependent matrix-product-state (TDMPS) simulation method has been used for numerically simulating quantum computing for a decade. We introduce our C++ library ZKCM_QC developed for multiprecision TDMPS simulations of quantum circuits. Besides its practical usability, the library is useful for evaluation of the method itself. With the library, we can capture two types of numerical errors in the TDMPS simulations: one due to rounding errors caused by the shortage in mantissa portions of floating-point numbers; the other due to truncations of nonnegligible Schmidt coefficients and their corresponding Schmidt vectors. We numerically analyze these errors in TDMPS simulations of quantum computing.

id: 1211.4187
title: Magnetization Noise Induced Collapse and Revival of Rabi Oscillations in circuit QED
authors: Amrit De, Robert Joynt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4187
abstract: We use a quasi Hamiltonian formalism to describe the dissipative dynamics of a circuit QED qubit that is affected by several fluctuating two level systems with a 1/f noise power spectrum. The qubit-resonator interactions are described by the Jaynes Cummings model. We argue that the presence of pure dephasing noise in such a qubit-resonator system will also induce an energy relaxation mechanism via a fluctuating dipole coupling term. This random modulation of the coupling is seen to lead to rich physical behavior. For non-Markovian noise, the coupling can either worsen or alleviate decoherence depending on the initial conditions. The magnetization noise leads to behavior resembling the collapse and revival of Rabi oscillations. For a broad distribution of noise couplings, the frequency of these oscillations depends on the mean noise strength. We describe this behavior semi-analytically and find it to be independent of the number of fluctuators. This phenomenon could be used as an in situ probe of the noise characteristics.

id: 1211.4232
title: Hawking Radiation in de Sitter Space: Calculation of the Reflection Coefficient for Quantum Particles
authors: V. Red'kov, E. Ovsiyuk, G. Krylov
comments: 18 pages, Report to XLVIII All-Russia conference on problems in Particle Physics, Plasma Physics, Condensed Matter, and Optoelectronics. Russia, Moscow, 15-18 May 2012, dedicated to the 100-th anniversary of Professor Ya.P. Terletsk; to be published in Vestnik RUDN, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4232
abstract: Though the problem of Hawking radiation in de Sitter space-time, in particular details of penetration of a quantum mechanical particle through the de Sitter horizon, has been examined intensively there is still some vagueness in this subject. The present paper aims to clarify the situation. A known algorithm for calculation of the reflection coefficient $R_{\epsilon j}$ on the background of the de Sitter space-time model is analyzed. It is shown that the determination of $R_{\epsilon j}$ requires an additional constrain on quantum numbers $\epsilon R / \hbar c >> j$, where $R$ is a curvature radius. When taking into account this condition, the value of $R_{\epsilon j}$ turns out to be precisely zero. It is shown that the basic instructive definition for the calculation of the reflection coefficient in de Sitter model is grounded exclusively on the use of zero order approximation in the expansion of a particle wave function in a series on small parameter $1/R^{2}$, and it demonstrated that this recipe cannot be extended on accounting for contributions of higher order terms. So the result $R_{\epsilon j}=0$ which has been obtained from examining zero-order term persists and cannot be improved. It is claimed that the alculation of the reflection coefficient $R_{\epsilon j}$ is not required at all because there is no barrier in the effective potential curve on the background of the de Sitter space-time, the later correlate with the fact that the problem in de Sitter space reduces to a second order differential equation with only three singular points. However all known quantum mechanical problems with potentials containing one barrier reduce to a second order differential equation with four singular points, the equation of Heun class.

id: 1211.4395
title: Nonequilibrium work by quantum projective measurements
authors: Juyeon Yi, Yong Woon Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4395
abstract: We study the thermodynamics of quantum projective measurements by using the set up for the Jarzynski equality. We prove the fluctuations of energy change induced by measurements satisfy the Jarzynski equality, revealing that the quantum projective measurements perform a work on a measured system. When the system is brought into a thermal contact with a reservoir after measurements, the work done by projective measurements is totally dissipated in the form of heat from the system into the reservoir. Explicitly showing that the measurements always increase the total entropy, we prove the link between the second law of thermodynamics and the quantum measurement, and also provide a clue to the Landau-Lifshitz conjecture on the thermodynamic consequence of measurements.

id: 1211.4398
title: Ground-state stability and criticality of two-electron atoms with screened Coulomb potentials using the B-splines basis set
authors: Pablo Serra, Sabre Kais
comments: 
journal: Journal Of Physics B 45, 235003 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4398
abstract: We applied the finite-size scaling method using the B-splines basis set to construct the stability diagram for two-electron atoms with a screened Coulomb potential. The results of this method for two electron atoms are very accurate in comparison with previous calculations based on Gaussian, Hylleraas, and finite-element basis sets. The stability diagram for the screened two-electron atoms shows three distinct regions: a two-electron region, a one-electron region, and a zero-electron region, which correspond to stable, ionized and double ionized atoms. In previous studies, it was difficult to extend the finite size scaling calculations to large molecules and extended systems because of the computational cost and the lack of a simple way to increase the number of Gaussian basis elements in a systematic way. Motivated by recent studies showing how one can use B-splines to solve Hartree-Fock and Kohn-Sham equations, this combined finite size scaling using the B-splines basis set, might provide an effective systematic way to treat criticality of large molecules and extended systems. As benchmark calculations, the two-electron systems show the feasibility of this combined approach and provide an accurate reference for comparison.

id: 1211.4403
title: Conformal mechanics
authors: Joanna Gonera
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures, few references added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4403
abstract: The SL(2,R) invariant Hamiltonian systems are discussed within the frame- work of the orbit method. It is shown that both dynamics and symmetry trans- formations are globally well-defined on phase space. The flexibility in the choice of time variable and Hamiltonian function described in the paper by de Alfaro et al. (Nuovo Cim. 34A (1976),569) is related to the nontrivial global structure of 1 + 0-dimensional space-time. The operational definition of time is discussed.

id: 1211.4476
title: Observation of Topological Phase Transitions in Photonic Quasicrystals
authors: Mor Verbin, Oded Zilberberg, Yaacov E. Kraus, Yoav Lahini, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, 2 appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 076403 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4476
abstract: Topological insulators and topological superconductors are distinguished by their bulk phase transitions and gapless states at a sharp boundary with the vacuum. Quasicrystals have recently been found to be topologically nontrivial. In quasicrystals, the bulk phase transitions occur in the same manner as standard topological materials, but their boundary phenomena are more subtle. In this Letter we directly observe bulk phase transitions, using photonic quasicrystals, by constructing a smooth boundary between topologically distinct one-dimensional quasicrystals. Moreover, we use the same method to experimentally confirm the topological equivalence between the Harper and Fibonacci quasicrystals.

id: 1211.4537
title: Long-range interacting many-body systems with alkaline-earth-metal atoms
authors: B. Olmos, D. Yu, Y. Singh, F. Schreck, K. Bongs, I. Lesanovsky
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 143602 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4537
abstract: Alkaline-earth-metal atoms exhibit long-range dipolar interactions, which are generated via the coherent exchange of photons on the 3P_0-3D_1-transition of the triplet manifold. In case of bosonic strontium, which we discuss here, this transition has a wavelength of 2.7 \mu m and a dipole moment of 2.46 Debye, and there exists a magic wavelength permitting the creation of optical lattices that are identical for the states 3P_0 and 3D_1. This interaction enables the realization and study of mixtures of hard-core lattice bosons featuring long-range hopping, with tuneable disorder and anisotropy. We derive the many-body Master equation, investigate the dynamics of excitation transport and analyze spectroscopic signatures stemming from coherent long-range interactions and collective dissipation. Our results show that lattice gases of alkaline-earth-metal atoms permit the creation of long-lived collective atomic states and constitute a simple and versatile platform for the exploration of many-body systems with long-range interactions. As such, they represent an alternative to current related efforts employing Rydberg gases, atoms with large magnetic moment, or polar molecules.

id: 1211.4737
title: Thermodynamic and quantum bounds on nonlinear DC thermoelectric transport
authors: Robert S. Whitney
comments: 8pages (2figs) version2 (PRB version) minor improvements of earlier version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 115404 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4737
abstract: I consider the non-equilibrium DC transport of electrons through a quantum system with a thermoelectric response. This system may be any nanostructure or molecule modeled by the nonlinear scattering theory which includes Hartree-like electrostatic interactions exactly, and certain dynamic interaction effects (decoherence and relaxation) phenomenologically. This theory is believed to be a reasonable model when single-electron charging effects are negligible. I derive three fundamental bounds for such quantum systems coupled to multiple macroscopic reservoirs, one of which may be superconducting. These bounds affect nonlinear heating (such as Joule heating), work and entropy production. Two bounds correspond to the first law and second law of thermodynamics in classical physics. The third bound is quantum (wavelength dependent), and is as important as the thermodynamic ones in limiting the capabilities of mesoscopic heat-engines and refrigerators. The quantum bound also leads to Nernst's unattainability principle that the quantum system cannot cool a reservoir to absolute zero in a finite time, although it can get exponentially close.

id: 1211.4745
title: The effect of environmental coupling on tunneling of quasiparticles in Josephson junctions
authors: Mohammad H. Ansari, Frank K. Wilhelm, Urbasi Sinha, Aninda Sinha
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Supercond. Sci. Technol. 26 (2013) 125013
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4745
abstract: We study quasiparticle tunneling in Josephson tunnel junctions embedded in an electromagnetic environment. We identify tunneling processes that transfer electrical charge and couple to the environment in a way similar to that of normal electrons, and processes that mix electrons and holes and are thus creating charge superpositions. The latter are sensitive to the phase difference between the superconductor and are thus limited by phase diffusion even at zero temperature. We show that the environmental coupling is suppressed in many environments, thus leading to lower quasiparticle decay rates and thus better superconductor qubit coherence than previously expected. Our approach is nonperturbative in the environmental coupling strength.

id: 1211.4773
title: Time-integrated observables as order parameters for dynamical phase transitions in closed quantum systems
authors: James M. Hickey, Sam Genway, Igor Lesanovsky, Juan P. Garrahan
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 184303 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4773
abstract: The dynamical behaviour of many-body systems is often richer than what can be anticipated from their static properties. Here we show that in closed quantum systems this becomes evident by considering time-integrated observables as order parameters. In particular, the analytic properties of their generating functions, as estimated by full-counting statistics, allow to identify dynamical phases, i.e. phases with specific fluctuation properties of time-integrated observables, and to locate the transitions between these phases. We discuss in detail the case of the quantum Ising chain in a transverse field. We show that this model displays a continuum of quantum dynamical transitions, of which the static transition is just an end point. These singularities are not a consequence of particular choices of initial conditions or other external non-equilibrium protocols such as quenches in coupling constants. They can be probed generically through quantum jump statistics of an associated open problem, and for the case of the quantum Ising chain we outline a possible experimental realisation of this scheme by digital quantum simulation with cold ions.

id: 1211.4791
title: Time-dependent q-deformed coherent states for generalized uncertainty relations
authors: Sanjib Dey, Andreas Fring, Laure Gouba, Paulo G. Castro
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review D 87, 084033 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4791
abstract: We investigate properties of generalized time-dependent q-deformed coherent states for a noncommutative harmonic oscillator. The states are shown to satisfy a generalized version of Heisenberg's uncertainty relations. For the initial value in time the states are demonstrated to be squeezed, i.e. the inequalities are saturated, whereas when time evolves the uncertainty product oscillates away from this value albeit still respecting the relations. For the canonical variables on a noncommutative space we verify explicitly that Ehrenfest's theorem hold at all times. We conjecture that the model exhibits revival times to infinite order. Explicit sample computations for the fractional revival times and superrevival times are presented.

id: 1211.4793
title: Optomechanical Generation of a photonic Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Martin Weitz, Jan Klaers, Frank Vewinger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 045601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4793
abstract: We propose to thermalize a low-dimensional photon gas and obtain photon Bose-Einstein condensation by optomechanical interactions in a microscopic optical cavity, with a single longitudinal mode and many transverse modes. The geometry of the short cavity is such that it provides a low-frequency cutoff at a photon energy far above the thermal energy, so that thermal emission of photons is suppressed and the photon number is conserved. While previous experiments on photon Bose-Einstein condensation have used dye molecules for photon gas thermalization, we here investigate thermalization owing to interactions with thermally fluctuating nanomechanical oscillators forming the cavity mirrors. In the quantum degenerate regime, the nanomechanical cavity converts broadband optical radiation into tuneable coherent radiation.

id: 1211.4877
title: Commutation relations of operator monomials
authors: Jean-Christophe Pain
comments: submitted to J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4877
abstract: In this short paper, the commutator of monomials of operators obeying constant commutation relations is expressed in terms of anticommutators. The formula involves Bernoulli numbers or Euler polynomials evaluated in zero. The role of Bernoulli numbers in quantum-mechanical identities such as the Baker-Campbell-Hausdorff formula is emphasized and applications connected to ordering problems as well as to Ehrenfest theorem are proposed.

id: 1211.4903
title: Optimized Unrestricted Kohn-Sham Potentials from Ab Initio Spin Densities
authors: Katharina Boguslawski, Christoph R. Jacob, Markus Reiher
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 138, 044111 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4903
abstract: The reconstruction of the exchange-correlation potential from accurate ab initio electron densities can provide insights into the limitations of the currently available approximate functionals and provide guidance for devising improved approximations for density-functional theory (DFT). For open-shell systems, the spin density is introduced as an additional fundamental variable in Spin-DFT. Here, we consider the reconstruction of the corresponding unrestricted Kohn-Sham potentials from accurate ab initio spin densities. In particular, we investigate whether it is possible to reconstruct the spin exchange-correlation potential, which determines the spin density in spin-unrestricted Kohn-Sham-DFT, despite the numerical difficulties inherent to the optimization of potentials with finite orbital basis sets. We find that the recently developed scheme for unambiguously singling out an optimal optimized potential [J. Chem. Phys. 135, 244102 (2011)] can provide such spin potentials accurately. This is demonstrated for two test cases, the lithium atom and the dioxygen molecule, and target (spin) densities from Full-CI and CASSCF calculations, respectively.

id: 1211.5014
title: Quantum interferometry at zero and finite temperature with two-mode bosonic Josephson junctions
authors: G. Mazzarella
comments: Accepted for publication in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 10, Issue 8, 1241008 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5014
abstract: We analyze phase interferometry realized with a bosonic Josephson junction made of trapped dilute and ultracold atoms. By using a suitable phase sensitivity indicator we study the zero temperature junction states useful to achieve sub shot-noise precisions. Sub shot-noise phase shift sensitivities can be reached even at finite temperature under a suitable choice of the junction state. We infer a scaling law in terms of the size system (that is, the number of particles) for the temperature at which the shot-noise limit is not overcome anymore

id: 1211.5109
title: Generalized coherent states for time-dependent and nonlinear Hamiltonians via complex Riccati equations
authors: Octavio Casta?os, Dieter Schuch, Oscar Rosas-Ortiz
comments: 25 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 075304
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5109
abstract: Based on the Gaussian wave packet solution for the harmonic oscillator and the corresponding creation and annihilation operators, a generalization is presented that also applies for wave packets with time-dependent width as they occur for systems with different initial conditions, time-dependent frequency or in contact with a dissipative environment. In all these cases the corresponding coherent states, position and momentum uncertainties and quantum mechanical energy contributions can be obtained in the same form if the creation and annihilation operators are expressed in terms of a complex variable that fulfills a nonlinear Riccati equation which determines the time-evolution of the wave packet width. The solutions of this Riccati equation depend on the physical system under consideration and on the (complex) initial conditions and have close formal similarities with general superpotentials leading to isospectral potentials in supersymmetric quantum mechanics. The definition of the generalized creation and annihilation operator is also in agreement with a factorization of the operator corresponding to the Ermakov invariant that exists in all cases considered.

id: 1211.5145
title: Universal Rephasing Dynamics after a Quantum Quench via Sudden Coupling of Two Initially Independent Condensates
authors: Emanuele G. Dalla Torre, Eugene Demler, Anatoli Polkovnikov
comments: 4+4pages, 7 figures, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 090404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5145
abstract: We consider a quantum quench in which two initially independent condensates are suddenly coupled, and study the subsequent "rephasing" dynamics. For weak couplings, the time-evolution of physical observables is predicted to follow universal scaling laws, connecting the short-time dynamics to the long-time non-perturbative regime. We first present a two-mode model valid in two and three dimensions and then move to one dimension, where the problem is described by a gapped Sine-Gordon theory. Combining analytical and numerical methods, we compute universal time-dependent expectation values, allowing a quantitative comparison with future experiments.

id: 1211.5174
title: Finite temperature current densities and Bose-Einstein condensation in topologically nontrivial spaces
authors: E. R. Bezerra de Mello, A. A. Saharian
comments: 25 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87 (2013) 045015
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5174
abstract: We investigate the finite temperature expectation values of the charge and current densities for a complex scalar field with nonzero chemical potential in background of a flat spacetime with spatial topology $R^{p}\times (S^{1})^{q}$. Along compact dimensions quasiperiodicity conditions with general phases are imposed on the field. In addition, we assume the presence of a constant gauge field which, due to the nontrivial topology of background space, leads to Aharonov-Bohm-like effects on the expectation values. By using the Abel-Plana-type summation formula and zeta function techniques, two different representations are provided for both the current and charge densities. The current density has nonzero components along the compact dimensions only and, in the absence of a gauge field, it vanishes for special cases of twisted and untwisted scalar fields. In the high-temperature limit, the current density and the topological part in the charge density are linear functions of the temperature. The Bose-Einstein condensation for a fixed value of the charge is discussed. The expression for the chemical potential is given in terms of the lengths of compact dimensions, temperature and gauge field. It is shown that the parameters of the phase transition can be controlled by tuning the gauge field. The separate contributions to the charge and current densities coming from the Bose-Einstein condensate and from excited states are also investigated.

id: 1211.5195
title: Enhanced up-conversion of entangled photons and quantum interference under localized field in nanostructures
authors: Yoshiki Osaka, Nobuhiko Yokoshi, Masatoshi Nakatani, Hajime Ishihara
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5195
abstract: We theoretically investigate up-conversion process of entangled two photons on a dimer molecule, which is coupled by a cavity or nanoscale metallic structure. Within one-dimensional input-output theory, the propagators of the photons are derived analytically and the up-conversion probability is calculated numerically. It is shown that the coupling with the nanostructure clearly enhances the process. We also find that the enhancement becomes further pronounced for some balanced system parameters such as the quantum correlation between photons, radiation decay rates and coupling between the nanostructure and molecule. The non-monotonic dependencies are reasonably explained in view of quantum interference between the coupled modes of the whole system. This result can provide a guideline for nonlinear optical reactions by weak light of a few photons.

id: 1211.5202
title: Phases, transitions, and boundary conditions in a model of interacting bosons
authors: Jamshid Moradi Kurdestany, Ramesh V. Pai, Subroto Mukerjee, Rahul Pandit
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5202
abstract: We carry out an extensive study of the phase diagrams of the extended Bose Hubbard model, with a mean filling of one boson per site, in one dimension by using the density matrix renormalization group and show that it contains Superfluid (SF), Mott-insulator (MI), density-wave (DW) and Haldane-insulator (HI) phases. We show that the critical exponents and central charges for the HI-DW, MI-HI and SF-MI transitions are consistent with those for models in the two-dimensional Ising, Gaussian, and Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless (BKT) universality classes, respectively; and we suggest that the SF-HI transition may be more exotic than a simple BKT transition. We show explicitly that different boundary conditions lead to different phase diagrams.

id: 1211.5211
title: Quantum Mechanical Hamiltonians with Large Ground-State Degeneracy
authors: Choonkyu Lee, Kimyeong Lee
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5211
abstract: Nonrelativistic Hamiltonians with large, even infinite, ground-state degeneracy are studied by connecting the degeneracy to the property of a Dirac operator. We then identify a special class of Hamiltonians, for which the full space of degenerate ground states in any spatial dimension can be exhibited explicitly. The two-dimensional version of the latter coincides with the Pauli Hamiltonian, and recently-discussed models leading to higher-dimensional Landau levels are obtained as special cases of the higher-dimensional version of this Hamiltonian. But, in our framework, it is only the asymptotic behavior of the background `potential' that matters for the ground-state degeneracy. We work out in detail the ground states of the three-dimensional model in the presence of a uniform magnetic field and such potential. In the latter case one can see degenerate stacking of all 2d Landau levels along the magnetic field axis.

id: 1211.5212
title: Quantum particle escape from a time-dependent confining potential
authors: Tooru Taniguchi, Shin-ichi Sawada
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 86, 417 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5212
abstract: Quantum escape of a particle via a time-dependent confining potential in a semi-infinite one-dimensional space is discussed. We describe the time-evolution of escape states in terms of scattering states of the quantum open system, and calculate the probability $P(t)$ for a particle to remain in the confined region at time $t$ in the case of a delta-function potential with a time-oscillating magnitude. The probability $P(t)$ decays exponentially in time at early times, then decays as a power later, along with a time-oscillation in itself. We show that a larger time-oscillation amplitude of the confining potential leads to a faster exponential decay of the probability $P(t)$, while it can rather enhance the probability $P(t)$ decaying as a power. These contrastive behaviors of the probability $P(t)$ in different types of decay are discussed quantitatively by using the decay time and the power decay magnitude of the probability $P(t)$.

id: 1211.5308
title: Disconjugacy, regularity of multi-indexed rationally-extended potentials, and Laguerre exceptional polynomials
authors: Yves Grandati, Christiane Quesne
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5308
abstract: The power of the disconjugacy properties of second-order differential equations of Schr\"odinger type to check the regularity of rationally-extended quantum potentials connected with exceptional orthogonal polynomials is illustrated by re-examining the extensions of the isotonic oscillator (or radial oscillator) potential derived in kth-order supersymmetric quantum mechanics or multistep Darboux-B\"acklund transformation method. The function arising in the potential denominator is proved to be a polynomial with a nonvanishing constant term, whose value is calculated by induction over k. The sign of this term being the same as that of the already known highest-degree term, the potential denominator has the same sign at both extremities of the definition interval, a property that is shared by the seed eigenfunction used in the potential construction. By virtue of disconjugacy, such a property implies the nodeless character of both the eigenfunction and the resulting potential.

id: 1211.5313
title: Quantum mechanics for a vector particle in the magnetic field on 4-dimensional sphere
authors: V. V. Kisel, E. M. Ovsiyuk, O. V. Veko, V. M. Red'kov
comments: 27 pages; Nauchno-Technicheskie Vedomosti. Saint Petersburg State Polytechnical University
journal: Ser. fiz.-mat. 2012. no 1 (141) P. 128-137
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5313
abstract: Quantum-mechanical wave equation for a particle with spin 1 is investigated in presence of external magnetic field in spaces with non-Euclidean geometry with constant positive curvature. Separation of the variable is performed; differential equations in the variable r are solved in hypergeometric functions. T he study o f z-dependence of the wave function has been reduced to a system of three linked ordinary differential 2-nd order equations; till now the system in z variable is not solved.

id: 1211.5323
title: Multimode dynamics and emergence of a characteristic length-scale in a one-dimensional quantum system
authors: Maximilian Kuhnert, Remi Geiger, Tim Langen, Michael Gring, Bernhard Rauer, Takuya Kitagawa, Eugene Demler, David Adu Smith, J?rg Schmiedmayer
comments: 5 pages including references, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 090405 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5323
abstract: We study the non-equilibrium dynamics of a coherently split one-dimensional (1d) Bose gas by measuring the full probability distribution functions of matter-wave interference. Observing the system on different length scales allows us to probe the dynamics of excitations on different energy scales, revealing two distinct length-scale dependent regimes of relaxation. We measure the crossover length-scale separating these two regimes and identify it with the prethermalized phase-correlation length of the system. Our approach enables a direct observation of the multimode dynamics characterizing one-dimensional quantum systems.

id: 1211.5381
title: Topological R¨¦nyi entropy after a quantum quench
authors: G¨¢bor B. Hal¨¢sz, Alioscia Hamma
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, published version with structural changes, see supplemental material at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 170605 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5381
abstract: We present an analytical study on the resilience of topological order after a quantum quench. The system is initially prepared in the ground state of the toric-code model, and then quenched by switching on an external magnetic field. During the subsequent time evolution, the variation in topological order is detected via the topological Renyi entropy of order 2. We consider two different quenches: the first one has an exact solution, while the second one requires perturbation theory. In both cases, we find that the long-term time average of the topological Renyi entropy in the thermodynamic limit is the same as its initial value. Based on our results, we argue that topological order is resilient against a wide range of quenches.

id: 1211.5447
title: Orbit Tracking Control of Quantum Systems
authors: Shuang Cong, Jianxiu Liu, Fei Yang
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5447
abstract: The orbit tracking of free-evolutionary target system in closed quantum systems is studied in this paper. Based on the concept of system control theory, the unitary transformation is applied to change the time-dependent target function into a stationary target state so that the orbit tracking problem is changed into the state transfer one. A Lyapunov function with virtual mechanical quantity P is employed to design a control law for such a state transferring. The target states in density matrix are grouped into two classes: diagonal and non-diagonal. The specific convergent conditions for target state of diagonal mixed-states are derived. In the case that the target state is a non-diagonal superposition state, we propose a non-diagonal P construction method; if the target state is a non-diagonal mixed-state we use a unitary transformation to change it into a diagonal state and design a diagonal P. In such a way, the orbit tracking problem with arbitrary initial state is properly solved. The explicit expressions of P are derived to obtain a convergent control law. At last, the system simulation experiments are performed on a two-level quantum system and the tracking process is illustrated on the Bloch sphere.

id: 1211.5515
title: Mott Insulator to Superfluid Phase Transition in Bravais Lattices via the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard Model
authors: C. B. Gomes, A. M. C. Souza, F. A. G. Almeida
comments: Submitted to European Physical Journal B, Section:Solid State and Materials. 7 pages and 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5515
abstract: The Properties of the Mott insulator to superfluid phase transition are obtained through the fermionic approximation in the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model on linear, square, SC, FCC, and BCC Bravais lattices. For varying excitation number and atom-cavity frequency detuning. We find that the Mott lobes and the critical hopping are not scalable only for the FCC lattice. At the large excitation number regime, the critical hopping is scalable for all the lattices and it does not depend on the detuning.

id: 1211.5552
title: Magnetic field controlled vacuum charge in graphene quantum dots with a mass gap
authors: P. A. Maksym, H. Aoki
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5552
abstract: The effect of a magnetic field on the charged vacuum is investigated. The field dependence of the energy levels causes jumps in the total vacuum charge that occur whenever an energy level crosses the Fermi level and this leads to re-entrant cycles of vacuum charging and discharging. In atomic systems these effects require astrophysical magnetic fields of around 10^8 T but in graphene with a mass gap they occur in laboratory fields of about 1 T or lower. It is suggested that an electrostatic graphene quantum dot defined by a gate electrode provides a solid state model of the as yet unobserved charged vacuum as well as a model of an atomic system in an extreme astrophysical environment. Phase diagrams are computed to show how the total vacuum charge depends on the confining potential strength and applied magnetic field. In addition the field dependence of the vacuum charge density is investigated and experimental consequences are discussed.

id: 1211.5565
title: Direct Observation of Resonant Scattering Phase Shifts and their Energy Dependence
authors: Stephen D. Gensemer, Ross B. Martin-Wells, Aaron W. Bennett, Kurt Gibble
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 263201 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5565
abstract: We scan the collision energy of two clouds of cesium atoms between 12 and 50 $\mu$K in atomic fountain clock. By directly detecting the difference of s-wave scattering phase shifts, we observe a rapid variation of a scattering phase shift through a series of Feshbach resonances. At the energies we use, resonances that overlap at threshold become resolved. Our statistical phase uncertainty of 8 mrad can be improved in future precision measurements of Feshbach resonances to accurately determine the Cs-Cs interactions, which may provide stringent limits on the time variation of fundamental constants.

id: 1211.5617
title: Optimal rotation control for a qubit subject to continuous measurement
authors: Srinivas Sridharan, Masahiro Yanagisawa, Joshua Combes
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5617
abstract: In this article we analyze the optimal control strategy for rotating a monitored qubit from an initial pure state to an orthogonal state in minimum time. This strategy is described for two different cost functions of interest which do not have the usual regularity properties. Hence, as classically smooth cost functions may not exist, we interpret these functions as viscosity solutions to the optimal control problem. Specifically we prove their existence and uniqueness in this weak-solution setting. In addition, we also give bounds on the time optimal control to prepare any pure state from a mixed state.

id: 1211.5627
title: A short introduction to the quantum formalism[s]
authors: Francois David
comments: Lectures notes for a course given at IPhT-Saclay and Ecole Doctorale ED107 de Physique de la Region Parisienne
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5627
abstract: These notes are an elaboration on: (i) a short course that I gave at the IPhT-Saclay in May-June 2012; (ii) a previous letter on reversibility in quantum mechanics. They present an introductory, but hopefully coherent, view of the main formalizations of quantum mechanics, of their interrelations and of their common physical underpinnings: causality, reversibility and locality/separability. The approaches covered are mainly: (ii) the canonical formalism; (ii) the algebraic formalism; (iii) the quantum logic formulation. Other subjects: quantum information approaches, quantum correlations, contextuality and non-locality issues, quantum measurements, interpretations and alternate theories, quantum gravity, are only very briefly and superficially discussed. Most of the material is not new, but is presented in an original, homogeneous and hopefully not technical or abstract way. I try to define simply all the mathematical concepts used and to justify them physically. These notes should be accessible to young physicists (graduate level) with a good knowledge of the standard formalism of quantum mechanics, and some interest for theoretical physics (and mathematics). These notes do not cover the historical and philosophical aspects of quantum physics.

id: 1211.5671
title: A plasmon enhanced attosecond extreme ultraviolet source
authors: Mattia Lupetti, Matthias F. Kling, Armin Scrinzi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5671
abstract: A compact high repetition rate attosecond light source based on a standard laser oscillator combined with plasmonic enhancement is presented. At repetition rates of tens of MHz, we predict focusable pulses with durations of ~< 300 attoseconds, and collimation angles ~< 5 degrees. Attosecond pulse parameters are robust with respect variations of driver pulse focus and duration.

id: 1211.5685
title: The exactly solvable two-dimensional stationary Schr?dinger operators obtaining by the nonlocal Darboux transformation
authors: Andrey Kudryavtsev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5685
abstract: The Fokker-Planck equation associated with the two - dimensional stationary Schr\"odinger equation has the conservation low form that yields a pair of potential equations. The special form of Darboux transformation of the potential equations system is considered. As the potential variable is a nonlocal variable for the Schr\"odinger equation that provides the nonlocal Darboux transformation for the Schr\"odinger equation. This nonlocal transformation is applied for obtaining of the exactly solvable two - dimensional stationary Schr\"odinger equations. The examples of exactly solvable two - dimensional stationary Schr\"odinger operators with smooth potentials decaying at infinity are obtained.

id: 1211.5699
title: The effect of the geometric potential and an external magnetic field on a charged particle on a helicoid
authors: Miguel Antonio Sulangi, Quirino M. Sugon Jr
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; fixed Fig. 2
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5699
abstract: We perform an analysis of the combined effects of geometry and a magnetic field for the case of a charged particle on a helicoid. The effective quantum potentials for a charged spinless particle confined on a helicoid for two simple magnetic field configurations are derived. These potentials depend nontrivially on the surface curvature and the external magnetic field. We find that the qualitative behavior of the effective potential can be altered by changing the strength of the applied magnetic field. The application of a magnetic field results in effective potentials that are either repulsive or attractive, depending on the magnitude of the magnetic field and the angular momentum of the particle. Finally, for the case of effective potentials that have a minimum, we also obtain approximate expressions for the energy levels valid when the particle is near a minimum, and these are found to be similar in form to the energy levels of a particle in a harmonic oscillator potential.

id: 1211.5815
title: PT-symmetric lattices with spatially extended gain/loss are generically unstable
authors: D.E. Pelinovsky, P.G. Kevrekidis, D.J. Frantzeskakis
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5815
abstract: We illustrate, through a series of prototypical examples, that linear parity-time (PT) symmetric lattices with extended gain/loss profiles are generically unstable, for any non-zero value of the gain/loss coefficient. Our examples include a parabolic real potential with a linear imaginary part and the cases of no real and constant or linear imaginary potentials. On the other hand, this instability can be avoided and the spectrum can be real for localized or compact PT-symmetric potentials. The linear lattices are analyzed through discrete Fourier transform techniques complemented by numerical computations.

id: 1211.5839
title: The K-Theoretic Formulation of D-Brane Aharonov-Bohm Phases
authors: Aaron R. Warren
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5839
abstract: The topological calculation of Aharonov-Bohm phases associated with D-branes in the absence of a Neveu-Schwarz B-field is explored. The K-theoretic classification of Ramond-Ramond fields in Type II and Type I theories is used to produce formulae for the Aharonov-Bohm phase associated with a torsion flux. A topological construction shows that K-theoretic pairings to calculate such phases exist and are well-defined. An analytic perspective is then taken, obtaining a means for determining Aharonov-Bohm phases by way of the reduced eta-invariant. This perspective is used to calculate the phase for an experiment involving the $(-1)-8$ system in Type I theory, and compared with previous calculations performed using different methods.

id: 1211.5889
title: Electron spin motion in the delta-function pulse
authors: Miroslav Pardy
comments: 12 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1208.0488, arXiv:hep-ph/0207274, arXiv:1109.1716, arXiv:0809.3888
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5889
abstract: We formulate the Bargman-Michel-Telegdi (BMT) equation for electron spin motion in a plane wave and in the Dirac delta-function pulse. We compare the BMT solution with the Wolkow solution of the Dirac equation. The Wolkow solution for the spin is not identical with the solution following from the BMT .

id: 1211.5929
title: Charge dynamics in an ideal cuprate $Ca_{2-x} Na_x Cu O_2 Cl_2$: optical conductivity from Yang-Rice-Zhang ansatz
authors: Navinder Singh
comments: 8 pages and 21 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5929
abstract: We theoretically investigate charge dynamics in weakly coupled $CuO_2$ planes of the cuprate $Ca_{2-x} Na_x Cu O_2 Cl_2$ (CNCOC) using Kubo formula for optical conductivity in the underdoped regime. The spectral function needed in Kubo formula is obtained from an analytical form of electron Green's function proposed (ansatz) by Yang-Rice-Zhang (YRZ) for the underdoped cuprates based on their previous renormalized mean field theory and on the investigations of weakly coupled Hubbard ladders. Although to an unaided eye the results of the numerical calculation look very similar to that found experimentally in [K. Waku etal. 2004] but a careful examination with extended Drude formalism shows that YRZ ansatz for the calculation of optical conductivity is not sufficient to understand the charge dynamics in $CuO_2$ planes of the cuprate CNCOC. More physics is needed especially electromagnetic response from bound charges.

id: 1211.5956
title: Quantum corrections to phi^4 model solutions and applications to Heisenberg chain dynamics
authors: Grzegorz Kwiatkowski, Sergey Leble
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5956
abstract: The Heisenberg spin chain is considered in phi^4 model approximation. Quantum corrections to classical solutions of the one-dimensional phi^4 model within the correspondent physics are evaluated with account of rest $d-1$ dimensions of a d-dimensional theory. A quantization of the models is considered in terms of space-time functional integral. The generalized zeta-function formalism is used to renormalize and evaluate the functional integral and quantum corrections to energy in quasiclassical approximation. The results are applied to appropriate conditions of the spin chain models and its dynamics, which elementary solutions, energy and the quantum corrections are calculated.

id: 1211.6042
title: Revivals in Caldeira - Leggett Hamiltonian Dynamics
authors: V. A. Benderskii, E. I. Kats, A. S. Kotkin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6042
abstract: In this work we reconsider the problem discussed by Caldeira and Leggett (CL), and generalize their results for a quantum oscillator coupled bilinearly to a reservoir with dense discrete spectrum of harmonic oscillators. We show that for such systems dynamic evolution of any state of the CL Hamiltonian consists of recurrence cycles with partial revivals of the initial state amplitude. This revival or Loschmidt echo appears in each cycle due to reverse (from the reservoir) transitions (not existing in the limit of a macroscopic bath). Width and number of the Loschmidt echo components increase with the recurrence cycle number, eventually leading to irregular, stochastic-like time evolution. Standard for continuous spectrum thermal bath CL dynamics dissipative dynamics (exponential decay) takes place only within the initial cycle. In terms of the effective CL Hamiltonian, where the reservoir degrees of freedom are integrated out, our results mean oscillatory (time periodic) behavior of the effective mass. Only in the initial cycle, we found the known for CL Hamiltonian exponential in time increase of the effective mass. We do believe that the basic ideas inspiring our work can be applied to a large variety of interesting nano-systems and molecular complexes.

id: 1211.6084
title: Photon Counting as a Probe of Superfluidity in a Two-Band Bose Hubbard System Coupled to a Cavity Field
authors: Sara Rajaram, Nandini Trivedi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 243603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6084
abstract: We show that photon number measurement can be used to detect superfluidity for a two-band Bose-Hubbard model coupled to a cavity field. The atom-photon coupling induces transitions between the two internal atomic levels and results in entangled polaritonic states. In the presence of a cavity field, we find different photon numbers in the Mott-insulating versus superfluid phases, providing a method of distinguishing the atomic phases by photon counting. Furthermore, we examine the dynamics of the photon field after a rapid quench to zero atomic hopping by increasing the well depth. We find a robust correlation between the field's quench dynamics and the initial superfluid order parameter, thereby providing a novel and accurate method of determining the order parameter.

id: 1211.6221
title: Short range asymptotic behavior of the wave-functions of interacting spin-half fermionic atoms with spin-orbit coupling: a model study
authors: Yuxiao Wu, Zhenhua Yu
comments: Pulished version. More references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032703 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6221
abstract: We consider spin-half fermionic atoms with isotropic Rashba spin-orbit coupling in three directions. The interatomic potential is modeled by a square well potential. We derive the analytic form of the asymptotic wave-functions at short range of two fermions in the subspace of zero net momentum and zero total angular momentum. We show that the spin-orbit coupling has perturbative effects on the short range asymptotic behavior of the wave-functions away from resonances. We argue that our conclusion should hold generally.

id: 1211.6246
title: On the Probability of Generating a Lattice
authors: Felix Fontein, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6246
abstract: We study the problem of determining the probability that m vectors selected uniformly at random from the intersection of the full-rank lattice L in R^n and the window [0,B)^n generate $\Lambda$ when B is chosen to be appropriately large. This problem plays an important role in the analysis of the success probability of quantum algorithms for solving the Discrete Logarithm Problem in infrastructures obtained from number fields and also for computing fundamental units of number fields. We provide the first complete and rigorous proof that 2n+1 vectors suffice to generate L with constant probability (provided that B is chosen to be sufficiently large in terms of n and the covering radius of L and the last n+1 vectors are sampled from a slightly larger window). Based on extensive computer simulations, we conjecture that only n+1 vectors sampled from one window suffice to generate L with constant success probability. If this conjecture is true, then a significantly better success probability of the above quantum algorithms can be guaranteed.

id: 1211.6342
title: Mass-imbalanced Three-Body Systems in Two Dimensions
authors: F. F. Bellotti, T. Frederico, M. T. Yamashita, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures, revised version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 055301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6342
abstract: We consider three-body systems in two dimensions with zero-range interactions for general masses and interaction strengths. The momentum-space Schr\"odinger equation is solved numerically and in the Born-Oppenheimer (BO) approximation. The BO expression is derived using separable potentials and yields a concise adiabatic potential between the two heavy particles. The BO potential is Coulomb-like and exponentially decreasing at small and large distances, respectively. While we find similar qualitative features to previous studies, we find important quantitative differences. Our results demonstrate that mass-imbalanced systems that are accessible in the field of ultracold atomic gases can have a rich three-body bound state spectrum in two dimensional geometries. Small light-heavy mass ratios increase the number of bound states. For 87Rb-87Rb-6Li and 133Cs-133Cs-6Li we find respectively 3 and 4 bound states.

id: 1211.6356
title: Scale-free relaxation of a wave packet in a quantum well with power-law tails
authors: Salvatore Miccich¨¨, Andreas Buchleitner, Fabrizio Lillo, Rosario N. Mantegna, Tobias Paul, Sandro Wimberger
comments: improved and extended version
journal: New J. Phys. vol. 15, 033033 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6356
abstract: We propose a setup for which a power-law decay is predicted to be observable for generic and realistic conditions. The system we study is very simple: A quantum wave packet initially prepared in a potential well with (i) tails asymptotically decaying like ~ x^{-2} and (ii) an eigenvalues spectrum that shows a continuous part attached to the ground or equilibrium state. We analytically derive the asymptotic decay law from the spectral properties for generic, confined initial states. Our findings are supported by realistic numerical simulations for state-of-the-art expansion experiments with cold atoms.

id: 1211.6364
title: Spontaneous creation and persistence of ground-state coherence in a resonantly driven intra-cavity atomic ensemble
authors: D. G. Norris, A. D. Cimmarusti, L. A. Orozco, P. Barberis-Blostein, H. J. Carmichael
comments: 35 pages, 14 figures
journal: D. G. Norris, A. D. Cimmarusti, L. A. Orozco, P. Barberis-Blostein, and H. J. Carmichael, Phys. Rev. A 86, 053816 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6364
abstract: The spontaneous creation and persistence of ground-state coherence in an ensemble of intracavity Rb atoms has been observed as a quantum beat. Our system realizes a quantum eraser, where the detection of a first photon prepares a superposition of ground-state Zeeman sublevels, while detection of a second erases the stored information. Beats appear in the time-delayed photon-photon coincidence rate (intensity correlation function). We study the beats theoretically and experimentally as a function of system parameters, and find them remarkably robust against perturbations such as spontaneous emission. Although beats arise most simply through single-atom-mediated quantum interference, scattering pathways involving pairs of atoms interfere also in our intracavity experiment. We present a detailed model which identifies all sources of interference and accounts for experimental realities such as imperfect pre-pumping of the atomic beam, cavity birefringence, and the transit of atoms across the cavity mode.

id: 1211.6606
title: Analytical and numerical study of uncorrelated disorder on a honeycomb lattice
authors: Kean Loon Lee, Beno?t Gr¨¦maud, Christian Miniatura, Dominique Delande
comments: 19 pages, 25 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 144202 (2013)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6606
abstract: We consider a tight-binding model on the regular honeycomb lattice with uncorrelated on-site disorder. We use two independent methods (recursive Green's function and self-consistent Born approximation) to extract the scattering mean free path, the scattering mean free time, the density of states and the localization length as a function of the disorder strength. The two methods give excellent quantitative agreement for these single-particle properties. Furthermore, a finite-size scaling analysis reveals that all localization lengths for different lattice sizes and different energies (including the energy at the Dirac points) collapse onto a single curve, in agreement with the one-parameter scaling theory of localization. The predictions of the self-consistent theory of localization however fail to quantitatively reproduce these numerically-extracted localization lengths.

id: 1211.6647
title: Sympathetic EIT laser cooling of motional modes in an ion chain
authors: Y. Lin, J. P. Gaebler, T. R. Tan, R. Bowler, J. D. Jost, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 153002 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6647
abstract: We use electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) laser cooling to cool motional modes of a linear ion chain. As a demonstration, we apply EIT cooling on $^{24}Mg^+$ ions to cool the axial modes of a $^9Be^+$ - $^{24}Mg^+$ ion pair and a $^9Be^+$ - $^{24}Mg^+$ - $^{24}Mg^+$ - $^9Be^+$ ion chain, thereby sympathetically cooling the $^{9}$Be$^{+}$ ions. Compared to previous implementations of conventional Raman sideband cooling, we achieve approximately an order-of-magnitude reduction in the duration required to cool the modes to near the ground state and significant reduction in required laser intensity.

id: 1211.6679
title: Dimer-dimer scattering length for fermions with different masses: analytical study for large mass ratio
authors: F. Alzetto, R. Combescot, X. Leyronas
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6679
abstract: We study the dimer-dimer scattering length $a_4$ for a two-component Fermi mixture in which the different fermions have different masses $m\us$ and $m\ds$. This is made in the framework of the exact field theoretical method. In the large mass ratio domain the equations are simplified enough to lead to an analytical solution. In particular we link $a_4$ to the fermion-dimer scattering length $a_3$ for the same fermions, and obtain the very simple relation $a_4=a_3/2$. The result $a_4 \simeq a_3/2$ is actually valid whatever the mass ratio with quite good precision. As a result we find an analytical expression providing $a_4$ with a fairly good precision for any masses. To dominant orders for large mass ratio it agrees with the literature. We show that, in this large mass ratio domain, the dominant processes are the repeated dimer-dimer Born scatterings, considered earlier by Pieri and Strinati. We conclude that their approximation, of retaining only these processes, is a fairly good one whatever the mass ratio.

id: 1211.6683
title: Risk Mathematics and Quantum Games on Quantum Risk Structures - A Nuclear War Scenario Game
authors: Carlos Pedro Gon?alves
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6683
abstract: Quantum game theory is combined with risk mathematics' formalism to provide an approach to evolutionary scenario analysis. The formalism is addressed in its general form and is then applied to an extreme risks modelling case, to model a coevolving dynamical web of systemic situations representing the evolution of the regional tensions between two countries with nuclear weapons. The model's results are addressed regarding the potential for regional nuclear conflict to take place, and how evolutionary scenario analysis may contribute to nuclear war threat assessment and dynamical risk analysis. A final discussion is provided in what regards risk mathematics based on the evolutionary approach to risk assessement resulting from the combination of quantum game theory, morphic web representations and scenario analysis.

id: 1211.6731
title: Finite-size corrections vs. relaxation after a sudden quench
authors: Maurizio Fagotti
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures; V2: minor changes and reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 165106 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6731
abstract: We consider the time evolution after sudden quenches of global parameters in translational invariant Hamiltonians and study the time average expectation values and entanglement entropies in finite chains. We show that in noninteracting models the time average of spin correlation functions is asymptotically equal to the infinite time limit in the infinite chain, which is known to be described by a generalized Gibbs ensemble. The equivalence breaks down considering nonlocal operators, and we establish that this can be traced back to the existence of conservation laws common to the Hamiltonian before and after the quench. We develop a method to compute the leading finite-size correction for time average correlation functions and entanglement entropies. We find that large corrections are generally associated to observables with slow relaxation dynamics.

id: 1211.6783
title: A radiating spin chain as a model of irreversible dynamics
authors: Pavel B¨®na, Michal ?ira¨¾
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6783
abstract: We construct a finite spin-1/2 chain model (quantum domino) interacting with a Fermi field, capable of emitting a scalar fermion from the last spin in the chain. The chain with dynamics gradually reversing the neighbouring spins emits eventually a fermion which escapes then to infinity, and the chain converges to a stationary state. We determine the rate of convergence of the system for large time to a different "macroscopic" state connected with the emission of a fermion. We prove that the probability of fermion emission as a function of time t approaches to unity "almost exponentially". We propose that this fast rate of convergence could serve as an approximate theoretical possibility for the "effective" description of the quantum measurement process in the sense proposed by K. Hepp. This all will be preceded by an outline of explicitly solvable dynamics of infinite version of the spin chain which exhibits transition from a locally perturbed unstable stationary state to a truly macroscopically different (i.e. disjoint) state, but with slow convergence for t approaching to infinity.

id: 1211.6882
title: Quantum Physics and Fluctuating Topologies: Survey
authors: M. Asorey, A. P. Balachandran, G. Marmo, I. P. Costa e Silva, A. R. de Queiroz, P. Teotonio-Sobrinho, S. Vaidya
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6882
abstract: The spin-statistics connection, quantum gravity and other physical considerations suggest that classical space-time topology is not an immutable attribute and can change in quantum physics. The implementation of topology change using quantum principles has been studied for over two decades by a few of us. There has been a recent revival of interest in some of our work, dating back to as early as 1995. The present paper is meant as a resource article to our major relevant papers. It contains summaries of the contents of the cited papers and the corresponding links wherever available.

id: 1211.6913
title: Black Hole Entanglement and Quantum Error Correction
authors: Erik Verlinde, Herman Verlinde
comments: 41 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6913
abstract: It was recently argued by Almheiri et al that black hole complementarity strains the basic rules of quantum information theory, such as monogamy of entanglement. Motivated by this argument, we develop a practical framework for describing black hole evaporation via unitary time evolution, based on a holographic perspective in which all black hole degrees of freedom live on the stretched horizon. We model the horizon as a unitary quantum system with finite entropy, and do not postulate that the horizon geometry is smooth. We then show that, with mild assumptions, one can reconstruct local effective field theory observables that probe the black hole interior, and relative to which the state near the horizon looks like a local Minkowski vacuum. The reconstruction makes use of the formalism of quantum error correcting codes, and works for black hole states whose entanglement entropy does not yet saturate the Bekenstein-Hawking bound. Our general framework clarifies the black hole final state proposal, and allows a quantitative study of the transition into the "firewall" regime of maximally mixed black hole states.

id: 1211.6919
title: Scattering and effective interactions of ultracold atoms with spin-orbit coupling
authors: Long Zhang, Youjin Deng, Peng Zhang
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053626 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6919
abstract: We derive an analytical expression for the scattering amplitude of two ultracold atoms of arbitrary spin and with general spin-orbit (SO) coupling, on the basis of our recent work (Phys. Rev. A \textbf{86}, 053608 (2012)). As an application, we demonstrate that SO coupling can induce scattering resonance in the case with finite scattering length. The same approach can be applied to calculate the two-body bound state of SO-coupled ultracold atoms. For the ultracold spin-1/2 fermi gases in three- or two- dimensional systems with SO coupling, we also obtain the renormalization relation of effective contact interaction with momentum cutoff, as well as the applicability of Huang-Yang pseudo-potential.

id: 1211.6920
title: Resonant states of deformed nuclei in complex scaling method
authors: Quan Liu, Jian-You Guo, Zhong-Ming Niu, Shou-Wan Chen
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0712.3087, arXiv:nucl-th/0403013 by other authors
journal: Physical Review C 86, 054312 (2012)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6920
abstract: We develop a complex scaling method for describing the resonances of deformed nuclei and present a theoretical formalism for the bound and resonant states on the same footing. With $^{31}$Ne as an illustrated example, we have demonstrated the utility and applicability of the extended method and have calculated the energies and widths of low-lying neutron resonances in $^{31}$Ne. The bound and resonant levels in the deformed potential are in full agreement with those from the multichannel scattering approach. The width of the two lowest-lying resonant states shows a novel evolution with deformation and supports an explanation of the deformed halo for $^{31}$Ne.

id: 1211.6924
title: Topological transport in a spin-orbit coupled bosonic Mott insulator
authors: C. H. Wong, R.A. Duine
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 115301 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6924
abstract: We investigate topological transport in a spin-orbit coupled bosonic Mott insulator. We show that interactions can lead to anomalous quasi-particle dynamics even when the spin-orbit coupling is abelian. To illustrate the latter, we consider the spin-orbit coupling realized in the experiment of Lin \textit{et al}. [Nature (London) \textbf{471}, 83 (2011)]. For this spin-orbit coupling, we compute the quasiparticle dispersions and spectral weights, the interaction-induced momentum space Berry curvature, and the momentum space distribution of spin density, and propose experimental signatures. Furthermore, we find that in our approximation for the single-particle propagator, the ground state can in principle support an integer Hall conductivity if the sum of the Chern numbers of the hole bands is nonzero.

id: 1211.6936
title: Nonequilibrium Dynamics of Ultracold Fermi Superfluids
authors: Analabha Roy
comments: Invited mini-review article containing proceedings of talk delivered at the Quantum Chaos mini-symposium of the National Conference on Nonlinear Systems and Dynamics, 2012 (IISER Pune, India). Added another ref in v2, Added an experimental section and made some minor spelling/punctuation corrections in v3
journal: Eur. Phys. J. ST, 222 (3-4), 975-993 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.6936
abstract: The aim of this mini review is to survey the literature on the study of nonequilibrium dynamics of Fermi superfluids in the BCS and BEC limits, both in the single channel and dual channel cases. The focus is on mean field approaches to the dynamics, with specific attention drawn to the dynamics of the Ginzburg-Landau order parameters of the Fermi and composite Bose fields, as well as on the microscopic dynamics of the quantum degrees of freedom. The two approaches are valid approximations in two different time scales of the ensuing dynamics. The system is presumed to evolve during and/or after a quantum quench in the parameter space. The quench can either be an impulse quench with virtually instantaneous variation, or a periodic variation between two values. The literature for the order parameter dynamics, described by the time-dependent Ginzburg- Landau equations, is reviewed, and the works of the author in this area highlighted. The mixed phase regime in the dual channel case is also considered, and the dual order parameter dynamics of Fermi-Bose mixtures reviewed. Finally, the nonequilibrium dynamics of the microscopic degrees of freedom for the superfluid is reviewed for the self-consistent and non self-consistent cases. The dynamics of the former can be described by the Bogoliubov de-Gennes equations with the equilibrium BCS gap equation continued in time and self -consistently coupled to the BdG dynamics. The latter is a reduced BCS problem and can be mapped onto the dynamics of Ising and Kitaev models. This article reviews the dynamics of both impulse quenches in the Feshbach detuning, as well as periodic quenches in the chemical potential, and highlights the author's contributions in this area of research.

id: 1211.7010
title: Exact matrix product solution for the boundary-driven Lindblad $XXZ$-chain
authors: D. Karevski, V. Popkov, G.M. Sch¨¹tz
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 047201 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7010
abstract: We demonstrate that the exact non-equilibrium steady state of the one-dimensional Heisenberg XXZ spin chain driven by boundary Lindblad operators can be constructed explicitly with a matrix product ansatz for the non-equilibrium density matrix where the matrices satisfy a {\it quadratic algebra}. This algebra turns out to be related to the quantum algebra $U_q[SU(2)]$. Coherent state techniques are introduced for the exact solution of the isotropic Heisenberg chain with and without quantum boundary fields and Lindblad terms that correspond to two different completely polarized boundary states. We show that this boundary twist leads to non-vanishing stationary currents of all spin components. Our results suggest that the matrix product ansatz can be extended to more general quantum systems kept far from equilibrium by Lindblad boundary terms.

id: 1211.7037
title: Length sensing and control of a Michelson interferometer with Power Recycling and Twin Signal Recycling cavities
authors: Christian Gr?f, Andr¨¦ Th¨¹ring, Henning Vahlbruch, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 5, pp. 5287-5299 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7037
abstract: The techniques of power recycling and signal recycling have proven as key concepts to increase the sensitivity of large-scale gravitational wave detectors by independent resonant enhancement of light power and signal sidebands within the interferometer. Developing the latter concept further, twin signal recycling was proposed as an alternative to conventional detuned signal recycling. Twin signal recycling features the narrow-band sensitivity gain of conventional detuned signal recycling but furthermore facilitates the injection of squeezed states of light, increases the detector sensitivity over a wide frequency band and requires a less complex detection scheme for optimal signal readout. These benefits come at the expense of an additional recycling mirror, thus increasing the number of degrees of freedom in the interferometer which need to be controlled. In this article we describe the development of a length sensing and control scheme and its successful application to a tabletop-scale power recycled Michelson interferometer with twin signal recycling. We were able to lock the interferometer in all relevant longitudinal degrees of freedom, enabling the long-term stable operation of the experiment. We thus laid the foundation for further investigations of this interferometer topology to evaluate its viability for the application in gravitational wave detectors.

id: 1211.7085
title: Controlling Transport of Ultra-Cold Atoms in 1D Optical Lattices with Artificial Gauge Fields
authors: Chih-Chun Chien, Massimiliano Di Ventra
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023609 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7085
abstract: We show that the recently developed optical lattices with Peierls substitution -- which can be modeled as a lattice with a complex tunneling coefficient -- may be used to induce controllable quantum transport of ultra-cold atoms. In particular, we show that by ramping up the phase of the complex tunneling coefficient in a spatially uniform fashion, a finite quasi steady-state current (QSSC) ensues from the exact dynamics of non-interacting fermions. The direction and magnitude of the current can be controlled by the overall phase difference but not the details of the ramp. The entanglement entropy does not increase when the QSSC lasts. Due to different spin statistics, condensed non-interacting bosons do not support a finite QSSC under the same setup. We also find that an approximate form of the QSSC survives when perturbative effects from interactions, weak harmonic background traps, and finite-temperature are present, which suggests that our findings should be observable with available experimental capabilities.

id: 1211.7107
title: Balance between noise fluxes in free-running single-mode class-A lasers
authors: J. Jahanpanah, A. Soleimani, F. Shavandi
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures; Quantum Electronics, IEEE Journal of, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7107
abstract: The fluctuation effect of laser pumping rate on the output noise fluxes of class-A lasers is investigated. The method is based on the role of cavity Langevin force as a fluctuating force in the absence of the atomic population inversion and dipole moment Langevin forces. The temporal fluctuations induced to the phase and amplitude of the cavity electric field and the atomic population inversion are calculated in both below and above threshold states. Our aim is to derive correlation functions for the fluctuating variables of the cavity electric field and the atomic population inversion to determine the noise fluxes emerging from the cavity mirrors and measured by an optical detector and those radiated in the form of spontaneous emission in all spatial directions. We introduce a heuristic conservation relation that connects the noise flux generated by the laser pumping system with those distributed among the laser variables. Finally, the results are confirmed by demonstrating the energy conservation law.

id: 1211.7220
title: Atom lens without chromatic aberrations
authors: Maxim A. Efremov, Polina V. Mironova, Wolfgang P. Schleich
comments: 5 pages, one figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023604 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7220
abstract: We propose a lens for atoms with reduced chromatic aberrations and calculate its focal length and spot size. In our scheme a two-level atom interacts with a near-resonant standing light wave formed by two running waves of slightly different wave vectors, and a far-detuned running wave propagating perpendicular to the standing wave. We show that within the Raman-Nath approximation and for an adiabatically slow atom-light interaction, the phase acquired by the atom is independent of the incident atomic velocity.

id: 1211.7248
title: Resonances in open quantum maps
authors: Marcel Novaes
comments: 30 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Phys A 46, 143001 (2013)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7248
abstract: We review recent studies about the resonance spectrum of quantum scattering systems, in the semiclassical limit and assuming chaotic classical dynamics. Stationary quantum properties are related to fractal structures in the classical phase space. We focus attention on a particular class of problems that are chaotic maps in the torus with holes. Among the topics considered are the fractal Weyl law, the formation of a spectral gap and the morphology of eigenstates. We also discuss the situation when the holes are only partially transparent and the use of random matrices for a statistical description.

id: 1211.7265
title: Sub-Poissonian statistics of Rydberg-interacting dark-state polaritons
authors: Christoph S. Hofmann, Georg G¨¹nter, Hanna Schempp, Martin Robert-de-Saint-Vincent, Martin G?rttner, J?rg Evers, Shannon Whitlock, Matthias Weidem¨¹ller
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 203601 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7265
abstract: Interfacing light and matter at the quantum level is at the heart of modern atomic and optical physics and enables new quantum technologies involving the manipulation of single photons and atoms. A prototypical atom-light interface is electromagnetically induced transparency, in which quantum interference gives rise to hybrid states of photons and atoms called dark-state polaritons. We have observed individual dark-state polaritons as they propagate through an ultracold atomic gas involving Rydberg states. Strong long-range interactions between Rydberg atoms give rise to an effective interaction blockade for dark-state polaritons, which results in large optical nonlinearities and modified polariton number statistics. The observed statistical fluctuations drop well below the quantum noise limit indicating that photon correlations modified by the strong interactions have a significant back-action on the Rydberg atom statistics.

id: 1211.7334
title: Difference between level statistics, ergodicity and localization transitions on the Bethe lattice
authors: G. Biroli, A. C. Ribeiro-Teixeira, M. Tarzia
comments: 4.5 pages of main text + 4.5 pages of supplementary information (1 misprint corrected)
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7334
abstract: We show that non-interacting disordered electrons on a Bethe lattice display a new intermediate phase which is delocalized but non-ergodic, i.e. it is characterized by Poisson instead of GOE statistics. The physical signature of this phase is a very heterogenous transport that proceeds over a few disorder dependent paths only. We show that the transition to the usual ergodic delocalized phase, which takes place for a disorder strength smaller than the one leading to the localization transition, is related to the freezing-glass transition of directed polymers in random media. The numerical study of level and eigenstate statistics, and of the singular properties of the probability distribution of the local density of states all support the existence of this new intermediate phase. Our results suggest that the localization transition may change nature in high dimensional systems.

id: 1211.7357
title: The universality of the Efimov three-body parameter
authors: J. P. D'Incao, J. Wang, B. D. Esry, C. H. Greene
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; Presented at the 20th International IUPAP Conference on Few-Body Problems in Physics, 20 - 25 August, 2012, Fukuoka, Japan
journal: Few-Body Systems 54, 1523 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7357
abstract: In this paper we discuss the recent discovery of the universality of the three-body parameter (3BP) from Efimov physics. This new result was identified by recent experimental observations in ultracold quantum gases where the value of the s-wave scattering length, $a=a_-$, at which the first Efimov resonance is created was found to be nearly the same for a range of atomic species --- if scaled as $a_-/r_{\rm vdW}$, where $r_{\rm vdW}$ is the van der Waals length. Here, we discuss some of the physical principles related to these observations that emerge from solving the three-body problem with van der Waals interactions in the hyperspherical formalism. We also demonstrate the strong three-body multichannel nature of the problem and the importance of properly accounting for nonadiabatic effects.

id: 1211.7005
title: Symmetry Breaking and Topological Defect Formation in Ion Coulomb Crystals
authors: Karsten Pyka, Jonas Keller, Heather L. Partner, Ramil Nigmatullin, Tobias Burgermeister, David-M. Meier, Kristijan Kuhlmann, Alex Retzker, Martin B. Plenio, Wojciech H. Zurek, Adolfo del Campo, Tanja E. Mehlst?ubler
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2291 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.7005
abstract: Symmetry breaking phase transitions play an important role in nature. When a system traverses such a transition at a finite rate, its causally disconnected regions choose the new broken symmetry state independently. Where such local choices are incompatible, defects will form with densities predicted to follow a power law scaling in the rate of the transition. The importance of this Kibble-Zurek mechanism (KZM) ranges from cosmology to condensed matter [1-4]. In previous tests in homogeneous systems, defect formation was seen, but weak dependence on the transition rate and limited control of external parameters so far prevented tests of KZM scaling. As recently predicted [5-9], in inhomogeneous systems propagation of the critical front enhances the role of causality and steepens scaling of defect density with the transition rate. We use ion Coulomb crystals in a harmonic trap to demonstrate, for the first time, scaling of the number of topological defects with the transition rate - the central prediction of KZM - in a well-controlled environment.

id: 1211.0798
title: Energy Quantisation and Time Parameterisation
authors: Alon E. Faraggi, Marco Matone
comments: 11 pages. The main addition concerns a discussion on the variational principle in the case of discrete energy spectra (Jacobi's Theorem). References added
journal: Eur. Phys. J. C 74 (2014) 2694
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0798
abstract: We show that if space is compact, then trajectories cannot be defined in the framework of quantum Hamilton--Jacobi equation. The starting point is the simple observation that when the energy is quantized it is not possible to make variations with respect to the energy, and the time parameterisation t-t_0=\partial_E S_0, implied by Jacobi's theorem and that leads to group velocity, is ill defined. It should be stressed that this follows directly form the quantum HJ equation without any axiomatic assumption concerning the standard formulation of quantum mechanics. This provides a stringent connection between the quantum HJ equation and the Copenhagen interpretation. Together with tunneling and the energy quantization theorem for confining potentials, formulated in the framework of quantum HJ equation, it leads to the main features of the axioms of quantum mechanics from a unique geometrical principle. Similarly to the case of the classical HJ equation, this fixes its quantum analog by requiring that there exist point transformations, rather than canonical ones, leading to the trivial hamiltonian. This is equivalent to a basic cocycle condition on the states. Such a cocycle condition can be implemented on compact spaces, so that continuous energy spectra are allowed only as a limiting case. Remarkably, a compact space would also imply that the Dirac and von Neumann formulations of quantum mechanics essentially coincide. We suggest that there is a definition of time parameterisation leading to trajectories in the context of the quantum HJ equation having the probabilistic interpretation of the Copenhagen School.

id: 1211.5586
title: On Symmetric SL-Invariant Polynomials in Four Qubits
authors: Gilad Gour, Nolan R. Wallach
comments: 5 pages, submitted to "Symmetry: In Representation Theory and Its Applications." In Honor of Nolan R. Wallach," a volume in Progress in Mathematics (Birkhauser)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.5586
abstract: We find the generating set of SL-invariant polynomials in four qubits that are also invariant under permutations of the qubits. The set consists of four polynomials of degrees 2,6,8, and 12, for which we find an elegant expression in the space of critical states. In addition, we show that the Hyperdeterminant in four qubits is the only SL-invariant polynomial (up to powers of itself) that is non-vanishing precisely on the set of generic states.

