id: 1212.0008
title: Down-conversion source of positively spectrally correlated and decorrelated photon pairs at telecom wavelength
authors: Thomas Lutz, Piotr Kolenderski, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt Lett, 38, 697 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0008
abstract: The frequency correlation (or decorrelation) of photon pairs is of great importance in long-range quantum communications and photonic quantum computing. We experimentally characterize a spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC) source, based on a Beta-Barium Borate (BBO) crystal cut for type-II phase matching at 1550 nm which emits photons with the positive or no spectral correlations. Our system employs a carefully designed detection method exploiting two InGaAs detectors.

id: 1212.0025
title: Generalizing and Derandomizing Gurvits's Approximation Algorithm for the Permanent
authors: Scott Aaronson, Travis Hance
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure, minor additions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0025
abstract: Around 2002, Leonid Gurvits gave a striking randomized algorithm to approximate the permanent of an n*n matrix A. The algorithm runs in O(n^2/eps^2) time, and approximates Per(A) to within eps*||A||^n additive error. A major advantage of Gurvits's algorithm is that it works for arbitrary matrices, not just for nonnegative matrices. This makes it highly relevant to quantum optics, where the permanents of bounded-norm complex matrices play a central role. Indeed, the existence of Gurvits's algorithm is why, in their recent work on the hardness of quantum optics, Aaronson and Arkhipov (AA) had to talk about sampling problems rather than estimation problems. In this paper, we improve Gurvits's algorithm in two ways. First, using an idea from quantum optics, we generalize the algorithm so that it yields a better approximation when the matrix A has either repeated rows or repeated columns. Translating back to quantum optics, this lets us classically estimate the probability of any outcome of an AA-type experiment---even an outcome involving multiple photons "bunched" in the same mode---at least as well as that probability can be estimated by the experiment itself. (This does not, of course, let us solve the AA sampling problem.) It also yields a general upper bound on the probabilities of "bunched" outcomes, which resolves a conjecture of Gurvits and might be of independent physical interest. Second, we use eps-biased sets to derandomize Gurvits's algorithm, in the special case where the matrix A is nonnegative. More interestingly, we generalize the notion of eps-biased sets to the complex numbers, construct "complex eps-biased sets," then use those sets to derandomize even our generalization of Gurvits's algorithm to the multirow/multicolumn case (again for nonnegative A). Whether Gurvits's algorithm can be derandomized for general A remains an outstanding problem.

id: 1212.0033
title: Coexistence of high-bit-rate quantum key distribution and data on optical fiber
authors: K. A. Patel, J. F. Dynes, I. Choi, A. W. Sharpe, A. R. Dixon, Z. L. Yuan, R. V. Penty, A. J. Shields
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review X 2, 041010 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0033
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) uniquely allows distribution of cryptographic keys with security verified by quantum mechanical limits. Both protocol execution and subsequent applications require the assistance of classical data communication channels. While using separate fibers is one option, it is economically more viable if data and quantum signals are simultaneously transmitted through a single fiber. However, noise-photon contamination arising from the intense data signal has severely restricted both the QKD distances and secure key rates. Here, we exploit a novel temporal-filtering effect for noise-photon rejection. This allows high-bit-rate QKD over fibers up to 90 km in length and populated with error-free bidirectional Gb/s data communications. With high-bit rate and range sufficient for important information infrastructures, such as smart cities and 10 Gbit Ethernet, QKD is a significant step closer towards wide-scale deployment in fiber networks.

id: 1212.0082
title: Separability criterion for bipartite states and its generalization to multipartite systems
authors: Jie-Hui Huang, Li-Yun Hu, Lei Wang, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0082
abstract: A group of symmetric operators are introduced to carry out the separability criterion for bipartite and multipartite quantum states. Every symmetric operator, represented by a symmetric matrix with only two nonzero elements, and their arbitrary linear combinations are found to be entanglement witnesses. By using these symmetric operators, Wootters' separability criterion for two-qubit states can be generalized to bipartite and multipartite systems in arbitrary dimensions.

id: 1212.0086
title: Self-sustained emission in semi-infinite non-Hermitian systems at the exceptional point
authors: X. Z. Zhang, L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042118 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0086
abstract: Complex potential and non-Hermitian hopping amplitude are building blocks of a non-Hermitian quantum network. Appropriate configuration, such as PT-symmetric distribution, can lead to the full real spectrum. To investigate the underlying mechanism of this phenomenon, we study the phase diagram of a semi-infinite non-Hermitian system. It consists of a finite non-Hermitian cluster and a semi-infinite lead. Based on the analysis of the solution of the concrete systems, it is shown that it can have the full real spectrum without any requirements on the symmetry and the wave function within the lead becomes a unidirectional plane wave at the exceptional point. This universal dynamical behavior is demonstrated as the persistent emission and reflectionless absorption of wave packets in the typical non-Hermitian systems containing the complex on-site potential and non-Hermitian hopping amplitude.

id: 1212.0104
title: Potentiality States: Quantum versus Classical Emergence
authors: Diederik Aerts, Bart D'Hooghe
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: In D. Aerts, J. Broekaert, B. D'Hooghe and N. Note (Eds.), Worldviews, Science and Us: Bridging Knowledge and Its Implications for our Perspectives of the World; Singapore, World Scientific (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0104
abstract: We identify emergence with the existence of states of potentiality related to relevant physical quantities. We introduce the concept of 'potentiality state' operationally and show how it reduces to 'superposition state' when standard quantum mechanics can be applied. We consider several examples to illustrate our approach, and define the potentiality states giving rise to emergence in each example. We prove that Bell inequalities are violated by the potentiality states in the examples, which, taking into account Pitowsky's theorem, experimentally indicates the presence of quantum structure in emergence. In the first example emergence arises because of the many ways water can be subdivided into different vessels. In the second example, we put forward a full quantum description of the Liar paradox situation, and identify the potentiality states, which in this case turn out to be superposition states. In the example of the soccer team, we show the difference between classical emergence as stable dynamical pattern and emergence defined by a potentiality state, and show how Bell inequalities can be violated in the case of highly contextual experiments.

id: 1212.0105
title: The Vector representation of the Standard Quantum Process Tomography
authors: Wu Xiaohua
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0105
abstract: The characterization of the evolution of a quantum system is one of the main tasks to accomplish to achieve quantum information processing. The standard quantum process tomography (SQPT) has the unique property that it can be applied without introducing any additional quantum resources. In present work, we shall focus on the following two topics about the SQPT. At first, in the SQPT protocol for a $d$-dimensional system, one should encounter a problem in solving of a set of $d^4$ linear equations in order to get the matrix containing the complete information about the unknown quantum channel. Until now, the general form of the solution is unknown. And a long existed conviction is that the solutions are not unique. Here, we shall develop a self-consistent scheme, in which bounded linear operators are presented by vectors, to construct the set of linear equations. With the famous Cramer's rule for the set of linear equations, we are able to give the general form of the solution and prove that it is unique. In second, the central idea of the SQPT is to prepare a set of linearly independent inputs and measuring the outputs via the quantum state tomography (QST). Letting the inputs and the measurements be prepared by two sets of the rank-one positive-operator-valued measures [POVMs], where each POVM is supposed to be linearly independent and informationally complete (IC), we observe that SQPT now is equivalent to deciding a unknown state with a set of product IC-POVM in the $d^2$-dimensional Hilbert space. Following the general linear state tomography theory, we show that the product symmetric IC-POVM should minimize the mean-square Hilbert-Schmidt distance between the estimator and the true states. So, an optimal SQPT can be realized by preparing both the inputs and the measurements as the symmetric IC-POVM.

id: 1212.0110
title: Independence of the existence of Pitowsky spin models
authors: Ilijas Farah, Menachem Magidor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0110
abstract: In 1982 I. Pitowsky used Continuum Hypothesis to construct hidden variable models for spin-1/2 and spin-1 particles in quantum mechanics. We show that the existence of Pitowsky models is independent from ZFC.

id: 1212.0135
title: Is quantum linear superposition an exact principle of nature?
authors: Angelo Bassi, Tejinder P. Singh, Hendrik Ulbricht
comments: 12 pages, three figures, this essay received the Fourth Prize in the FQXi essay contest 2012 [this http URL]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0135
abstract: The principle of linear superposition is a hallmark of quantum theory. It has been confirmed experimentally for photons, electrons, neutrons, atoms, for molecules having masses up to ten thousand amu, and also in collective states such as SQUIDs and Bose-Einstein condensates. However, the principle does not seem to hold for positions of large objects! Why for instance, a table is never found to be in two places at the same time? One possible explanation for the absence of macroscopic superpositions is that quantum theory is an approximation to a stochastic nonlinear theory. This hypothesis may have its fundamental origins in gravitational physics, and is being put to test by modern ongoing experiments on matter wave interferometry.

id: 1212.0151
title: Maximally correlated multipartite quantum states
authors: J. Batle, M. Casas, A. Plastino
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0151
abstract: We investigate quantum states that posses both maximum entanglement and maximum discord between the pertinent parties. Since entanglement (discord) is defined only for bipartite (two qubit) systems, we shall introduce an appropriate sum over of all bi-partitions as the associated measure. The ensuing definition --not new for entanglement-- is thus extended here to quantum discord. Also, additional dimensions within the parties are considered ({\it qudits}). We also discuss nonlocality (in the form of maximum violation of a Bell inequality) for all multiqubit systems. The emergence of more nonlocal states than local ones, all of them possessing maximum entanglement, will be linked, surprisingly enough, to whether quantum mechanics is defined over the fields of real or complex numbers.

id: 1212.0194
title: Witnessing Quantum Coherence: from solid-state to biological systems
authors: Che-Ming Li, Neill Lambert, Yueh-Nan Chen, Guang-Yin Chen, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, journal paper
journal: Scientific Reports 2, 885 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0194
abstract: Quantum coherence is one of the primary non-classical features of quantum systems. While protocols such as the Leggett-Garg inequality (LGI) and quantum tomography can be used to test for the existence of quantum coherence and dynamics in a given system, unambiguously detecting inherent "quantumness" still faces serious obstacles in terms of experimental feasibility and efficiency, particularly in complex systems. Here we introduce two "quantum witnesses" to efficiently verify quantum coherence and dynamics in the time domain, without the expense and burden of non-invasive measurements or full tomographic processes. Using several physical examples, including quantum transport in solid-state nanostructures and in biological organisms, we show that these quantum witnesses are robust and have a much finer resolution in their detection window than the LGI has. These robust quantum indicators may assist in reducing the experimental overhead in unambiguously verifying quantum coherence in complex systems.

id: 1212.0213
title: Low temperature expansion in the Lifshitz formula
authors: M. Bordag
comments: Final version, to appear in 'Advances in Mathematical Physics'
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0213
abstract: The low temperature expansion of the free energy in a Casimir effect setup is considered in detail. The starting point is the Lifshitz formula in Matsubara representation and the basic method is its reformulation using the Abel-Plana formula making full use of the analytic properties. This provides a unified description of specific models. We re-derive the known results and, in a number of cases, we are able to go beyond. We also discuss the cases with dissipation. It is an aim of the paper to give a coherent exposition of the topic. The paper includes the derivations and should provide a self contained representation.

id: 1212.0248
title: The structure of Renyi entropic inequalities
authors: Noah Linden, Mil¨¢n Mosonyi, Andreas Winter
comments: 15 pages. v2: minor technical changes in Theorems 10 and 11
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 469(2158):20120737, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0248
abstract: We investigate the universal inequalities relating the alpha-Renyi entropies of the marginals of a multi-partite quantum state. This is in analogy to the same question for the Shannon and von Neumann entropy (alpha=1) which are known to satisfy several non-trivial inequalities such as strong subadditivity. Somewhat surprisingly, we find for 0<alpha<1, that the only inequality is non-negativity: In other words, any collection of non-negative numbers assigned to the nonempty subsets of n parties can be arbitrarily well approximated by the alpha-entropies of the 2^n-1 marginals of a quantum state. For alpha>1 we show analogously that there are no non-trivial homogeneous (in particular no linear) inequalities. On the other hand, it is known that there are further, non-linear and indeed non-homogeneous, inequalities delimiting the alpha-entropies of a general quantum state. Finally, we also treat the case of Renyi entropies restricted to classical states (i.e. probability distributions), which in addition to non-negativity are also subject to monotonicity. For alpha different from 0 and 1 we show that this is the only other homogeneous relation.

id: 1212.0319
title: Competitions between quantum correlations in the quantum-memory-assisted entropic uncertainty relation
authors: Ming-Liang Hu, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, the final version as that published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022314 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0319
abstract: With the aid of a quantum memory, the uncertainty about the measurement outcomes of two incompatible observables of a quantum system can be reduced. We investigate this measurement uncertainty bound by considering an additional quantum system connected with both the quantum memory and the measured quantum system. We find that the reduction of the uncertainty bound induced by a quantum memory, on the other hand, implies its increasing for a third participant. We also show that the properties of the uncertainty bound can be viewed from perspectives of both quantum and classical correlations, in particular, the behavior of the uncertainty bound is a result of competitions of various correlations between different parties.

id: 1212.0331
title: On Locality, Growth and Transport of Entanglement
authors: Roland Omn¨¨s
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0331
abstract: Entanglement of a macroscopic system with a microscopic one is shown to begin by a topological property of histories in the Feynman formulation of quantum mechanics. This property can also be expressed algebraically on the Schr\"odinger equation through a convenient extension of the Hilbert space formalism. Entanglement shows then properties of growth and transport, the corresponding local and temporary character of entanglement being called here "intricacy" when it occurs. When applied to the continuous interaction of a macroscopic system with a random environment, intricacy implies a "predecoherence" effect, which can generate and transport permanently incoherence within the system. The possible relevance of these results for a theory of wave function collapse is also indicated.

id: 1212.0396
title: Efficient optical pumping and high optical depth in a hollow-core photonic-crystal fibre for a broadband quantum memory
authors: Michael R. Sprague, Duncan G. England, Amir Abdolvand, Joshua Nunn, Xian-Min Jin, W. Steven Kolthammer, Marco Barbieri, Bruno Rigal, Patrick S. Michelberger, Tessa F. M. Champion, Philip St.J. Russell, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0396
abstract: The generation of large multiphoton quantum states - for applications in computing, metrology, and simulation - requires a network of high-efficiency quantum memories capable of storing broadband pulses. Integrating these memories into a fibre offers a number of advantages towards realising this goal: strong light-matter coupling at low powers, simplified alignment, and compatibility with existing photonic architectures. Here, we introduce a large-core kagome-structured hollow-core fibre as a suitable platform for an integrated fibre-based quantum memory with a warm atomic vapour. We demonstrate, for the first time, efficient optical pumping in a hollow-core photonic-crystal fibre with a warm atomic vapour, where (90 $\pm$ 1)% of atoms are prepared in the ground state. We measure high optical depths (3$\times 10^{4}$) and, also, narrow homogeneous linewidths that do not exhibit significant transit-time broadening. Our results establish that kagome fibres are suitable for implementing a broadband, room-temperature quantum memory.

id: 1212.0407
title: Second law of the information thermodynamics with entanglement transfer
authors: Hiroyasu Tajima
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 042143 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0407
abstract: We present a new inequality which holds in the thermodynamical processes with measurement and feedback controls with using only the Helmholtz free energy and the entanglement of formation: $W_{\mathrm{ext}}\le-\Delta F-k_{B}T\Delta E_{F}$. The quantity $-\Delta E_{F}$, which is positive, expresses the amount of entanglement transfer from the system $S$ to the probe $P$ through the interaction $\hat{U}_{SP}$ during the measurement. It is easier to achieve the upper bound in the new inequality than in the Sagawa-Ueda inequality [Phys. Rev. Lett. 100 080403 (2008)]. The new inequality has clear physical meaning: in the above thermodynamical processes, the work which we can extract from the thermodynamic system is greater than the upper bound in the conventional thermodynamics by the amount of the entanglement extracted by the measurement.

id: 1212.0494
title: Identification Via Quantum Channels
authors: Andreas Winter
comments: This is a review article, accepted for publication in the LNCS volume in memory of Rudolf Ahlswede. 17 pages, requires Springer llncs class
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 7777 (2013), pp. 217-233
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0494
abstract: We review the development of the quantum version of Ahlswede and Dueck's theory of identification via channels. As is often the case in quantum probability, there is not just one but several quantizations: we know at least two different concepts of identification of classical information via quantum channels, and three different identification capacities for quantum information. In the present summary overview we concentrate on conceptual points and open problems, referring the reader to the small set of original articles for details.

id: 1212.0497
title: Spin polarization via decoherence in spin-orbit active media coupled to an electron reservoir
authors: Luis A. Gonz¨¢lez-?rraga, Bertrand Berche, Ernesto Medina
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86 (2012) 155312
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0497
abstract: We study the spin polarization of mixed and entangled electron states in a four probe/beam splitter geometry with local Rashba and Dresselhaus interactions. A pair of maximally entangled electrons collides with the beam splitter and enters into two perpendicular branches of length L, composed of spin-orbit active materials (gate confined 2D electron gas). One of the branches is connected to an electron reservoir that acts as a source of decoherence by either behaving as a voltage probe or as a controlled source or sink of current at fixed voltage. Such decoherence source is used to modify the entropy of an unpolarized incoming state in order to generate electron polarization at one or both output branches. The degree of entanglement of the global state and the spin polarization is computed for the outgoing electrons as a function of the coupling to the electron reservoir. Experimentally available spin-orbit strength at the beam splitter arms, for arm lengths of a few micrometers, is able to modulate spin polarization up to 80% in particular spin axes proportional to the decoherence current. The Dresselhaus and Rashba coefficients play a symmetric role in modulating the polarization. Significantly less polarization is achieved for incoming mixed states due to the local operation of the reservoir.

id: 1212.0506
title: Exact synthesis of multiqubit Clifford+T circuits
authors: Brett Giles, Peter Selinger
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032332 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0506
abstract: We prove that a unitary matrix has an exact representation over the Clifford+T gate set with local ancillas if and only if its entries are in the ring Z[1/sqrt(2),i]. Moreover, we show that one ancilla always suffices. These facts were conjectured by Kliuchnikov, Maslov, and Mosca. We obtain an algorithm for synthesizing a exact Clifford+T circuit from any such n-qubit operator. We also characterize the Clifford+T operators that can be represented without ancillas.

id: 1212.0533
title: Bell violation with entangled photons, free of the fair-sampling assumption
authors: Marissa Giustina, Alexandra Mech, Sven Ramelow, Bernhard Wittmann, Johannes Kofler, J?rn Beyer, Adriana Lita, Brice Calkins, Thomas Gerrits, Sae Woo Nam, Rupert Ursin, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: Nature 497, 227-230 (May 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0533
abstract: The violation of a Bell inequality is an experimental observation that forces one to abandon a local realistic worldview, namely, one in which physical properties are (probabilistically) defined prior to and independent of measurement and no physical influence can propagate faster than the speed of light. All such experimental violations require additional assumptions depending on their specific construction making them vulnerable to so-called "loopholes." Here, we use photons and high-efficiency superconducting detectors to violate a Bell inequality closing the fair-sampling loophole, i.e. without assuming that the sample of measured photons accurately represents the entire ensemble. Additionally, we demonstrate that our setup can realize one-sided device-independent quantum key distribution on both sides. This represents a significant advance relevant to both fundamental tests and promising quantum applications.

id: 1212.0556
title: Self-calibrating tomography for multi-dimensional systems
authors: Nicol¨¢s Quesada, Agata M. Bra¨½czyk, Daniel F. V. James
comments: Revised version. 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062118 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0556
abstract: We present a formalism for self-calibrating tomography of arbitrary dimensional systems. Self-calibrating quantum state tomography was first introduced in the context of qubits, and allows the reconstruction of the density matrix of an unknown quantum state despite incomplete knowledge of the unitary operations used to change the measurement basis. We show how this can be generalized to qudits, i.e. d-level systems, and provide a specific example for a V-type three-level atomic system whose transition dipole moments are not known. We show that it is always possible to retrieve the unknown state and process parameters, except for a set of zero measure in the state-parameter space.

id: 1212.0584
title: Robust tripartite-to-bipartite entanglement localization by weak measurements and reversal
authors: Chunmei Yao, Zhi-Hao Ma, Zhi-Hua Chen, Alessio Serafini
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022312 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0584
abstract: We propose a robust and efficient approach for tripartite-to-bipartite entanglement localization. By using weak measurements and quantum measurement reversal, an almost maximal entangled state shared by two parties can be generated with the assistance of the third party by local quantum operations and classical communication from a W-like state. We show that this approach works well in the presence of losses and phase diffusion. Our method provides an active way to fight against decoherence, and might help for quantum communication and distributed quantum computation.

id: 1212.0636
title: Hidden variable problem for a family of continuously many spin 1 measurements
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Akihito Soeda, Bartlomiej Bzdega, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 4+ pages, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022127 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0636
abstract: We study a continuous set of spin 1 measurements and show that for a special family of measurements parametrized by a single variable $\theta$ the possibility of hidden-variable description is a discontinuous property.

id: 1212.0641
title: Selectable linear or quadratic coupling in an optomechanical system
authors: Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures; comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023830 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0641
abstract: There has been much interest recently in the analysis of optomechanical systems incorporating dielectric nano- or microspheres inside a cavity field. We analyse here the situation when one of the mirrors of the cavity itself is also allowed to move. We reveal that the interplay between the two oscillators yields a cross-coupling that results in, e.g., appreciable cooling and squeezing of the motion of the sphere, despite its nominal quadratic coupling. We also discuss a simple modification that would allow this cross-coupling to be removed at will, thereby yielding a purely quadratic coupling for the sphere.

id: 1212.0711
title: Motional Entanglement with Trapped Ions and a Nanomechanical Resonator
authors: F. Nicacio, K. Furuya, F. L. Semi?o
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022330 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0711
abstract: We study the entangling power of a nanoelectromechanical system (NEMS) simultaneously interacting with two separately trapped ions. To highlight this entangling capability, we consider a special regime where the ion-ion coupling does not generate entanglement in the system, and any resulting entanglement will be the result of the NEMS acting as an entangling device. We study the dynamical behavior of the bipartite NEMS-induced ion-ion entanglement as well as the tripartite entanglement of the whole system (ions+NEMS). We found some quite remarkable phenomena in this hybrid system. For instance, the two trapped ions initially uncorrelated and prepared in coherent states can become entangled by interacting with a nanoelectromechanical resonator (also prepared in a coherent state) as soon as the ion-NEMS coupling achieve a certain value, and this can be controlled by external voltage gate on the NEMS device.

id: 1212.0725
title: A note on quantum McEliece public-key cryptosystem
authors: Li Yang, Min Liang
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0725
abstract: Inspired by Fujita's analysis [Quantum inf. & comput. 12(3&4), 2012], we suggest a twice-encryption scheme to improve the security of the original quantum McEliece public-key encryption algorithm.

id: 1212.0734
title: Quantum toy-model escape to Jordan-block horizon
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 19 pp., 4 figures, 4 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0734
abstract: An an exactly solvable quantum model is found to sample the evolution towards the sudden and complete loss of observability. For the purpose we choose an N-level system. While the time runs from 0 to 1, the process (leading to the collapse) is controlled by a toy-model Hamiltonian H and by a unitary-evolution guaranteeing minimally anisotropic (i.e., unique) Hilbert-space metric. The process of the degeneracy of the real N-plet of energy levels is studied without the usual assumption of adiabaticity. The initial Hamiltonian is diagonal, the initial metric is chosen as identity. Once the system reaches the observability horizon, the metric becomes singular (of rank one) while the end-point Hamiltonian acquires the canonical Jordan-block form (i.e., it loses its diagonalizability). An optimal measure of the distance from the final catastrophe is finally found in a universal, exact formula for the spectrum of the metric.

id: 1212.0743
title: Non-relativistic quantum theory at finite temperature
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Bo-Jun Zhang, Xiao-Jing Liu, Si-Qi Zhang, Jing Wang, Hong Li, Nou Ba, Li Xiao, Yi-Heng Wu
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:hep-th/0506258 by other authors without attribution
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0743
abstract: We propose the non-relativistic finite temperature quantum wave equations for a single particle and multiple particles. We give the relation between energy eigenvalues, eigenfunctions, transition frequency and temperature, and obtain some results: (1) when the degeneracies of two energy levels are same, the transition frequency between the two energy levels is unchanged when the temperature is changed. (2) When the degeneracies of two energy levels are different, the variance of transition frequency at two energy levels is direct proportion to temperature difference.

id: 1212.0756
title: Born's rule from statistical mechanics of classical fields: from hitting times to quantum probabilities
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0906.1539 by other authors
journal: Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, 393, 207-221, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0756
abstract: We show that quantum probabilities can be derived from statistical mechanics of classical fields. We consider Brownian motion in the space of fields and show that such a random field interacting with threshold type detectors produces clicks at random moments of time. And the corresponding probability distribution can be approximately described by the formalism of quantum mechanics. Hence, probabilities in quantum mechanics and classical statistical mechanics differ not so much as it is typically claimed. The temporal structure of the "prequantum random field" (which is the $L_2$-valued Wiener process) plays the crucial role. Moments of detector's clicks are mathematically described as hitting times which are actively used in classical theory of stochastic processes. Born's rule appears as an approximate rule. In principle, the difference between the "precise detection probability rule" derived in this paper and the conventional Born's rule can be tested experimentally. In our model the presence of the random gain in detectors playes a crucial role. We also stress the role of the detection threshold. It is not merely a technicality, but the fundamental element of the model.

id: 1212.0758
title: Observables Generalizing Positive Operator Valued Measures
authors: Irina Basieva, Andrei Khrennikov
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0711.1366
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0758
abstract: We discuss a generalization of POVM which is used in quantum-like modeling of mental processing.

id: 1212.0801
title: A G-FDTD Method for Solving the Multi-Dimensional Time-Dependent Schrodinger Equation
authors: Frederick Ira Moxley III, Weizhong Dai
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0801
abstract: The Finite-Difference Time-Domain (FDTD) method is a well-known technique for the analysis of quantum devices. It solves a discretized Schrodinger equation in an explicitly iterative process. However, the method requires the spatial grid size and time step satisfy a very restricted condition in order to prevent the numerical solution from diverging. In this article, we present a generalized FDTD (G-FDTD) method for solving the multi-dimensional time-dependent Schrodinger equation, and obtain a more relaxed condition for stability when the finite difference approximations for spatial derivatives are employed. As such, a larger time step may be chosen. This is particularly important for quantum computations. The new G-FDTD method is tested by simulation of a particle moving in 2-D free space and then hitting an energy potential. Numerical results coincide with those obtained based on the theoretical analysis.

id: 1212.0822
title: Asymptotically optimal approximation of single qubit unitaries by Clifford and T circuits using a constant number of ancillary qubits
authors: Vadym Kliuchnikov, Dmitri Maslov, Michele Mosca
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 190502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0822
abstract: We present an algorithm for building a circuit that approximates single qubit unitaries with precision {\epsilon} using O(log(1/{\epsilon})) Clifford and T gates and employing up to two ancillary qubits. The algorithm for computing our approximating circuit requires an average of O(log^2(1/{\epsilon})log log(1/{\epsilon})) operations. We prove that the number of gates in our circuit saturates the lower bound on the number of gates required in the scenario when a constant number of ancillae are supplied, and as such, our circuits are asymptotically optimal. This results in significant improvement over the current state of the art for finding an approximation of a unitary, including the Solovay-Kitaev algorithm that requires O(log^{3+{\delta}}(1/{\epsilon})) gates and does not use ancillae and the phase kickback approach that requires O(log^2(1/{\epsilon})log log(1/{\epsilon})) gates, but uses O(log^2(1/{\epsilon})) ancillae.

id: 1212.0832
title: Experimental implementation of assisted quantum adiabatic passage in a single spin
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Jeong Hyun Shim, Ingo Niemeyer, T. Taniguchi, T. Teraji, H. Abe, S. Onoda, T. Yamamoto, T. Ohshima, J. Isoya, Dieter Suter
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 240501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0832
abstract: Quantum adiabatic passages can be greatly accelerated by a suitable control field, called a counter-diabatic field, which varies during the scan through resonance. Here, we implement this technique on the electron spin of a single nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond. We demonstrate two versions of this scheme. The first follows closely the procedure originally proposed by Demirplak and Rice (J. Phys. Chem. A 107, 9937 (2003)). In the second scheme, we use a control field whose amplitude is constant, but its phase varies with time. This version, which we call the rapid-scan approach, allows an even faster passage through resonance and therefore makes it applicable also for systems with shorter decoherence times.

id: 1212.0845
title: A Quantum Performance Simulator based on fidelity and fault-path counting
authors: Andre Van Rynbach, Ahsan Muhammad, Abhijit C. Mehta, Jeffrey Hussmann, Jungsang Kim
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0845
abstract: Quantum performance simulators can provide practical metrics for the effectiveness of executing theoretical quantum information processing protocols on physical hardware. In this work we present a scheme to simulate the performance of fault tolerant quantum computation by automating the tracking of common fault paths for error propagation through a circuit and quantifying the fidelity of each qubit throughout the computation. Our simulation tool outputs the expected execution time, required number of qubits and the final error rate of running common fault tolerant protocols on a universal hardware, assumed to be a network of qubits with full connectivity. Our technique efficiently estimates the upper bound of error probability and provides a useful performance measure of the error threshold at low error rates where conventional Monte Carlo methods are ineffective. To verify the proposed simulator, we present simulation results comparing the execution of quantum adders which constitute a major part of Shor's algorithm.

id: 1212.0902
title: Phase transition of light on complex quantum networks
authors: Arda Halu, Silvano Garnerone, Alessandro Vezzani, Ginestra Bianconi
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 022104 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0902
abstract: Recent advances in quantum optics and atomic physics allow for an unprecedented level of control over light-matter interactions, which can be exploited to investigate new physical phenomena. In this work we are interested in the role played by the topology of quantum networks describing coupled optical cavities and local atomic degrees of freedom. In particular, using a mean-field approximation, we study the phase diagram of the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model on complex networks topologies, and we characterize the transition between a Mott-like phase of localized polaritons and a superfluid phase. We found that, for complex topologies, the phase diagram is non-trivial and well defined in the thermodynamic limit only if the hopping coefficient scales like the inverse of the maximal eigenvalue of the adjacency matrix of the network. Furthermore we provide numerical evidences that, for some complex network topologies, this scaling implies an asymptotically vanishing hopping coefficient in the limit of large network sizes. The latter result suggests the interesting possibility of observing quantum phase transitions of light on complex quantum networks even with very small couplings between the optical cavities.

id: 1212.0917
title: Fisher information under decoherence in Bloch representation
authors: Wei Zhong, Zhe Sun, Jian Ma, Xiaoguang Wang, Franco Nori
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A.87.022337(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0917
abstract: The dynamics of two variants of quantum Fisher information under decoherence are investigated from a geometrical point of view. We first derive the explicit formulas of these two quantities for a single qubit in terms of the Bloch vector. Moreover, we obtain analytical results for them under three different decoherence channels, which are expressed as affine transformation matrices. Using the hierarchy equation method, we numerically study the dynamics of both the two information in a dissipative model and compare the numerical results with the analytical ones obtained by applying the rotating-wave approximation. We further express the two information quantities in terms of the Bloch vector for a qudit, by expanding the density matrix and Hermitian operators in a common set of generators of the Lie algebra $\mathfrak{su}(d)$. By calculating the dynamical quantum Fisher information, we find that the collisional dephasing significantly diminishes the precision of phase parameter with the Ramsey interferometry.

id: 1212.0938
title: An Unconditionally Secure Quantum Bit Commitment Protocol
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0938
abstract: This article describes a quantum bit commitment protocol, QBC1, based on entanglement destruction via forced measurements and proves its unconditional security.

id: 1212.0968
title: Simultaneous continuous measurement of photon-counting and homodyne detection on a free photon field: dynamics of state reduction and mutual influence of measurement backaction
authors: Yui Kuramochi, Yu Watanabe, Masahito Ueda
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 425303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0968
abstract: We analyze a simultaneous continuous measurement of photon-counting and homodyne detection. The stochastic master equation or stochastic Schr\"odinger equation describing the measurement process includes both jump-type and diffusive-type stochastic increments. Analytic expressions of the wave function conditioned on homodyne and photon-counting records are obtained, yielding the probability density distributions and generating functions of the measurement records. Formula for the expectation values of the homodyne records conditioned on a photon-counting event is also derived which quantitatively describes the measurement backaction of photon-counting on the homodyne output. The obtained results are applied to typical initial states --- coherent, number, thermal, and squeezed states. Monte Carlo simulations of the measurement processes are also presented to demonstrate the dynamics of the combined measurement process.

id: 1212.0972
title: Proving the Generation of Genuine Multipartite Entanglement in a Single-Neutron Interferometer Experiment
authors: Daniel Erd?si, Marcus Huber, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr, Yuji Hasegawa
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 023033. http://stacks.iop.org/1367-2630/15/023033
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0972
abstract: We present experimental evidence of the generation of distinct types of genuine multipartite entanglement between three degrees of freedom, two internal and one external degree of freedom, within single-neutron quantum systems. This is achieved via the development of new spin manipulation apparatuses for neutron interferometry and the genuine multipartite entanglement is detected via appropriately designed and optimized non-linear witnesses. Via the applied criteria we reveal even finer properties of the type of the genuine multipartite entanglement that is produced in the experiment. In a subsequent analysis we show the extraordinarily high fidelity of genuine tripartite entangled states, proving the outstanding level of controllability of these systems.

id: 1212.0974
title: Displacement-enhanced continuous-variable entanglement concentration
authors: Ond?ej ?ernot¨ªk, Jarom¨ªr Fiur¨¢?ek
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052339 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0974
abstract: We study entanglement concentration of continuous variable Gaussian states by local photon subtractions enhanced by coherent displacements. Instead of the previously considered symmetric two-mode squeezed vacuum states, we investigate the protocol for input states in the form of split single-mode squeezed vacuum, i.e., states obtained by mixing a single-mode squeezed vacuum with a vacuum state on a beam splitter, which is an experimentally highly relevant configuration. We analyze two scenarios in which the displacement-enhanced photon subtraction is performed either only on one, or on both of the modes and show that local displacements can lead to improved performance of the concentration protocol.

id: 1212.1109
title: Weak limits for quantum walks on the half-line
authors: Chaobin Liu, Nelson Petulante
comments: Added references and some other updates, corrected typos
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf., Vol. 11, No. 5 (2013) 1350054
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1109
abstract: For a discrete two-state quantum walk (QW) on the half-line with a general condition at the boundary, we formulate and prove a weak limit theorem describing the terminal behavior of its transition probabilities. In this context, localization is possible even for a walk predicated on the assumption of homogeneity. For the Hadamard walk on the half-line, the weak limit is shown to be independent of the initial coin state and to exhibit no localization.

id: 1212.1114
title: Particles, holes and solitons: a matrix product state approach
authors: Damian Draxler, Jutho Haegeman, Tobias J. Osborne, Vid Stojevic, Laurens Vanderstraeten, Frank Verstraete
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 020402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1114
abstract: We introduce a variational method for calculating dispersion relations of translation invariant (1+1)-dimensional quantum field theories. The method is based on continuous matrix product states and can be implemented efficiently. We study the critical Lieb-Liniger model as a benchmark and excelent agreement with the exact solution is found. Additionally, we observe solitonic signatures of Lieb's Type II excitation. In addition, a non-integrable model is introduced where a U(1)-symmetry breaking term is added to the Lieb-Liniger Hamiltonian. For this model we find evidence of a non-trivial bound-state excitation in the dispersion relation.

id: 1212.1138
title: Quantum gates in mesoscopic atomic ensembles based on adiabatic passage and Rydberg blockade
authors: I. I. Beterov, M. Saffman, E. A. Yakshina, V. P. Zhukov, D. B. Tretyakov, V. M. Entin, I. I. Ryabtsev, C. W. Mansell, C. MacCormick, S. Bergamini, M. P. Fedoruk
comments: 4 figures, supplemental information now included
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 010303(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1138
abstract: We present schemes for geometric phase compensation in adiabatic passage which can be used for the implementation of quantum logic gates with atomic ensembles consisting of an arbitrary number of strongly interacting atoms. Protocols using double sequences of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) or adiabatic rapid passage (ARP) pulses are analyzed. Switching the sign of the detuning between two STIRAP sequences, or inverting the phase between two ARP pulses, provides state transfer with well defined amplitude and phase independent of atom number in the Rydberg blockade regime. Using these pulse sequences we present protocols for universal single-qubit and two-qubit operations in atomic ensembles containing an unknown number of atoms.

id: 1212.1232
title: Quantum optomechanics with a mixture of ultracold atoms
authors: H. Jing, X. Zhao, L. F. Buchmann
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 065801 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1232
abstract: We study cavity optomechanics of a mixture of ultracold atoms with tunable nonlinear collisions. We show that atomic collisions provide linear couplings between fictitious condensate oscillators, leading to possibilities of achieving a globally coupled quantum optomechanical network with an integrated atom chip. Potential applications range from simulating collective nonequilibrium dynamics in fields well past physics to probing unique properties of quantum mixtures.

id: 1212.1280
title: Nonclassical Radiation from Thermal Cavities in the Ultrastrong Coupling Regime
authors: Alessandro Ridolfo, Salvatore Savasta, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: results on frequency resolved photon correlations added, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 163601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1280
abstract: Thermal or chaotic light sources emit radiation characterized by a slightly enhanced probability of emitting photons in bunches, described by a zero-delay second-order correlation function $g^{(2)}(0) = 2$. Here we explore photon-coincidence counting statistics of thermal cavities in the ultrastrong coupling regime, where the atom-cavity coupling rate becomes comparable to the cavity resonance frequency. We find that, depending on the system temperature and coupling rate, thermal photons escaping the cavity can display very different statistical behaviors, characterised by second-order correlation functions approaching zero or greatly exceeding two.

id: 1212.1299
title: Physics and Metaphysics
authors: E.A.Solov'ev
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1001.2683
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1299
abstract: Experiment plays a decisive role in physics. It is the single source of our understanding of nature. But, during the last century the main accent in theoretical physics has moved toward metaphysics. Some mathematicians/theoreticians try to develop new approaches, ignoring experiments. Three examples of such treatment are discussed here: the Gutzwiller approach, the classical description of the tunneling phenomenon and the role of irregular motion in classical mechanics. The foundations of special relativity are also discussed.

id: 1212.1309
title: Entangling photons via the quantum Zeno effect
authors: Nicolai ten Brinke, Andreas Osterloh, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 43 pages, 11 figures, iopart style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1309
abstract: The quantum Zeno effect describes the inhibition of quantum evolution by frequent measurements. Here, we propose a scheme for entangling two given photons based on this effect. We consider a linear-optics set-up with an absorber medium whose two-photon absorption rate $\xi_{2\gamma}$ exceeds the one-photon loss rate $\xi_{1\gamma}$. In order to reach an error probability $P_{\rm error}$, we need $\xi_{1\gamma}/\xi_{2\gamma}<2P_{\rm error}^2/\pi^2$, which is a factor of 64 better than previous approaches (e.g., by Franson et al). Since typical media have $\xi_{2\gamma}<\xi_{1\gamma}$, we discuss three mechanisms for enhancing two-photon absorption as compared to one-photon loss. The first mechanism again employs the quantum Zeno effect via self-interference effects when sending two photons repeatedly through the same absorber. The second mechanism is based on coherent excitations of many atoms and exploits the fact that $\xi_{2\gamma}$ scales with the number of excitations but $\xi_{1\gamma}$ does not. The third mechanism envisages three-level systems where the middle level is meta-stable ($\Lambda$-system). In this case, $\xi_{1\gamma}$ is more strongly reduced than $\xi_{2\gamma}$ and thus it should be possible to achieve $\xi_{2\gamma}/\xi_{1\gamma}\gg1$. In conclusion, although our scheme poses challenges regarding the density of active atoms/molecules in the absorber medium, their coupling constants and the detuning, etc., we find that a two-photon gate with an error probability $P_{\rm error}$ below 25% might be feasible using present-day technology.

id: 1212.1337
title: Families of completely positive maps associated with monotone metrics
authors: Fumio Hiai, Hideki Kosaki, Denes Petz, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: Final version to appear in Lin Alg. Appl. Links to preprints added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1337
abstract: An operator convex function on (0,\infty) which satisfies the symmetry condition k(1/x) = x k(x) can be used to define a type of non-commutative multiplication by a positive definite matrix (or its inverse) using the primitive concepts of left and right multiplication and the functional calculus. The operators for the inverse can be used to define quadratic forms associated with Riemannian metrics which contract under the action of completely positive trace-preserving maps. We study the question of when these operators define maps which are also completely positive (CP). Although A --> D^{-1/2} A D^{-1/2} is the only case for which both the map and its inverse are CP, there are several well-known one parameter families for which either the map or its inverse is CP. We present a complete analysis of the behavior of these families, as well as the behavior of lines connecting an extreme point with the smallest one and some results for geometric bridges between these points. Our primary tool is an order relation based on the concept of positive definite functions. Although some results can be obtained from known properties, we also prove new results based on the positivity of the Fourier transforms of certain functions. Concrete computations of certain Fourier transforms not only yield new examples of positive definite functions, but also examples in the much stronger class of infinitely divisible functions.

id: 1212.1443
title: Transparent ion trap with integrated photodetector
authors: Amira M. Eltony, Shannon X. Wang, Gleb M. Akselrod, Peter F. Herskind, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures, submitted to APL, (v2) reference added
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 054106 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1443
abstract: Fluorescence collection sets the efficiency of state detection and the rate of entanglement generation between remote trapped ion qubits. Despite efforts to improve light collection using various optical elements, solid angle capture is limited to ~10% for implementations that are scalable to many ions. We present an approach based on fluorescence detection through a transparent trap using an integrated photodetector, combining collection efficiency approaching 50% with scalability. We microfabricate transparent surface traps with indium tin oxide and verify stable trapping of single ions. The fluorescence from a cloud of ions is detected using a photodiode sandwiched with a transparent trap.

id: 1212.1483
title: Multidimensional quantum information based on single-photon temporal wavepackets
authors: Alex Hayat, Xingxing Xing, Amir Feizpour, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Opt. Express, 20, 29174 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1483
abstract: We propose a multidimensional quantum information encoding approach based on temporal modulation of single photons, where the Hilbert space can be spanned by an in-principle infinite set of orthonormal temporal profiles. We analyze two specific realizations of such modulation schemes, and show that error rate per symbol can be smaller than 1% for practical implementations. Temporal modulation may enable multidimensional quantum communication over the existing fiber optical infrastructure, as well as provide an avenue for probing high-dimensional entanglement approaching the continuous limit.

id: 1212.1484
title: Dynamics of quantum correlations in colored environments
authors: C. Benedetti, F. Buscemi, P. Bordone, M. G. A. Paris
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052328 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1484
abstract: We address the dynamics of entanglement and quantum discord for two non interacting qubits initially prepared in a maximally entangled state and then subjected to a classical colored noise, i.e. coupled with an external environment characterized by a noise spectrum of the form $1/f^{\alpha}$. More specifically, we address systems where the Gaussian approximation fails, i.e. the sole knowledge of the spectrum is not enough to determine the dynamics of quantum correlations. We thus investigate the dynamics for two different configurations of the environment: in the first case the noise spectrum is due to the interaction of each qubit with a single bistable fluctuator with an undetermined switching rate, whereas in the second case we consider a collection of classical fluctuators with fixed switching rates. In both cases we found analytical expressions for the time dependence of entanglement and quantum discord, which may be also extended to a collection of flcutuators with random switching rates. The environmental noise is introduced by means of stochastic time-dependent terms in the Hamiltonian and this allows us to describe the effects of both separate and common environments. We show that the non-Gaussian character of the noise may lead to significant effects, e.g. environments with the same power spectrum, but different configurations, give raise to opposite behavior for the quantum correlations. In particular, depending on the characteristics of the environmental noise considered, both entanglement and discord display either a monotonic decay or the phenomena of sudden death and revivals. Our results show that the microscopic structure of environment, besides its noise spectrum, is relevant for the dynamics of quantum correlations, and may be a valid starting point for the engineering of non-Gaussian colored environments.

id: 1212.1495
title: Absolute magnetometry based on quantum beats in diamond nitrogen-vacancy centers
authors: Kejie Fang, Victor M. Acosta, Charles Santori, Zhihong Huang, Kohei M. Itoh, Hideyuki Watanabe, Shinichi Shikata, Raymond G. Beausoleil
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1495
abstract: We demonstrate an absolute magnetometer immune to temperature fluctuation and strain inhomogeneity, based on quantum beats in the ground state of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond. We apply this technique to measure low-frequency magnetic field noise using a single nitrogen-vacancy center located within 500 nm of the surface of an isotopically-pure (99.99% C12) diamond. The photon-shot-noise limited sensitivity achieves 38 nT/Hz^1/2 for 4.45 s acquisition time, a factor of 2^1/2 better than the implementation which uses only two spin levels. For long acquisition times (>10 s), we realize up to a factor of 15 improvement in magnetic sensitivity, which demonstrates the robustness of our technique against thermal drifts. Applying our technique to nitrogen-vacancy center ensembles, we eliminate dephasing from longitudinal strain inhomogeneity, resulting in a factor of 2.3 improvement in sensitivity.

id: 1212.1512
title: Rotating Wave Approximation of the Law's Effective Hamiltonian on the Dynamical Casimir Effect
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Tatsuo Suzuki
comments: Latex; 12 pages; no figure; minor changes (references updated). To appear in International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics
journal: Int. J. Geom. Methods Mod. Phys, 11 (2014), 1450003 (9 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1512
abstract: In this paper we treat the Law's effective Hamiltonian of the Dynamical Casimir Effect in a cavity and construct an analytic approximate solution of the time-dependent Schr{\"o}dinger equation under the general setting through a kind of rotating wave approximation (RWA). To the best of our knowledge this is the finest analytic approximate solution.

id: 1212.1676
title: Parity-time symmetric optical coupler with birefringent arms
authors: K. Li, D. A. Zezyulin, V. V. Konotop, P. G. Kevrekidis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1676
abstract: In this work, we propose a PT-symmetric coupler whose arms are birefringent waveguides as a realistic physical model which leads to a so-called quadrimer i.e., a four complex field setting. We seek stationary solutions of the resulting linear and nonlinear model, identifying its linear point of PT symmetry breaking and examining the corresponding nonlinear solutions that persist up to this point, as well as, so-called, ghost states that bifurcate from them. We obtain the relevant symmetry breaking bifurcations and numerically follow the associated dynamics which give rise to growth/decay even within the PT-symmetric phase. Our obtained stationary nonlinear solutions are found to terminate in saddle-center bifurcations which are analogous to the linear PT-phase transition.

id: 1212.1724
title: Graph Homomorphisms for Quantum Players
authors: David E. Roberson, Laura Mancinska
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1724
abstract: A homomorphism from a graph X to a graph Y is an adjacency preserving mapping f:V(X)->V(Y). We consider a nonlocal game in which Alice and Bob are trying to convince a verifier with certainty that a graph X admits a homomorphism to Y. This is a generalization of the well-studied graph coloring game. Via systematic study of quantum homomorphisms we prove new results for graph coloring. Most importantly, we show that the Lovasz theta number of the complement lower bounds the quantum chromatic number, which itself is not known to be computable. We also show that other quantum graph parameters, such as quantum independence number, can differ from their classical counterparts. Finally, we show that quantum homomorphisms closely relate to zero-error channel capacity. In particular, we use quantum homomorphisms to construct graphs for which entanglement-assistance increases their one-shot zero-error capacity.

id: 1212.1739
title: Experimental signature of programmable quantum annealing
authors: Sergio Boixo, Tameem Albash, Federico M. Spedalieri, Nicholas Chancellor, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: Nature Comm. 4, 3067 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1739
abstract: Quantum annealing is a general strategy for solving difficult optimization problems with the aid of quantum adiabatic evolution. Both analytical and numerical evidence suggests that under idealized, closed system conditions, quantum annealing can outperform classical thermalization-based algorithms such as simulated annealing. Do engineered quantum annealing devices effectively perform classical thermalization when coupled to a decohering thermal environment? To address this we establish, using superconducting flux qubits with programmable spin-spin couplings, an experimental signature which is consistent with quantum annealing, and at the same time inconsistent with classical thermalization, in spite of a decoherence timescale which is orders of magnitude shorter than the adiabatic evolution time. This suggests that programmable quantum devices, scalable with current superconducting technology, implement quantum annealing with a surprising robustness against noise and imperfections.

id: 1212.1753
title: Reduced Operator Approximation for Modelling Open Quantum Systems
authors: Agnieszka Werpachowska
comments: 22+4 pages, 7 figures (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1753
abstract: We present the Reduced Operator Approximation: a simple, physically transparent and computationally efficient method of modelling open quantum systems. It employs the Heisenberg picture of the quantum dynamics, which allows us to focus on the system degrees of freedom in a natural and easy way. We describe different variants of the method, low- and high-order in the system-bath interaction operators, defining them for either general quantum harmonic oscillator baths or specialising them for independent baths with Lorentzian spectral densities. Its wide applicability is demonstrated on the examples of systems coupled to different baths (with varying system-bath interaction strength and bath memory length), and compared with the exact pseudomode and the popular quantum state diffusion approach. The method captures the decoherence of the system interacting with the bath, while conserving the total energy. Our results suggest that quantum coherence effects persist in open quantum systems for much longer times than previously thought.

id: 1212.1756
title: Specker's fundamental principle of quantum mechanics
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 1 figure, 1 video
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1756
abstract: I draw attention to the fact that three recently proposed physical principles, namely "local orthogonality", "global exclusive disjunction", and "compatible orthogonality" are not new principles, but different versions of a principle that Ernst Specker noticed long ago. I include a video of Specker stating this principle in 2009 in the following terms: "Do you know what, according to me, is the fundamental theorem of quantum mechanics? (...) That is, if you have several questions and you can answer any two of them, then you can also answer all of them". I overview some results that suggest that Specker's principle may be of fundamental importance for explaining quantum contextuality. Specker passed away in December 10, 2011, at the age of 91.

id: 1212.1817
title: Demonstration of active feedforward one-way quantum computing with photon-matter hyperentanglement
authors: Xiao-Fan Xu, Xiao-Hui Bao, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 050304(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1817
abstract: We report an optical one-way quantum computing experiment with stationary quantum memory involved. First we create a hybrid four-qubit cluster state with two qubits propagating as photons and the other two stationary and stored in a laser-cooled atomic-ensemble quantum memory, and characterize it with entanglement witness and quantum state tomography. Then, by making use of this cluster state and fast operations of electro-optic modulators, we realize memory-assisted feedforward operations and demonstrate deterministic single-qubit rotation as an example.

id: 1212.1828
title: Relativistic symmetries in the Hulth¨¦n scalar-vector-tensor interactions
authors: A. A. Rajabi, M. Hamzavi
comments: 14 pages, 2 tables, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1828
abstract: In the presence of spin and pseudospin (p-spin) symmetries, the approximate analytical bound states of the Dirac equation for scalar-vector-tensor Hulth\'en potentials are obtained with any arbitrary spin-orbit coupling number using the Pekeris approximation. The Hulth\'en tensor interaction is studied instead of the commonly used Coulomb or linear terms. The generalized parametric Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method is used to obtain energy eigenvalues and corresponding wave functions in their closed forms. We show that tensor interaction removes degeneracies between spin and p-spin doublets. Some numerical results are also given.

id: 1212.1830
title: Tensor coupling and relativistic spin and pseudospin symmetries with the Hellmann potential
authors: A. A. Rajabi, M. Hamzavi
comments: 15 pages, 4 tables, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1830
abstract: The Hellmann potential is a superposition potential that consists of an attractive Coulomb potential and a Yukawa potential. By using the generalized parametric Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method, we have studied the approximate analytical solutions of the Dirac equation with the Hellmann potential including a Coulomb-like tensor potential for arbitrary spin-orbit quantum number k under the presence of exact spin and pseudo-spin (p-spin) symmetries. We show that tensor interaction removes degeneracies between spin and pseudospin doublets. As particular cases, we found the energy levels of non-relativistic case and also the pure Coulomb potential energy levels.

id: 1212.1861
title: General PT-Symmetric Matrices
authors: Jia-wen Deng, Uwe Guenther, Qing-hai Wang
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1861
abstract: Three ways of constructing a non-Hermitian matrix with possible all real eigenvalues are discussed. They are PT symmetry, pseudo-Hermiticity, and generalized PT symmetry. Parameter counting is provided for each class. All three classes of matrices have more real parameters than a Hermitian matrix with the same dimension. The generalized PT-symmetric matrices are most general among the three. All self-adjoint matrices process a generalized PT symmetry. For a given matrix, it can be both PT-symmetric and P'-pseudo-Hermitian with respect to some P' operators. The relation between corresponding P and P' operators is established. The Jordan block structures of each class are discussed. Explicit examples in 2x2 are shown.

id: 1212.1862
title: On the response of quantum linear systems to single photon input fields
authors: Guofeng Zhang, Matthew R. James
comments: 35 pages, 4 figures, accepted by IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1862
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to extend linear systems and signals theory to include single photon quantum signals. We provide detailed results describing how quantum linear systems respond to multichannel single photon quantum signals. In particular, we characterize the class of states (which we call {\em photon-Gaussian} states) that result when multichannel photons are input to a quantum linear system. We show that this class of quantum states is preserved by quantum linear systems. Multichannel photon-Gaussian states are defined via the action of certain creation and annihilation operators on Gaussian states. Our results show how the output states are determined from the input states through a pair of transfer function relations. We also provide equations from which output signal intensities can be computed. Examples from quantum optics are provided to illustrate the results.

id: 1212.1945
title: Cavity driven by a single photon: conditional dynamics and non-linear phase shift
authors: A. R. R. Carvalho, M. R. Hush, M. R. James
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023806 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1945
abstract: We apply the stochastic master equations (quantum filter) derived by Gough et al. (Proc. 50th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, 2011) to a system consisting of a cavity driven by a multimode single photon field. In particular, we analyse the conditional dynamics for the problem of cross phase modulation in a doubly resonant cavity. Through the exact integration of the stochastic equations, our results reveal features of the problem unavailable from previous models.

id: 1212.1971
title: Time-Frequency Integrals and the Stationary Phase Method in Problems of Waves Propagation from Moving Sources
authors: Gennadiy Burlak, Vladimir Rabinovich
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 096, 21 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1971
abstract: The time-frequency integrals and the two-dimensional stationary phase method are applied to study the electromagnetic waves radiated by moving modulated sources in dispersive media. We show that such unified approach leads to explicit expressions for the field amplitudes and simple relations for the field eigenfrequencies and the retardation time that become the coupled variables. The main features of the technique are illustrated by examples of the moving source fields in the plasma and the Cherenkov radiation. It is emphasized that the deeper insight to the wave effects in dispersive case already requires the explicit formulation of the dispersive material model. As the advanced application we have considered the Doppler frequency shift in a complex single-resonant dispersive metamaterial (Lorenz) model where in some frequency ranges the negativity of the real part of the refraction index can be reached. We have demonstrated that in dispersive case the Doppler frequency shift acquires a nonlinear dependence on the modulating frequency of the radiated particle. The detailed frequency dependence of such a shift and spectral behavior of phase and group velocities (that have the opposite directions) are studied numerically.

id: 1212.1973
title: Detectors for probing relativistic quantum physics beyond perturbation theory
authors: Eric G. Brown, Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Nicolas C. Menicucci, Robert B. Mann
comments: v2: Updated bibliography to add Arxiv reference of citation to unpublished work. v3: Added Journal reference and minor updates to match published version. 19 pages, 5 figures, revtex 4.1
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 084062 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1973
abstract: We develop a general formalism for a non-perturbative treatment of harmonic-oscillator particle detectors in relativistic quantum field theory using continuous-variables techniques. By means of this we forgo perturbation theory altogether and reduce the complete dynamics to a readily solvable set of first-order, linear differential equations. The formalism applies unchanged to a wide variety of physical setups, including arbitrary detector trajectories, any number of detectors, arbitrary time-dependent quadratic couplings, arbitrary Gaussian initial states, and a variety of background spacetimes. As a first set of concrete results, we prove non-perturbatively--and without invoking Bogoliubov transformations--that an accelerated detector in a cavity evolves to a state that is very nearly thermal with a temperature proportional to its acceleration, allowing us to discuss the universality of the Unruh effect. Additionally we quantitatively analyze the problems of considering single-mode approximations in cavity field theory and show the emergence of causal behaviour when we include a sufficiently large number of field modes in the analysis. Finally, we analyze how the harmonic particle detector can harvest entanglement from the vacuum. We also study the effect of noise in time dependent problems introduced by suddenly switching on the interaction versus ramping it up slowly (adiabatic activation).

id: 1212.2019
title: Testing nonlocality of a single photon without a shared reference frame
authors: Jonatan Bohr Brask, Rafael Chaves, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012111 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2019
abstract: The question of testing the nonlocality of a single photon has raised much debate over the last years. The controversy is intimately related to the issue of providing a common reference frame for the observers to perform their local measurements. Here we address this point by presenting a simple scheme for demonstrating the nonlocality of a single photon which does not require a shared reference frame. Specifically, Bell inequality violation can be obtained with certainty with unaligned devices, even if the relative frame fluctuates between each experimental run of the Bell test. Our scheme appears feasible with current technology, and may simplify the realization of quantum communication protocols based on single-photon entanglement.

id: 1212.2029
title: Non-Markovian random unitary qubit dynamics
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Filip A. Wudarski
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377, 1425 (2013),
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2029
abstract: We compare two approaches to non-Markovian quantum evolution: one based on the concept of divisible maps and the other one based on distinguishability of quantum states. The former concept is fully characterized in terms of local generator whereas it is in general not true for the latter one. A simple example of random unitary dynamics of a qubit shows the intricate difference between those approaches. Moreover, in this case both approaches are fully characterized in terms of local decoherence rates. As a byproduct it is shown that entropy might monotonically increase even for non-Markovian qubit dynamics.

id: 1212.2048
title: Realizable receivers for discriminating arbitrary coherent-state waveforms and multi-copy quantum states near the quantum limit
authors: Ranjith Nair, Saikat Guha, Si-Hui Tan
comments: Performance comparison for PPM signals added; analysis in Supplementary material clarified; 9 pages + 3 pages supplementary material, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032318 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2048
abstract: Coherent states of light, and methods for distinguishing between them, are central to all applications of laser light. We obtain the ultimate quantum limit on the error probability exponent for discriminating among any M multimode coherent-state waveforms via the quantum Chernoff exponent in M-ary multi-copy state discrimination. A receiver, i.e., a concrete realization of a quantum measurement, called the Sequential Waveform Nulling (SWN) receiver, is proposed for discriminating an arbitrary coherent-state ensemble using only auxiliary coherent-state fields, beam splitters, and non-number-resolving single photon detectors. An explicit error probability analysis of the SWN receiver is used to show that it achieves the quantum limit on the error probability exponent, which is shown to be a factor of four greater than the error probability exponent of an ideal heterodyne-detection receiver on the same ensemble. We generalize the philosophy of the SWN receiver, which is itself adapted from some existing coherent-state receivers, and propose a receiver -- the Sequential Testing (ST) receiver-- for discriminating n copies of M pure quantum states from an arbitrary Hilbert space. The ST receiver is shown to achieve the quantum Chernoff exponent in the limit of a large number of copies, and is remarkable in requiring only local operations and classical communication (LOCC) to do so. In particular, it performs adaptive copy-by-copy binary projective measurements. Apart from being of fundamental interest, these results are relevant to communication, sensing, and imaging systems that use laser light and to photonic implementations of quantum information processing protocols in general.

id: 1212.2055
title: Thermodynamic length for far from equilibrium quantum systems
authors: Sebastian Deffner, Eric Lutz
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87 (2013), 022143
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2055
abstract: We consider a closed quantum system, initially at thermal equilibrium, driven by arbitrary external parameters. We derive a lower bound on the entropy production which we express in terms of the Bures angle between the nonequilibrium and the corresponding equilibrium state of the system. The Bures angle is an angle between mixed quantum states and defines a thermodynamic length valid arbitrarily far from equilibrium. As an illustration, we treat the case of a time-dependent harmonic oscillator for which we obtain analytic expressions for generic driving protocols.

id: 1212.2070
title: Circuit QED lattices: towards quantum simulation with superconducting circuits
authors: Sebastian Schmidt, Jens Koch
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Annalen der Physik, 525, 395-412 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2070
abstract: The Jaynes-Cummings model describes the coupling between photons and a single two-level atom in a simplified representation of light-matter interactions. In circuit QED, this model is implemented by combining microwave resonators and superconducting qubits on a microchip with unprecedented experimental control. Arranging qubits and resonators in the form of a lattice realizes a new kind of Hubbard model, the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model, in which the elementary excitations are polariton quasi-particles. Due to the genuine openness of photonic systems, circuit QED lattices offer the possibility to study the intricate interplay of collective behavior, strong correlations and non-equilibrium physics. Thus, turning circuit QED into an architecture for quantum simulation, i.e., using a well-controlled system to mimic the intricate quantum behavior of another system too daunting for a theorist to tackle head-on, is an exciting idea which has served as theorists' playground for a while and is now also starting to catch on in experiments. This review gives a summary of the most recent theoretical proposals and experimental efforts in this context.

id: 1212.2104
title: Non-adiabatic Non-cyclic Generalization of the Berry Phase for a Spin-1/2 Particle in a Rotating Magnetic Field
authors: Siamak S. Gousheh, Azadeh Mohammadi, Leila Shahkarami
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2104
abstract: In this paper we define a non-dynamical phase for a spin-1/2 particle in a rotating magnetic field in the non-adiabatic non-cyclic case, and this phase can be considered as a generalized Berry phase. We show that this phase reduces to the geometric Berry phase, in the adiabatic limit, up to a factor independent of the parameters of the system. We could add an arbitrary phase to the eigenstates of the Hamiltonian due to the gauge freedom. Then, we fix this arbitrary phase by comparing our Berry phase in the adiabatic limit with the Berry's result for the same system. Also, in the extreme non-adiabatic limit our Berry phase vanishes, modulo $2\pi$, as expected. Although, our Berry phase is in general complex, it becomes real in the expected cases: the adiabatic limit, the extreme non-adiabatic limit, and the points at which the state of the system returns to its initial form, up to a phase factor. Therefore, this phase can be considered as a generalization of the Berry phase. Moreover, we investigate the relation between the value of the generalized Berry phase, the period of the states and the period of the Hamiltonian.

id: 1212.2110
title: Time evolution techniques for detectors in relativistic quantum information
authors: David Edward Bruschi, Antony R. Lee, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, updated to published version . I. Fuentes previously published as I. Fuentes-Guridi and I. Fuentes-Schuller
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 165303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2110
abstract: The techniques employed to solve the interaction of a detector and a quantum field typically require perturbation methods. We introduce mathematical techniques to solve the time evolution of an arbitrary number of detectors interacting with a quantum field. Our techniques apply to harmonic oscillator detectors and can be generalized to treat detectors modeled by quantum fields. Since the interaction Hamiltonian we introduce is quadratic in creation and annihilation operators, we are able to draw from continuous variable techniques commonly employed in quantum optics.

id: 1212.2122
title: CPT-conserved effective mass Hamiltonians through first and higher order charge operator C in a supersymmetric framework
authors: B. Bagchi, A. Banerjee, A. Ganguly
comments: Some minor typographical errors are removed. To appear in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54 (2013) 022101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2122
abstract: This paper examines the features of a generalized position-dependent mass Hamiltonian in a supersymmetric framework in which the constraints of pseudo-Hermiticity and CPT are naturally embedded. Different representations of the charge operator are considered that lead to new mass-deformed superpotentials which are inherently PT-symmetric. The qualitative spectral behavior of the Hamiltonian is studied and several interesting consequences are noted.

id: 1212.2156
title: Influence of the field-detector coupling strength on the dynamical Casimir effect
authors: A. S. M. de Castro, A. Cacheffo, V. V. Dodonov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2156
abstract: We consider the problem of photon creation from vacuum inside an ideal cavity with vibrating walls in the resonance case, taking into account the interaction between the resonant field mode and a detector modeled by a quantum harmonic oscillator. The frequency of wall vibrations is taken to be twice the cavity normal frequency, modified due to the coupling with the detector. The dynamical equations are solved with the aid of the multiple scales method. Analytical expressions are obtained for the photon mean numbers and their variances for the field and detector modes, which are supposed to be initially in the vacuum quantum states. We analyze different regimes of excitation, depending on the ratio of the modulation depth of the time-dependent cavity eigenfrequency to the coupling strength between the cavity mode and detector. We show that statistical properties of the detector quantum state (variances of the photon numbers, photon distribution function, and the degree of quadrature squeezing) can be quite different from that of the field mode. Besides, the mean number of quanta in the detector mode increases with some time delay, compared with the field mode.

id: 1212.2194
title: Entanglement witnesses with variable number of local measurements
authors: Wieslaw Laskowski, Marcin Markiewicz, Tomasz Paterek, Ryszard Weinar
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2194
abstract: We present a class of entanglement identifiers which has the following experimentally friendly feature: once the expectation value of the identifier exceeds some definite limit, we can conclude the state is entangled, even if not all measurements defining the identifier have been performed. These identifiers are in the form of sums of non-negative functions of correlations in a quantum state, mostly squares of correlations, and we illustrate their use and strengths on various examples.

id: 1212.2200
title: Effect of Gravitational Frame Dragging on Orbiting Qubits
authors: Marco Lanzagorta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2200
abstract: In this paper we discuss the effect of gravitational frame dragging on orbiting qubits. In particular, we consider the Kerr spacetime geometry and spin-1/2 qubits moving in an equatorial radial fall with zero angular momentum and equatorial circular orbits. We ignore the ${\cal O}(\hbar)$ order effects due to spin-curvature coupling, which allows us to consider the motion of the spin-1/2 particles as Kerr geometry geodesics. We derive analytical expressions for the infinitesimal Wigner rotation and numerical results for their integration across the length of the particle's trajectory. To this end, we consider the bounds on the finite Wigner rotation imposed by Penrose's cosmic censorship hypothesis.

id: 1212.2214
title: Characterizing Nonclassical Correlations via Local Quantum Uncertainty
authors: Davide Girolami, Tommaso Tufarelli, Gerardo Adesso
comments: Published in PRL, Editors' Suggestion
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 240402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2214
abstract: Quantum mechanics predicts that measurements of incompatible observables carry a minimum uncertainty which is independent of technical deficiencies of the measurement apparatus or incomplete knowledge of the state of the system. Nothing yet seems to prevent a single physical quantity, such as one spin component, from being measured with arbitrary precision. Here we show that an intrinsic quantum uncertainty on a single observable is ineludible in a number of physical situations. When revealed on local observables of a bipartite system, such uncertainty defines an entire class of bona fide measures of nonclassical correlations. For the case of 2 x d systems, we find that a unique measure is defined, which we evaluate in closed form. We then discuss the role that these correlations, which are of the 'discord' type, can play in the context of quantum metrology. We show in particular that the amount of discord present in a bipartite mixed probe state guarantees a minimum precision, as quantified by the quantum Fisher information, in the optimal phase estimation protocol.

id: 1212.2234
title: Photonic Boson Sampling in a Tunable Circuit
authors: Matthew A. Broome, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Saleh Rahimi-Keshari, Justin Dove, Scott Aaronson, Timothy Ralph, Andrew G. White
comments: See also Crespi et al., arXiv:1212.2783; Spring et al., arXiv:1212.2622; and Tillmann et al., arXiv:1212.2240
journal: Science 339, 6121 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2234
abstract: Quantum computers are unnecessary for exponentially-efficient computation or simulation if the Extended Church-Turing thesis---a foundational tenet of computer science---is correct. The thesis would be directly contradicted by a physical device that efficiently performs a task believed to be intractable for classical computers. Such a task is BosonSampling: obtaining a distribution of n bosons scattered by some linear-optical unitary process. Here we test the central premise of BosonSampling, experimentally verifying that the amplitudes of 3-photon scattering processes are given by the permanents of submatrices generated from a unitary describing a 6-mode integrated optical circuit. We find the protocol to be robust, working even with the unavoidable effects of photon loss, non-ideal sources, and imperfect detection. Strong evidence against the Extended Church-Turing thesis will come from scaling to large numbers of photons, which is a much simpler task than building a universal quantum computer.

id: 1212.2240
title: Experimental Boson Sampling
authors: Max Tillmann, Borivoje Daki?, Ren¨¦ Heilmann, Stefan Nolte, Alexander Szameit, Philip Walther
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 7 540 - 544 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2240
abstract: Universal quantum computers promise a dramatic speed-up over classical computers but a full-size realization remains challenging. However, intermediate quantum computational models have been proposed that are not universal, but can solve problems that are strongly believed to be classically hard. Aaronson and Arkhipov have shown that interference of single photons in random optical networks can solve the hard problem of sampling the bosonic output distribution which is directly connected to computing matrix permanents. Remarkably, this computation does not require measurement-based interactions or adaptive feed-forward techniques. Here we demonstrate this model of computation using high--quality laser--written integrated quantum networks that were designed to implement random unitary matrix transformations. We experimentally characterize the integrated devices using an in--situ reconstruction method and observe three-photon interference that leads to the boson-sampling output distribution. Our results set a benchmark for quantum computers, that hold the potential of outperforming conventional ones using only a few dozen photons and linear-optical elements.

id: 1212.2253
title: Incoherent light as a control resource: a route to complete controllability of quantum systems
authors: Alexander Pechen
comments: An updated version of the published Conference Paper for the OSA Optics and Photonics Congress 2012: High Intensity Lasers and High Field Phenomena. Section 4 is added
journal: OSA Technical Digest (Berlin, Germany, March 12, 2012), Optical Society of America, 2012, paper JT2A.23
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2253
abstract: We discuss the use of incoherent light as a resource to control the atomic dynamics and review the proposed in Phys. Rev. A 84, 042106 (2011) method for a controlled transfer between any pure and mixed states of quantum systems using a combination of incoherent and coherent light. Formally, the method provides a constructive proof for an approximate open-loop Markovian state-transfer controllability of quantum system in the space of all density matrices---the strongest possible degree of quantum state control.

id: 1212.2256
title: Could quantum decoherence and measurement be deterministic phenomena?
authors: Jean-Marc Sparenberg, R¨¦da Nour, Aylin Man?o
comments: Project for the proceedings of the Time Machine Factory 2012 conference; comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2256
abstract: The apparent random outcome of a quantum measurement is conjectured to be fundamentally determined by the microscopic state of the macroscopic measurement apparatus. The apparatus state thus plays the role of a hidden variable which, in contrast with variables characterizing the measured microscopic system, is shown to lead to a violation of Bell's inequalities and to agree with standard quantum mechanics. An explicit realization of this interpretation is proposed for a primitive model of measurement apparatus inspired by Mott: in the case of an alpha-particle spherical-wave detection in a cloud chamber, the direction of the observed linear track is conjectured to be determined by the position of the atoms of the gas filling the chamber. Using a stationary-state coupled-channel Born expansion, a reduction of the spherical wave function is shown to be necessary to compensate the flux loss due to scattering on the chamber atoms. Being highly non local, this interpretation of quantum mechanics is finally argued to open the way to faster-than-light information transfer.

id: 1212.2260
title: Boundary Dynamics Driven Entanglement
authors: A. Ibort, G. Marmo, J.M. Perez-Pardo
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phy. A: Math. Theor 47 (2014) 385301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2260
abstract: We will show how it is possible to generate entangled states out of unentangled ones on a bipartite system by means of dynamical boundary conditions. The auxiliary system is defined by a symmetric but not self-adjoint Hamiltonian and the space of self-adjoint extensions of the bipartite system is studied. It is shown that only a small set of them leads to separable dynamics and they are characterized. Various simple examples illustrating this phenomenon are discussed, in particular we will analyze the hybrid system consisting on a planar quantum rotor and a spin system under a wide class of boundary conditions.

id: 1212.2270
title: Genuine multipartite Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering
authors: Q. Y. He, M. D. Reid
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys Rev Lett. 111, 250403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2270
abstract: We develop the concept of genuine N-partite Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) steering. This nonlocality is the natural multipartite extension of the original EPR paradox. Useful properties emerge that are not guaranteed for genuine multipartite entangled states. In particular, there is a close link with the task of one-sided device-independent quantum secret sharing. We derive inequalities to demonstrate multipartite EPR steering for Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) and Gaussian continuous variable (CV) states in loophole-free scenarios.

id: 1212.2279
title: A control protocol of finite dimensional quantum systems
authors: Jianju Tang, H. C. Fu
comments: 7 pages, two figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2279
abstract: An exact and analytic control protocol of two types of finite dimensional quantum systems is proposed. The system can be drive to an arbitrary target state using cosine classical fields in finite cycles. The control parameters which are time periods of interaction between systems and control fields in each cycles are connected with the probability amplitudes of target states via triangular functions and can be determined analytically.

id: 1212.2294
title: Quantum entanglement and teleportation assisted by multiple parties
authors: Takeshi Hayashida
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. Discussions in Sec. III and IV are wrong
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2294
abstract: Quantum teleportation can be performed if and only if a message is combined with a maximally entangled state. Bennett et al. originally claimed this feasibility condition. In this paper, I give a proof of that condition. Moreover, I specify the condition for teleportation when a single-qubit message is combined with a three-qubit state distributed among three parties. I also consider the situation that a single-qubit message is combined with an $n$-qubit state distributed among $n$ parties.

id: 1212.2332
title: Inferences about Interactions: Fermions and the Dirac Equation
authors: Kevin H. Knuth
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures. To be published in the MaxEnt 2012 proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2332
abstract: At a fundamental level every measurement process relies on an interaction where one entity influences another. The boundary of an interaction is given by a pair of events, which can be ordered by virtue of the interaction. This results in a partially ordered set (poset) of events often referred to as a causal set. In this framework, an observer can be represented by a chain of events. Quantification of events and pairs of events, referred to as intervals, can be performed by projecting them onto an observer chain, or even a pair of observer chains, which in specific situations leads to a Minkowski metric replete with Lorentz transformations. We illustrate how this framework of interaction events gives rise to some of the well-known properties of the Fermions, such as Zitterbewegung. We then take this further by making inferences about events, which is performed by employing the process calculus, which coincides with the Feynman path integral formulation of quantum mechanics. We show that in the 1+1 dimensional case this results in the Feynman checkerboard model of the Dirac equation describing a Fermion at rest.

id: 1212.2354
title: Reversibility of a quantum channel: general conditions and their applications to Bosonic linear channels
authors: M.E. Shirokov
comments: 26 pages, journal version, several criteria for reversibility with respect to orthogonal families of mixed states have been added, relations to the zero-error capacities of a channel have been mentioned (Remark 4)
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 112201 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2354
abstract: The method of complementary channel for analysis of reversibility (sufficiency) of a quantum channel with respect to families of input states (pure states for the most part) are considered and applied to Bosonic linear (quasi-free) channels, in particular, to Bosonic Gaussian channels. The obtained reversibility conditions for Bosonic linear channels have clear physical interpretation and their sufficiency is also shown by explicit construction of reversing channels. The method of complementary channel gives possibility to prove necessity of these conditions and to describe all reversed families of pure states in the Schrodinger representation. Some applications in quantum information theory are considered. Conditions for existence of discrete classical-quantum subchannels and of completely depolarizing subchannels of a Bosonic linear channel are obtained in the Appendix.

id: 1212.2379
title: The Physics of Quantum Information: Complementarity, Uncertainty, and Entanglement
authors: Joseph M. Renes
comments: 80 pages, Habilitation thesis, TU Darmstadt, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2379
abstract: The overarching goal of this thesis is to demonstrate that complementarity is at the heart of quantum information theory, that it allows us to make (some) sense of just what information "quantum information" refers to, and that it is useful in understanding and constructing quantum information processing protocols. The detailed research results which form the basis of these claims are to be found in the included papers, and the aim here is to present an overview comprehensible to a more general audience.

id: 1212.2380
title: Proliferation of observables and measurement in quantum-classical hybrids
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: 13 pages; to appear in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: Int.J.Qu.Inf.(IJQI) 10, No. 8 (2012) 1241012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2380
abstract: Following a review of quantum-classical hybrid dynamics, we discuss the ensuing proliferation of observables and relate it to measurements of (would-be) quantum mechanical degrees of freedom performed by (would-be) classical ones (if they were separable). -- Hybrids consist in coupled classical ("CL") and quantum mechanical ("QM") objects. Numerous consistency requirements for their description have been discussed and are fulfilled here. We summarize a representation of quantum mechanics in terms of classical analytical mechanics which is naturally extended to QM-CL hybrids. This framework allows for superposition, separable, and entangled states originating in the QM sector, admits experimenter's "Free Will", and is local and non-signalling. -- Presently, we study the set of hybrid observables, which is larger than the Cartesian product of QM and CL observables of its components; yet it is smaller than a corresponding product of all-classical observables. Thus, quantumness and classicality infect each other.

id: 1212.2382
title: A reversible optical memory for twisted photons
authors: L. Veissier, A. Nicolas, L. Giner, D. Maxein, A.S. Sheremet, E. Giacobino, J. Laurat
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 38, 5 (2013) 712
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2382
abstract: We report on an experiment in which orbital angular momentum of light is mapped at the single-photon level into and out of a cold atomic ensemble. Based on the dynamic electromagnetically-induced transparency protocol, the demonstrated optical memory enables the reversible mapping of Laguerre-gaussian modes with preserved handedness of the helical phase structure. The demonstrated capability opens the possibility to the storage of qubits encoded as superpositions of orbital angular momentum states and to multi-dimensional light-matter interfacing.

id: 1212.2388
title: Communication Complexity Reduction from Globally Uncorrelated States
authors: Marcin Wiesniak
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2388
abstract: Bell inequality violating entangled states are the working horse for many potential quantum information processing applications, including secret sharing, cryptographic key distribution and communication complexity reduction in distributed computing. Here we explicitly demonstrate the power of certain multi-qubit states to improve the efficiency of partners in joint computation of some multi-qubit function, despite the fact that there could be no correlations between all distributed particles. It is important to stress that the class of functions that can be computed more efficiently is widened, as compared with the standard Bell inequalities.

id: 1212.2400
title: Quantum models of classical world
authors: Petr Hajicek
comments: 173 pages, review, no figure. Typos corrected, English improved, according to the published version
journal: Entropy 15 (2013) 789--925
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2400
abstract: This paper is a review of our recent work on three notorious problems of non-relativistic quantum mechanics: realist interpretation, quantum theory of classical properties and the problem of quantum measurement. A considerable progress has been achieved, based on four distinct new ideas. First, objective properties are associated with states rather than with values of observables. Second, all classical properties are selected properties of certain high entropy quantum states of macroscopic systems. Third, registration of a quantum system is strongly disturbed by systems of the same type in the environment. Fourth, detectors must be distinguished from ancillas and the states of registered systems are partially dissipated and lost in the detectors. The paper has two aims: a clear explanation of all new results and a coherent and contradiction-free account of the whole quantum mechanics including all necessary changes of its current textbook version.

id: 1212.2418
title: Quantum simulation of open-system dynamical maps with trapped ions
authors: P. Schindler, M. M¨¹ller, D. Nigg, J. T. Barreiro, E. A. Martinez, M. Hennrich, T. Monz, S. Diehl, P. Zoller, R. Blatt
comments: 8 pages of main text containing 5 color figures, complemented by extensive and self-contained appendices
journal: Nature Physics 9, 361-367 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2418
abstract: Dynamical maps describe general transformations of the state of a physical system, and their iteration can be interpreted as generating a discrete time evolution. Prime examples include classical nonlinear systems undergoing transitions to chaos. Quantum mechanical counterparts show intriguing phenomena such as dynamical localization on the single particle level. Here we extend the concept of dynamical maps to an open-system, many-particle context: We experimentally explore the stroboscopic dynamics of a complex many-body spin model by means of a universal quantum simulator using up to five ions. In particular, we generate long-range phase coherence of spin by an iteration of purely dissipative quantum maps. We also demonstrate the characteristics of competition between combined coherent and dissipative non-equilibrium evolution. This opens the door for studying many-particle non-equilibrium physics and associated dynamical phase transitions with no immediate counterpart in equilibrium condensed matter systems. An error detection and reduction toolbox that facilitates the faithful quantum simulation of larger systems is developed as a first step in this direction.

id: 1212.2427
title: Quantum discord in nuclear magnetic resonance systems at room temperature
authors: J. Maziero, R. Auccaise, L. C. Celeri, D. O. Soares-Pinto, E. R. deAzevedo, T. J. Bonagamba, R. S. Sarthour, I. S. Oliveira, R. M. Serra
comments: 
journal: Braz. J. Phys. 43, 86 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2427
abstract: We review the theoretical and the experimental aspects regarding the quantification and identification of quantum correlations in liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) systems at room temperature. We start by introducing a formal method to obtain the quantum discord and its classical counterpart in systems described by a deviation matrix. Next, we apply such a method to experimentally demonstrate that the peculiar dynamics, with a sudden change behaviour, of quantum discord under decoherence, theoretically predicted only for phase-noise channels, is also present even under the effect of a thermal environment. This result shows that such a phenomena are much stronger than we could think, at principle. Walking through a different path, we discuss an observable witness for the quantumness of correlations in two-qubit systems and present the first experimental implementation of such a quantity in a NMR setup. Such a witness could be very useful in situations were the knowledge of the nature of correlations (in contrast of how much correlations) presented in a given state is enough.

id: 1212.2433
title: Processing Quantum Information in Hybrid Topological Qubit and Superconducting Flux Qubit System
authors: Zhen-Tao Zhang, Yang Yu
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2433
abstract: A composite system of Majorana-hosted semiconductor nanowire and superconducting flux qubit is inves- tigated. It is found that the coupling between these two subsystems can be controlled electrically, supplying a convenient method to implement {\pi}/8 phase gate of a Majorana-based topological qubit. We also present a scheme to transfer information from the flux qubit to the topological qubit using Landau-Zener transition. In addition, a structure named top-flux-flux is proposed to retrieve the information stored in the topological qubit. With the demonstration of the entanglement of two topological qubits, it is very promising to do quantum information process with this hybrid system.

id: 1212.2528
title: Parameter estimation in a memory-assisted noisy quantum interferometry
authors: P. Szankowski, M. Trippenbach, J. Chwedenczuk
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063619 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2528
abstract: We demonstrate that memory in an $N$-qubit system subjected to decoherence, is a potential resource for the slow-down of the entanglement decay. We show that this effect can be used to retain the sub shot-noise sensitivity of the parameter estimation in quantum interferometry. We calculate quantum Fisher information, which sets the ultimate bound for the precision of the estimation. We also derive the sensitivity of such a noisy interferometer, when the phase is either estimated from the measurements of the population imbalance or from the one-body density.

id: 1212.2533
title: Quantum Noise-to-Sensibility Ratio
authors: B. M. Escher
comments: 5 pages (with references), 2 figures. Miscellaneous: Figure 1 was done especially to Bienal Latino-Americana de \'Optica Qu\^antica -- 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2533
abstract: The quantum variables that can be accessed directly by experiments are described by observables. Therefore, physical parameters can only be evaluated indirectly, via estimations based on experimental measurement results. I show that the quantum sensitivity, or the quantum statistical uncertainty in single-parameter estimation, can be defined as the (minimal) ratio between noise and sensibility with a parameter of a well-calibrated observable. Among one of its applications, I show that, measuring a convenient quadrature in squeezed probe oscillators, it is possible to surpass the standard precision limit in phase-shift estimations, even in presence of moderate phase diffusion.

id: 1212.2537
title: Polar codes for private and quantum communication over arbitrary channels
authors: Joseph M. Renes, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 14 pages; subsumes and extends the results of arXiv:1201.2906 and arXiv:1203.5794
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 60, no. 6, pages 3090-3103, June 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2537
abstract: We construct new polar coding schemes for the transmission of quantum or private classical information over arbitrary quantum channels. In the former case, our coding scheme achieves the symmetric coherent information and in the latter the symmetric private information. Both schemes are built from a polar coding construction capable of transmitting classical information over a quantum channel [Wilde and Guha, IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, in press]. Appropriately merging two such classical-quantum schemes, one for transmitting "amplitude" information and the other for transmitting "phase," leads to the new private and quantum coding schemes, similar to the construction for Pauli and erasure channels in [Renes, Dupuis, and Renner, Physical Review Letters 109, 050504 (2012)]. The encoding is entirely similar to the classical case, and thus efficient. The decoding can also be performed by successive cancellation, as in the classical case, but no efficient successive cancellation scheme is yet known for arbitrary quantum channels. An efficient code construction is unfortunately still unknown. Generally, our two coding schemes require entanglement or secret-key assistance, respectively, but we extend two known conditions under which the needed assistance rate vanishes. Finally, although our results are formulated for qubit channels, we show how the scheme can be extended to multiple qubits. This then demonstrates a near-explicit coding method for realizing one of the most striking phenomena in quantum information theory: the superactivation effect, whereby two quantum channels which individually have zero quantum capacity can have a non-zero quantum capacity when used together.

id: 1212.2556
title: Local random quantum circuits are approximate polynomial-designs - numerical results
authors: Piotr ?wikli¨½ski, Micha? Horodecki, Marek Mozrzymas, ?ukasz Pankowski, Micha? Studzi¨½ski
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, v2: reorganized version, new references added, lenghts of circuts added, submitted to JPA
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 305301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2556
abstract: We numerically investigate the statement that local random quantum circuits acting on n qubits composed of polynomially many nearest neighbour two-qubit gates form an approximate unitary poly(n)-design [F.G.S.L. Brandao et al., arXiv:1208.0692]. Using a group theory formalism, spectral gaps that give a ratio of convergence to a given t-design are evaluated for a different number of qubits n (up to 20) and degrees t (t=2,3,4 and 5), improving previously known results for n=2 in the case of t=2 and 3. Their values lead to a conclusion that the previously used lower bound that bounds spectral gaps values may give very little information about the real situation and in most cases, only tells that a gap is closed. We compare our results to the another lower bounding technique, again showing that its results may not be tight.

id: 1212.2558
title: Three qubit Grover's algorithm using superconducting quantum interference devices in cavity QED
authors: Muhammad Waseem, Rizwan Ahmed, Muhammad Irfan, Shahid Qamar
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures. Quantum Information Processing, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2558
abstract: We present a scheme for the implementation of three qubit Grover's algorithm using four-level superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) coupled to a superconducting resonator. The scheme is based on resonant, off-resonant interaction of the cavity field with SQUIDs and the application of classical microwave pulses. We show that adjustment of SQUID level spacing during the gate operations, adiabatic passage, and second-order detuning are not required that leads to faster implementation. We also show that the marked state can be searched with high fidelity even in the presence of level decay and cavity dissipation.

id: 1212.2565
title: Noise-assisted quantum transport and computation
authors: Diego de Falco, Dario Tamascelli
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2565
abstract: The transmission of an excitation along a spin chain can be hindered by the presence of small fixed imperfections that create trapping regions where the excitation may get caught (Anderson localization). A certain degree of noise, ensuing from the interaction with a thermal bath, allows to overcome localization (noise-assisted transport). In this paper we investigate the relation between noise-assisted transport and (quantum) computation. In particular we prove that noise does assist classical computation on a quantum computing device but hinders the possibility of creating entanglement.

id: 1212.2576
title: Numerical analysis of second law of thermodynamics and irreversibility in exemplary quantum systems
authors: G.B. Lesovik, I.A. Sadovskyy
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2576
abstract: We test Boltzmann's H-theorem for several models of particle random walk. We study the influence of interaction between the particle and reservoir/detectors on entropy and find entropy increasing in time for some models and behaving non-monotonically for others. The key mechanism affecting the entropy growth is the quantum entanglement between the system and the reservoir. We discuss the details of the system-reservoir interaction, such as presence of the interference in the system and number of interactions with detector parts, and their impact on the monotonicity of entropy.

id: 1212.2585
title: Unitary decoupling treatment of a quadratic bimodal CQED model
authors: M. Guccione, M. A. Jivulescu, A. Messina
comments: accepted for publication in Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2585
abstract: We consider a two-photon quantum model of radiation-matter interaction between a single two-level atom and a degenerate bimodal high-Q cavity field. Within this tripartite system the explicit construction of two collective radiation modes, one of which freely evolving and the other one quadratically coupled to the matter subsystem, is reported. Meaning and advantages of such a decoupling treatment are carefully discussed.

id: 1212.2601
title: Quantum Measurement and Initial Conditions
authors: Ovidiu Cristinel Stoica
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2601
abstract: If the state of a quantum system is known at a given time, unitary evolution tells us what it will be at future time, but the projection postulate in general predicts a different value. This measurement problem is believed by many physicists to be solved in several approaches which consider that unitary evolution can be reconciled with the wavefunction collapse, for instance by decoherence. In this article, it is shown that for any given measurement settings, only some of all possible initial conditions of the observed system are compatible to those of the measurement apparatus. This means that there is no way unitary collapse can accommodate the previous state of a quantum system, with the outcomes of any possible experimental settings. The only way to accommodate both of them is to allow the initial state of the system to depend on what measurements will undergo in the future. The result is derived mathematically, and can be viewed as a no-go theorem, which severely restricts the hopes that a unitary collapse approach can reconcile any initial condition with any experimental setup. We argue that this remains true in the standard formulations of quantum mechanics, both when we consider that the measurement process takes place unitarily, and when we assume non-unitary collapse. It also remains true for hidden variable theories, both deterministic and stochastic. For deterministic (including unitary) theories the condition of compatibility between the initial conditions of the observed system with those of the measurement apparatus applies indefinitely back in time. Initial conditions seem to be in a precise state which will become an eigenstate of any observable we will decide to measure. This can be understood from the four-dimensional block universe perspective, if we require any solution to be globally self-consistent.

id: 1212.2605
title: Quantum-secured imaging
authors: Mehul Malik, Omar S. Maga?a-Loaiza, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 10 pages (double spaced), 5 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 101, 241103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2605
abstract: We have built an imaging system that uses a photon's position or time-of-flight information to image an object, while using the photon's polarization for security. This ability allows us to obtain an image which is secure against an attack in which the object being imaged intercepts and resends the imaging photons with modified information. Popularly known as "jamming," this type of attack is commonly directed at active imaging systems such as radar. In order to jam our imaging system, the object must disturb the delicate quantum state of the imaging photons, thus introducing statistical errors that reveal its activity.

id: 1212.2622
title: Boson Sampling on a Photonic Chip
authors: Justin B. Spring, Benjamin J. Metcalf, Peter C. Humphreys, W. Steven Kolthammer, Xian-Min Jin, Marco Barbieri, Animesh Datta, Nicholas Thomas-Peter, Nathan K. Langford, Dmytro Kundys, James C. Gates, Brian J. Smith, Peter G.R. Smith, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: Main text: 5 pages, 4 figures. Supp Info: 6 pages
journal: Science 339 798-801 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2622
abstract: While universal quantum computers ideally solve problems such as factoring integers exponentially more efficiently than classical machines, the formidable challenges in building such devices motivate the demonstration of simpler, problem-specific algorithms that still promise a quantum speedup. We construct a quantum boson sampling machine (QBSM) to sample the output distribution resulting from the nonclassical interference of photons in an integrated photonic circuit, a problem thought to be exponentially hard to solve classically. Unlike universal quantum computation, boson sampling merely requires indistinguishable photons, linear state evolution, and detectors. We benchmark our QBSM with three and four photons and analyze sources of sampling inaccuracy. Our studies pave the way to larger devices that could offer the first definitive quantum-enhanced computation.

id: 1212.2648
title: Universality of Computation in Real Quantum Theory
authors: Alessio Belenchia, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 
journal: EPL 104, 20006 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2648
abstract: Recently de La Torre et al. [1] reconstructed Quantum Theory from its local structure on the basis of local discriminability and the existence of a one-parameter group of bipartite transformations containing an entangling gate. This result relies on universality of an entangling gate for quantum computation. Here we prove universality of C-NOT with local gates for Real Quantum Theory (RQT), showing that such universality would not be sufficient for the result, whereas local discriminability and the qubit structure play a crucial role. For reversible computation, generally an extra rebit is needed for RQT. As a byproduct we also provide a short proof of universality of C-NOT for CQT.

id: 1212.2680
title: Matrix Operator Approach to the Quantum Evolution Operator and the Geometric Phase
authors: Sang Pyo Kim, Jewan Kim, Kwang Sup Soh
comments: RevTex 17 pages, no figure; added Refs. [28-46] published after 1992; to be published in J. Korean Phys. Soc
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2680
abstract: The Moody-Shapere-Wilczek's adiabatic effective Hamiltonian and Lagrangian method is developed further into the matrix effective Hamiltonian (MEH) and Lagrangian (MEL) approach to a parameter-dependent quantum system. The matrix-operator approach formulated in the product integral (PI) provides not only a method to find the wave function efficiently in the MEH approach but also higher order corrections to the effective action systematically in the MEL approach, a la the Magnus expansion and the Kubo cumulant expansion. A coupled quantum system of a light particle of a harmonic oscillator is worked out, and as a by-product, a new kind of gauge potential (Berry's connection) is found even for nondegenerate cases (real eigenfunctions). Moreover, in the PI formulation the holonomy of the induced gauge potential is related to Schlesinger's exact formula for the gauge field tensor. A superadiabatic expansion is also constructed, and a generalized Dykhne formula, depending on the contour integrals of the homotopy class of complex degenerate points, is rephrased in the PI formulation.

id: 1212.2683
title: Sequential measurements of non-commuting observables with quantum controlled interactions
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 12 pages, complete re-write of the original 5 page letter, including better explanations of the error statistics and the origin and meaning of imaginary probability in quantum statistics
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 063056 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2683
abstract: The origin of non-classical correlations is difficult to identify since the uncertainty principle requires that information obtained about one observable invariably results in the disturbance of any other non-commuting observable. Here, this problem is addressed by investigating the uncertainty trade-off between measurement errors and disturbance for measurement interactions controlled by the state of a single qubit, where the measurement is described by a quantum coherent superposition of a fully projective measurement and the identity operation. It is shown that the measurement statistics obtained from a quantum controlled measurement of A followed by a projective measurement of B can be explained in terms of a simple combination of resolution and back-action errors acting on an intrinsic joint probability of the non-commuting observables defined by the input state of the system. These intrinsic joint probabilities are consistent with the complex-valued joint probabilities recently observed in weak measurements of quantum systems and provide direct evidence of non-commutativity in the form of imaginary correlations between the non-commuting operators. In quantum controlled measurements, these imaginary correlations can be converted into well-defined contributions to the real measurement statistics, allowing a direct experimental observation of the less intuitive aspects of quantum theory.

id: 1212.2687
title: Coupling mechanism between microscopic two-level system and superconducting qubits
authors: Zhen-Tao Zhang, Yang Yu
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 064301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2687
abstract: We propose a scheme to clarify the coupling nature between superconducting Josephson qubits andmicroscopic two-level systems. Although dominant interest in studying two-level systems was in phase qubits previously, we find that the sensitivity of the generally used spectral method in phase qubits is not sufficient to evaluate the exact form of the coupling. On the contrary, our numerical calculation shows that the coupling strength changes remarkably with the flux bias for a flux qubit, providing a useful tool to investigate the coupling mechanism between the two-level systems and qubits.

id: 1212.2695
title: Detecting modified vacuum fluctuations due to presence of a boundary by means of the geometric phase
authors: Hongwei Yu, Jiawei Hu
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, to appear in PRA. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1203.5869
journal: Physical Review A 86, 064103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2695
abstract: We study the geometric phase acquired by an inertial atom whose trajectories are parallel to a reflecting boundary due its coupling to vacuum fluctuations of electromagnetic fields, by treating the atom as an open quantum system in a bath of the fluctuating vacuum fields, and show that the phase is position dependent as a result of the presence of the boundary which modifies the field quantum fluctuations. Our result therefore suggests a possible way of detecting vacuum fluctuations in experiments involving geometric phase.

id: 1212.2780
title: The operator sum-difference representation for quantum maps: application to the two-qubit amplitude damping channel
authors: S. Omkar, R. Srikanth, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2780
abstract: On account of the Abel-Galois no-go theorem for the algebraic solution to quintic and higher order polynomials, the eigenvalue problem and the associated characteristic equation for a general noise dynamics in dimension $d$ via the Choi-Jamiolkowski approach cannot be solved in general via radicals. We provide a way around this impasse by decomposing the Choi matrix into simpler, not necessarily positive, Hermitian operators that are diagonalizable via radicals, which yield a set of `positive' and `negative' Kraus operators. The price to pay is that the sufficient number of Kraus operators is $d^4$ instead of $d^2$, sufficient in the Kraus representation. We consider various applications of the formalism: the Kraus repesentation of the 2-qubit amplitude damping channel, the noise resulting from a 2-qubit system interacting dissipatively with a vacuum bath; defining the maximally dephasing and purely dephasing components of the channel in the new representation, and studying their entanglement breaking and broadcast properties.

id: 1212.2783
title: Experimental boson sampling in arbitrary integrated photonic circuits
authors: A. Crespi, R. Osellame, R. Ramponi, D. J. Brod, E. F. Galvao, N. Spagnolo, C. Vitelli, E. Maiorino, P. Mataloni, F. Sciarrino
comments: 6 pages + 4 pages (Supplementary Information), 4 figures + 2 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 545 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2783
abstract: Photons naturally solve the BosonSampling problem: sample the outputs of a multi-photon experiment in a linear-optical interferometer. This is strongly believed to be hard to do on a classical computer, and motivates the development of technologies that enable precise control of multi-photon interference in large interferometers. Here we report multi-photon experiments in a 5-mode integrated interferometer. We use novel three-dimensional manufacturing techniques to achieve simultaneous control of 25 independent parameters that describe an arbitrary interferometer. We characterize the chip using one- and two-photon experiments, and confirm the quantum mechanical predictions for three-photon interference. Scaled up versions of this setup are the most promising way to demonstrate the computational capability of quantum systems, and may have applications in high-precision measurements and quantum communication.

id: 1212.2804
title: Room temperature entanglement between distant single spins in diamond
authors: Florian Dolde, Ingmar Jakobi, Boris Naydenov, Nan Zhao, Sebastien Pezzagna, Christina Trautmann, Jan Meijer, Philipp Neumann, Fedor Jelezko, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2804
abstract: Entanglement is the central yet fleeting phenomena of quantum physics. Once being considered a peculiar counter-intuitive property of quantum theory it has developed into the most central element of quantum technology providing speed up to quantum computers, a path towards long distance quantum cryptography and increased sensitivity in quantum metrology. Consequently, there have been a number of experimental demonstration of entanglement between photons, atoms, ions as well as solid state systems like spins or quantum dots, superconducting circuits and macroscopic diamond. Here we experimentally demonstrate entanglement between two engineered single solid state spin quantum bits (qubits) at ambient conditions. Photon emission of defect pairs reveals ground state spin correlation. Entanglement (fidelity = 0.67 \pm 0.04) is proven by quantum state tomography. Moreover, the lifetime of electron spin entanglement is extended to ms by entanglement swapping to nuclear spins, demonstrating nuclear spin entanglement over a length scale of 25 nm. The experiments mark an important step towards a scalable room temperature quantum device being of potential use in quantum information processing as well as metrology.

id: 1212.2811
title: Room temperature Rydberg Single Photon Source
authors: M. M. M¨¹ller, A. K?lle, R. L?w, T. Pfau, T. Calarco, S. Montangero
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2811
abstract: We present an optimal protocol to implement a room temperature Rydberg single photon source within an experimental setup based on micro cells filled with thermal vapor. The optimization of a pulsed four wave mixing scheme allows to double the effective Rydberg blockade radius as compared to a simple Gaussian pulse scheme, releasing some of the constrains on the geometry of the micro cells. The performance of the optimized protocol is improved by about 70% with respect to the standard protocol.

id: 1212.2815
title: Correlations between detectors allow violation of the Heisenberg noise-disturbance principle for position and momentum measurements
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: v2, minor changes. "Resolution" substitutes "sensitivity," according to current usage; v3, changed title and abstract, simplified derivation, corrected an error about the joint measurement, extra appendix to appear as part of a longer version of the paper
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 120403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2815
abstract: Heisenberg formulated a noise-disturbance principle stating that there is a tradeoff between noise and disturbance when a measurement of position and a measurement of momentum are performed sequentially, and another principle imposing a limitation on the product of the uncertainties in a joint measurement of position and momentum. We prove that the former, the Heisenberg sequential noise-disturbance principle, holds when the detectors are assumed to be initially uncorrelated from each other, but that it can be violated for some properly correlated initial preparations of the detectors.

id: 1212.2839
title: Quantum Field as a quantum cellular automaton: the Dirac free evolution in one dimension
authors: Alessandro Bisio, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Alessandro Tosini
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 354, 244 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2839
abstract: We present a quantum cellular automaton model in one space-dimension which has the Dirac equation as emergent. This model, a discrete-time and causal unitary evolution of a lattice of quantum systems, is derived from the assumptions of homogeneity, parity and time-reversal invariance. The comparison between the automaton and the Dirac evolutions is rigorously set as a discrimination problem between unitary channels. We derive an exact lower bound for the probability of error in the discrimination as an explicit function of the mass, the number and the momentum of the particles, and the duration of the evolution. Computing this bound with experimentally achievable values, we see that in that regime the QCA model cannot be discriminated from the usual Dirac evolution. Finally, we show that the evolution of one-particle states with narrow-band in momentum can be effi- ciently simulated by a dispersive differential equation for any regime. This analysis allows for a comparison with the dynamics of wave-packets as it is described by the usual Dirac equation. This paper is a first step in exploring the idea that quantum field theory could be grounded on a more fundamental quantum cellular automaton model and that physical dynamics could emerge from quantum information processing. In this framework, the discretization is a central ingredient and not only a tool for performing non-perturbative calculation as in lattice gauge theory. The automaton model, endowed with a precise notion of local observables and a full probabilistic interpretation, could lead to a coherent unification of an hypothetical discrete Planck scale with the usual Fermi scale of high-energy physics.

id: 1212.2850
title: Dynamic Localization of Interacting Particles in an Anharmonic Potential
authors: Mark Herrera, Thomas M. Antonsen, Edward Ott, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 5 Pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2850
abstract: We investigate the effect of anharmonicity and interactions on the dynamics of an initially Gaussian wavepacket in a weakly anharmonic potential. We note that depending on the strength and sign of interactions and anharmonicity, the quantum state can be either localized or delocalized in the potential. We formulate a classical model of this phenomenon and compare it to quantum simulations done for a self consistent potential given by the Gross-Pitaevskii Equation.

id: 1212.2856
title: Anisotropic rare-earth spin ensemble strongly coupled to a superconducting resonator
authors: S. Probst, H. Rotzinger, S. W¨¹nsch, P. Jung, M. Jerger, M. Siegel, A. V. Ustinov, P. A. Bushev
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 157001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2856
abstract: Interfacing photonic and solid-state qubits within a hybrid quantum architecture offers a promising route towards large scale distributed quantum computing. Ideal candidates for coherent qubit interconversion are optically active spins magnetically coupled to a superconducting resonator. We report on a cavity QED experiment with magnetically anisotropic Er3+:Y2SiO5 crystals and demonstrate strong coupling of rare-earth spins to a lumped element resonator. In addition, the electron spin resonance and relaxation dynamics of the erbium spins are detected via direct microwave absorption, without aid of a cavity.

id: 1212.2896
title: Phase-space behavior and conditional dynamics of an optomechanical system
authors: S. Groeblacher, S. Gigan, M. Paternostro
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, ReVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023813 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2896
abstract: We characterize the local properties of an optomechanical system comprising the movable mirror of a resonator and its intracavity field, mutually coupled via radiation-pressure. Our approach shows that both the state of the mirror and the field can be interpreted as squeezed thermal states whose dynamical properties can be tuned by properly choosing the working parameters. This allows us to design conditional procedures for the amplification of the correlation properties of the optomechanical state. Our study is a step forward in the understanding of the physics that rules a system of current enormous experimental interest.

id: 1212.2909
title: Entanglement generation in a system of two atomic quantum dots coupled to a pool of interacting bosons
authors: Anna Posazhennikova, Reinhard Birmuske, Martin Bruderer, Wolfgang Belzig
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2909
abstract: We discuss entanglement generation in a closed system of one or two atomic quantum dots (qubits) coupled via Raman transitions to a pool of cold interacting bosons. The system exhibits rich entanglement dynamics, which we analyze in detail in an exact quantum mechanical treatment of the problem. The bipartite setup of only one atomic quantum dot coupled to a pool of bosons turns out to be equivalent to two qubits which easily get entangled being initially in a product state. We show that both the number of bosons in the pool and the boson-boson interaction crucially affect the entanglement characteristics of the system. The tripartite system of two atomic quantum dots and a pool of bosons reduces to a qubit-qutrit-qubit realization. We consider entanglement possibilities of the pure system as well as of reduced ones by tracing out one of the constituents, and show how the entanglement can be controlled by varying system parameters. We demonstrate that the qutrit, as expected, plays a leading role in entangling of the two qubits and the maximum entanglement depends in a nontrivial way on the pool characteristics.

id: 1212.2941
title: Squeezing of optomechanical modes in detuned Fabry-Perot interferometer
authors: Andrey A. Rakhubovsky, Sergey P. Vyatchanin
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, 2013, Volume 377, Issue 18, Pages 1317-1322
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2941
abstract: We carry out analysis of optomechanical system formed by moveable mirror of Fabry-Perot cavity pumped by detuned laser. Optical spring arising from detuned pump creates in the system several eigen modes which could be treated as high-Q oscillators. Modulation of laser power results in parametric modulation of oscillators spring constants thus allowing to squeeze noise in quadratures of the modes. Evidence of the squeezing could be found in the light reflected from the cavity.

id: 1212.2982
title: Errors in quantum tomography: diagnosing systematic versus statistical errors
authors: Nathan K. Langford
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2982
abstract: A prime goal of quantum tomography is to provide quantitatively rigorous characterisation of quantum systems, be they states, processes or measurements, particularly for the purposes of trouble-shooting and benchmarking experiments in quantum information science. A range of techniques exist to enable the calculation of errors, such as Monte-Carlo simulations, but their quantitative value is arguably fundamentally flawed without an equally rigorous way of authenticating the quality of a reconstruction to ensure it provides a reasonable representation of the data, given the known noise sources. A key motivation for developing such a tool is to enable experimentalists to rigorously diagnose the presence of technical noise in their tomographic data. In this work, I explore the performance of the chi-squared goodness-of-fit test statistic as a measure of reconstruction quality. I show that its behaviour deviates noticeably from expectations for states lying near the boundaries of physical state space, severely undermining its usefulness as a quantitative tool precisely in the region which is of most interest in quantum information processing tasks. I suggest a simple, heuristic approach to compensate for these effects and present numerical simulations showing that this approach provides substantially improved performance.

id: 1212.2994
title: An 8-bit carry look-ahead adder with 150 ps latency and sub-microwatt power dissipation at 10 GHz
authors: Anna Y. Herr, Quentin P. Herr, Oliver T. Oberg, Ofer Naaman, John X. Przybysz, Pavel Borodulin, Steven B. Shauck
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2994
abstract: Reciprocal Quantum Logic combines the speed and power-efficiency of single-flux quantum superconductor devices with design features that are similar to CMOS. We have demonstrated an 8-bit carry look-ahead adder in the technology using combinational gates with fanout of four and non-local interconnect. Measured power dissipation of the fully active circuit is only 510 nW at 6.2GHz. Latency is only 150 ps at a clock rate of 10GHz.

id: 1212.3012
title: Repulsively induced photon super-bunching in driven resonator arrays
authors: Thomas Grujic, Stephen R. Clark, Dieter Jaksch, Dimitris G. Angelakis
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 87 053846 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3012
abstract: We analyze the non-equilibrium behaviour of driven nonlinear photonic resonator arrays under the selective excitation of specific photonic many-body modes. Targeting the unit-filled ground state, we find a counter-intuitive `super bunching' in the emitted photon statistics in spite of relatively strong onsite repulsive interaction. We consider resonator arrays with Kerr nonlinearities described by the Bose Hubbard model, but also show that an analogous effect is observable in near-future experiments coupling resonators to two-level systems as described by the Jaynes Cummings Hubbard Hamiltonian. For the experimentally accessible case of a pair of coupled resonators forming a photonic molecule, we provide an analytical explanation for the nature of the effect.

id: 1212.3029
title: The essence of microphysical entities
authors: Fang-Yu Hong
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3029
abstract: In spite of its outstanding success, quantum mechanics remains mysterious, many problems such as wave/particle dualism and quantum nonlocality remain open. Because a particle, e.g. a photon, is a quantum of a corresponding quantum field, an arbitrary particle state directly corresponds to a quantum field, which shows the quantum field is nonlocal. A microphysical entity (ME) can be taken as the corresponding quantum field which is in the state of a quantum, where the quantum field is responsible for the ME's wave-like nature and the quantum for the ME's particle-like nature. A quantum state directly corresponds to a quantum field. Base on this simple model, many big problems in quantum physics, such as the wave/particle dualism, the collapse of the quantum state on measurement, the nonlocality in quantum entanglement, quantum teleportation, quantum swapping, and the paradox in the delayed-choice entanglement swapping, can be solved in very simple and natural manners.

id: 1212.3037
title: Casimir interaction between a sphere and a cylinder
authors: L. P. Teo
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures; final version accepted by PRD
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3037
abstract: We study the Casimir interaction between a sphere and a cylinder both subjected to Dirichlet, Neumann or perfectly conducting boundary conditions. Generalizing the operator approach developed by Wittman [IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag. 36, 1078 (1988)], we compute the scalar and vector translation matrices between a sphere and a cylinder, and thus write down explicitly the exact TGTG formula for the Casimir interaction energy. In the scalar case, the formula shows manifestly that the Casimir interaction force is attractive at all separations. Large separation leading term of the Casimir interaction energy is computed directly from the exact formula. It is of order $\sim \hbar c R_1/[L^2\ln(L/R_2)]$, $\sim \hbar c R_1^3R_2^2/L^6$ and $\sim \hbar c R_1^3/[L^4\ln(L/R_2)]$ respectively for Dirichlet, Neumann and perfectly conducting boundary conditions, where $R_1$ and $R_2$ are respectively the radii of the sphere and the cylinder, and $L$ is the distance between their centers.

id: 1212.3059
title: Realizing an $n$-target-qubit controlled phase gate in cavity QED: An approach without classical pulses
authors: Qi-Ping Su, Man Liu, Chui-Ping Yang
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, accepted by Progress of Theoretical and Experimental Physics
journal: Prog. Theor. Exp. Phys. 2013, 023J01
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3059
abstract: We propose a way to realize a multiqubit controlled phase gate with one qubit simultaneously controlling $n$ target qubits using atoms in cavity QED. In this proposal, there is no need of using classical pulses during the entire gate operation. The gate operation time scales as $\sqrt{n}$ only and thus the gate can be performed faster when compared with sending atoms through the cavity one at a time. In addition, only three steps of operations are required for realizing this $n$-target-qubit controlled phase gate. This proposal is quite general, which can be applied to other physical systems such as various superconducting qubits coupled to a resonator, NV centers coupled to a microsphere cavity or quantum dots in cavity QED.

id: 1212.3061
title: Direct Detection of Classically Undetectable Dark Matter through Quantum Decoherence
authors: C. Jess Riedel
comments: AGIS parameters have been updated, increasing the sensitivity by an order of magnitude. Some minor tweaks in response to referees. To appear in PRD
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 116005 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3061
abstract: Although various pieces of indirect evidence about the nature of dark matter have been collected, its direct detection has eluded experimental searches despite extensive effort. If the mass of dark matter is below 1 MeV, it is essentially imperceptible to conventional detection methods because negligible energy is transferred to nuclei during collisions. Here I propose directly detecting dark matter through the quantum decoherence it causes rather than its classical effects such as recoil or ionization. I show that quantum spatial superpositions are sensitive to low-mass dark matter that is inaccessible to classical techniques. This provides new independent motivation for matter interferometry with large masses, especially on spaceborne platforms. The apparent dark matter wind we experience as the Sun travels through the Milky Way ensures interferometers and related devices are directional detectors, and so are able to provide unmistakable evidence that decoherence has galactic origins.

id: 1212.3072
title: Quantum-Like Behavior of Nonlinear Classical Oscillator
authors: Sergey A. Rashkovskiy
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1105.5339
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3072
abstract: We construct the classical dynamical system which has a quantum-like behavior. We have shown that the energy-time uncertainty relation takes place for the system and it has purely classical nature. We investigate the behavior of the system and discuss a "classical" explanation of Franck-Hertz experiments.

id: 1212.3077
title: A third-order exceptional point effect on the dynamics of a single particle in a time-dependent harmonic trap
authors: Raam Uzdin, Emanuele Dalla Torre, Ronnie Kosloff, Nimrod Moiseyev
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022505 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3077
abstract: The time evolution of a single particle in a harmonic trap with time dependent frequency omega(t) is well studied. Nevertheless here we show that, when the harmonic trap is opened (or closed) as function of time while keeping the adiabatic parameter mu = [d omega(t)/dt]/omega(t)^2 fixed, a sharp transition from an oscillatory to a monotonic exponential dynamics occurs at mu = 2. At this transition point the time evolution has a third-order exceptional point (EP) at all instants. This situation, where an EP of a time-dependent Hermitian Hamiltonian is obtained at any given time, is very different from other known cases. Our finding is relevant to the dynamics of a single ion in a magnetic, optical, or rf trap, and of diluted gases of ultracold atoms in optical traps.

id: 1212.3127
title: Efficient Teleportation between Remote Single-Atom Quantum Memories
authors: Christian N?lleke, Andreas Neuzner, Andreas Reiserer, Carolin Hahn, Gerhard Rempe, Stephan Ritter
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 140403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3127
abstract: We demonstrate teleportation of quantum bits between two single atoms in distant laboratories. Using a time-resolved photonic Bell-state measurement, we achieve a teleportation fidelity of (88.0+/-1.5)%, largely determined by our entanglement fidelity. The low photon collection efficiency in free space is overcome by trapping each atom in an optical cavity. The resulting success probability of 0.1% is almost 5 orders of magnitude larger than in previous experiments with remote material qubits. It is mainly limited by photon propagation and detection losses and can be enhanced with a cavity-based deterministic Bell-state measurement.

id: 1212.3211
title: Some features of the Driven Jaynes-Cummings system
authors: B. Tuguldur, Ts. Gantsog
comments: 13 pages, 23 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3211
abstract: We investigate a generalized Jaynes-Cummings model with the external field driving the cavity mode. The numerical results for the dynamics of the atom and the cavity field mode are given. Approximated solutions to the Schrodinger equation are supplied, which allow us to predict the kinematics of the Q function in the complex plane.

id: 1212.3245
title: Wave-packet collapse and the core quantum postulates: Discreteness of quantum jumps from unitarity, repeatability, and actionable information
authors: Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: Changes in the presentation, figure added, etc
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052111 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3245
abstract: An unknown quantum state of a single system cannot be discovered, as a measured system is reprepare: it jumps into an eigenstate of the measured observable. This impossibility of finding the quantum state and other symptoms usually blamed on wave-packet collapse follow (as was recently demonstrated for pure states of measured systems) from unitarity (which does not, however, allow for a literal collapse) and from the repeatability of measurements: Continuous unitary evolution and repeatability suffice to establish the discreteness that underlies quantum jumps. Here we consider mixed states of a macroscopic, open system (such as an apparatus), and we allow its microscopic state to change when, e.g., measured by an observer, provided that its salient features remain unchanged and that observers regard macroscopic state of the pointer as representing the same record. We conclude that repeatably accessible states of macroscopic systems (such as the states of the apparatus pointer) must correspond to orthogonal subspaces in the Hilbert space. The symmetry breaking we exhibit defies the egalitarian quantum superposition principle and unitary symmetry of the Hilbert space, as it singles out preferred subspaces. We conclude that the resulting discreteness (which underlies quantum jumps) emerges from the continuity of the core quantum postulates plus repeatability also in macroscopic and open, but ultimately quantum systems such as measuring devices accessed by observers, where (in contrast with pure states of microsystems) repeatability is paramount.

id: 1212.3275
title: Purified discord and multipartite entanglement
authors: Eric G. Brown, Eric J. Webster, Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Achim Kempf
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Revtex 4.1. V3: Upgraded and updated to published version
journal: Annals of Physics, Volume 337, 153-162 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3275
abstract: We study bipartite quantum discord as a manifestation of a multipartite entanglement structure in the tripartite purified system. In particular, we find that bipartite quantum discord necessarily manifests itself in the presence of both bipartite and tripartite entanglement in the purification. This allows one to understand the asymmetry of quantum discord (between D[A,B] and D[B,A]) in terms of entanglement monogamy. As instructive special cases, we study discord for qubits and Gaussian states in detail. As a result of this we shed new light on a counterintuitive property of Gaussian states: the presence of classical correlations necessarily requires the presence of quantum correlations. Finally, our results also shed new light on a protocol for remote activation of entanglement by a third party.

id: 1212.3286
title: Noisy metrology beyond the standard quantum limit
authors: R. Chaves, J. B. Brask, M. Markiewicz, J. Kolodynski, A. Acin
comments: Erroneous expressions with inconsistent units have been corrected. 5 pages, 3 figures + Appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 120401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3286
abstract: Parameter estimation is of fundamental importance in areas from atomic spectroscopy and atomic clocks to gravitational wave detection. Entangled probes provide a significant precision gain over classical strategies in the absence of noise. However, recent results seem to indicate that any small amount of realistic noise restricts the advantage of quantum strategies to an improvement by at most a multiplicative constant. Here, we identify a relevant scenario in which one can overcome this restriction and attain superclassical precision scaling even in the presence of uncorrelated noise. We show that precision can be significantly enhanced when the noise is concentrated along some spatial direction, while the Hamiltonian governing the evolution which depends on the parameter to be estimated can be engineered to point along a different direction. In the case of perpendicular orientation, we find superclassical scaling and identify a state which achieves the optimum.

id: 1212.3294
title: Fast adiabatic-like spin manipulation in a two-electron double quantum dot
authors: Yue Ban
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3294
abstract: We apply the transitionless quantum driving method to control the electron spin of a two-electron double quantum dot with spin-orbit coupling by time-dependent electric fields. The $x$ and $y$ components of applied electric fields in each dot are designed to achieve fast adiabatic-like passage in the nanosecond timescale. To simplify the setup, we can further transform Hamiltonian by z axis to design an alternative speed-up adiabatic passage, without using the applied electric field in $y$ direction.

id: 1212.3300
title: Quantum information processing using quasiclassical electromagnetic interactions between qubits and electrical resonators
authors: Andrew J. Kerman
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures; significant revision, clarification. Moved material to appendices to streamline and clarify main text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3300
abstract: Electrical resonators are widely used in quantum information processing, by engineering an electromagnetic interaction with qubits based on real or virtual exchange of microwave photons. This interaction relies on strong coupling between the qubits' transition dipole moments and the vacuum fluctuations of the resonator in the same manner as cavity QED, and has consequently come to be called "circuit QED" (cQED). Great strides in the control of quantum information have already been made experimentally using this idea. However, the central role played by photon exchange induced by quantum fluctuations in cQED does result in some characteristic limitations. In this paper, we discuss an alternative method for coupling qubits electromagnetically via a resonator, in which no photons are exchanged, and where the resonator need not have strong quantum fluctuations. Instead, the interaction can be viewed in terms of classical, effective "forces" exerted by the qubits on the resonator, and the resulting resonator dynamics used to produce qubit entanglement are purely classical in nature. We show how this type of interaction is similar to that encountered in the manipulation of atomic ion qubits, and we exploit this analogy to construct two-qubit entangling operations that are largely insensitive to thermal or other noise in the resonator, and to its quality factor. These operations are also extensible to larger numbers of qubits, allowing interactions to be selectively generated among any desired subset of those coupled to a single resonator. Our proposal is potentially applicable to a variety of physical qubit modalities, including superconducting and semiconducting solid-state qubits, trapped molecular ions, and possibly even electron spins in solids.

id: 1212.3325
title: Spin dynamics in tunneling decay of a metastable state
authors: Yue Ban, E. Ya. Sherman
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052130 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3325
abstract: We analyze spin dynamics in the tunneling decay of a metastable localized state in the presence of spin-orbit coupling. We find that the spin polarization at short time scales is affected by the initial state while at long time scales both the probability- and the spin density exhibit diffraction-in-time phenomenon. We find that in addition to the tunneling time the tunneling in general can be characterized by a new parameter, the tunneling length. Although the tunneling length is independent on the spin-orbit coupling, it can be accessed by the spin rotation measurement.

id: 1212.3334
title: Exactly solvable two-level quantum systems and Landau-Zener interferometry
authors: Edwin Barnes
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, v2: PRA version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013818 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3334
abstract: I present a simple algorithm based on a type of partial reverse-engineering that generates an unlimited number of exact analytical solutions to the Schrodinger equation for a general time-dependent two-level Hamiltonian. I demonstrate this method by deriving new exact solutions corresponding to fast control pulses that contain arbitrarily many tunable parameters. It is shown that the formalism is naturally suited to generating analytical control protocols that perform precise non-adiabatic rapid passage and Landau-Zener interferometry near the quantum speed limit. A general, exact formula for Landau-Zener interference patterns is derived.

id: 1212.3378
title: An information-theoretic account of the Wigner-Araki-Yanase theorem
authors: Iman Marvian, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3378
abstract: The Wigner-Araki-Yanase (WAY) theorem can be understood as a result in the resource theory of asymmetry asserting the impossibility of perfectly simulating, via symmetric processing, the measurement of an asymmetric observable unless one has access to a state that is perfectly asymmetric, that is, one whose orbit under the group action is a set of orthogonal states. The simulation problem can be characterized information-theoretically by considering how well both the target observable and the resource state can provide an encoding of an element of the symmetry group. Leveraging this information-theoretic perspective, we show that the WAY theorem is a consequence of the no-programming theorem for projective measurements. The connection allows us to clarify the conceptual content of the theorem and to deduce some interesting generalizations.

id: 1212.3386
title: Correlation dynamics of a two-qubit system in a Bell-diagonal state under non-identical local noises
authors: Bao-Cang Ren, Hai-Rui Wei, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 13, 1175 -- 1189 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3386
abstract: The property of quantum correlation has been studied in recent years, especially for the quantum and classical correlations affected by environment. The dynamics of quantum and classical correlations in two-qubit system under identical local noise channels have been investigated recently. Here we will consider the dynamics of quantum and classical correlations when the local noise channels of two sides are not identical. We investigate the dynamics of quantum and classical correlations with three types of local noise channels in both Markovian and non-Markovian conditions, and show the decay rules of quantum and classical correlations with different types and parameter times of local noise channels.

id: 1212.3396
title: Generating superposition of up-to three photons for continuous variable quantum information processing
authors: Mitsuyoshi Yukawa, Kazunori Miyata, Takahiro Mizuta, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Petr Marek, Radim Filip, Akira Furusawa
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 5, pp. 5529-5535 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3396
abstract: We develop an experimental scheme based on a continuous-wave (cw) laser for generating arbitrary superpositions of photon number states. In this experiment, we successfully generate superposition states of zero to three photons, namely advanced versions of superpositions of two and three coherent states. They are fully compatible with developed quantum teleportation and measurement-based quantum operations with cw lasers. Due to achieved high detection efficiency, we observe, without any loss correction, multiple areas of negativity of Wigner function, which confirm strongly nonclassical nature of the generated states.

id: 1212.3406
title: Wigner function's numerical propagator for open system dynamics
authors: Renan Cabrera, Denys I. Bondar, Herschel A. Rabitz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3406
abstract: We employ a recently developed formalism for describing open quantum systems, to device efficient ab initio numerical techniques for the time propagation of the Wigner function. The propagator's complexity is $O(N\log N)$, where N is the length of the array containing the Wigner function. We illustrate the developed method by propagating single particle systems undergoing decoherence and draw a faithful comparison with the classical evolution governed by both the Fokker-Planck and the Koopman-von Neumann equations. These simulations allow us to witness the emergence of the classical world by observing how the Wigner function converges to the solution of the Fokker-Planck equation with sufficient classical diffusion. As a second example we simulate for first time a numerically challenging quantum system made of two coupled particles and observe the loss of decoherence on one of the particles as a result of continuous measurements performed on the other one, therefore obtaining quantitative predictions for the loss of coherence of both particles as a function of time.

id: 1212.3481
title: Loss of Memory and Convergence of Quantum Markov Processes
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3481
abstract: In a quantum (inhomogeneous) Markov process $\rho_1:=\Gamma_1(\rho)$, $\rho_2:=\Gamma_1(\rho_1)$, ..., where $\Gamma_i$ are CPTP maps and $\rho$ is the initial state, the the state of the system is either oscillatory or convergent to a point or convergent to an oscillatory orbit. Whichever the case it is, "information" about the initial state is always monotone non-increasing and convergent. This fact motivate us to define an equivalence class of families of quantum states, which embodies the bundle of all "information quantities" about the initial state. We show, for any quantum inhomogeneous Markov process over a finite dimensional Hilbert space, the trajectory in the space of the all equivalence classes is "monotone decreasing" and convergent to a point, relative to a reasonablly defined topology. Also, a characterization of weak ergodicity in this picture is given.

id: 1212.3503
title: Uniqueness of Quantum States Compatible with Given Measurement Results
authors: Jianxin Chen, Hillary Dawkins, Zhengfeng Ji, Nathaniel Johnston, David Kribs, Frederic Shultz, Bei Zeng
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012109 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3503
abstract: We discuss the uniqueness of quantum states compatible with given results for measuring a set of observables. For a given pure state, we consider two different types of uniqueness: (1) no other pure state is compatible with the same measurement results and (2) no other state, pure or mixed, is compatible with the same measurement results. For case (1), it is known that for a d-dimensional Hilbert space, there exists a set of 4d-5 observables that uniquely determines any pure state. We show that for case (2), 5d-7 observables suffice to uniquely determine any pure state. Thus there is a gap between the results for (1) and (2), and we give some examples to illustrate this. The case of observables corresponding to reduced density matrices (RDMs) of a multipartite system is also discussed, where we improve known bounds on local dimensions for case (2) in which almost all pure states are uniquely determined by their RDMs. We further discuss circumstances where (1) can imply (2). We use convexity of the numerical range of operators to show that when only two observables are measured, (1) always implies (2). More generally, if there is a compact group of symmetries of the state space which has the span of the observables measured as the set of fixed points, then (1) implies (2). We analyze the possible dimensions for the span of such observables. Our results extend naturally to the case of low rank quantum states.

id: 1212.3512
title: A posterior quantum dynamics for a continuous diffusion observation of a coherent channel
authors: Anita Dabrowska, Przemys?aw Staszewski
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures, the final version is available on the OSA website
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 29 Issue 11, pp. 3072-3077 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3512
abstract: We present the Belavkin filtering equation for the intense balanced heterodyne detection in a unitary model of an indirect observation. The measuring apparatus modelled by a Bose field is initially prepared in a coherent state and the observed process is a diffusion one. We prove that this filtering equation is relaxing: any initial square-integrable function tends asymptotically to a coherent state with an amplitude depending on the coupling constant and the initial state of the apparatus. The time-development of a squeezed coherent state is studied and compared with the previous results obtained for the measuring apparatus prepared initially in the vacuum state.

id: 1212.3562
title: State of the art and prospects for quantum computing
authors: M. I. Dyakonov
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures. Based on a talk at the Future Trends in Microelectronics conference, Corsica 2012. Sections 6-9 partly overlap with arXiv:1210.1782
journal: Future Trends in Microelectronics. Frontiers and Innovations, S. Luryi, J. Xu, and A. Zaslavsky (eds), Wiley (2013), pp. 266-285
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3562
abstract: This is a brief review of the experimental and theoretical quantum computing. The hopes for eventually building a useful quantum computer rely entirely on the so-called "threshold theorem". In turn, this theorem is based on a number of assumptions, treated as axioms, i.e. as being satisfied exactly. Since in reality this is not possible, the prospects of scalable quantum computing will remain uncertain until the required precision, with which these assumptions should be approached, is established. Some related sociological aspects are also discussed. .

id: 1212.3564
title: Gauge subsystems, separability, and robustness in autonomous quantum memories
authors: Gopal Sarma, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 035014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3564
abstract: Quantum error correction provides a fertile context for exploring the interplay of feedback control, microscopic physics and noncommutative probability. In this paper we deepen our understanding of this nexus through high-level analysis of a class of quantum memory models that we have previously proposed, which implement continuous-time versions of well-known stabilizer codes in autonomous nanophotonic circuits that require no external clocking or control. We show that the presence of the gauge subsystem in the nine-qubit Bacon-Shor code allows for an optimized layout of the corresponding nanophotonic circuit that substantially ameliorates the effects of optical propagation losses, argue that code separability allows for simplified restoration feedback protocols, and propose a modified fidelity metric for quantifying the performance of realistic quantum memories. Our treatment of these topics exploits the homogeneous modeling framework of autonomous nanophotonic circuits, but the key ideas translate to the traditional setting of discrete time, measurement-based quantum error correction.

id: 1212.3594
title: Bloch Oscillations of Cold Atoms in a Cavity: Effects of Quantum Noise
authors: B. Prasanna Venkatesh, D. H. J. O'Dell
comments: 25 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013848 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3594
abstract: We extend our theory of Bloch oscillations of cold atoms inside an optical cavity [ Venkatesh et al. Phys. Rev. A 80 063834 (2009)] to include the effects of quantum noise arising from coupling to external modes. The noise acts as a form of quantum measurement backaction by perturbing the coupled dynamics of the atoms and the light. We take it into account by solving the Heisenberg-Langevin equations for linearized fluctuations about the atomic and optical mean fields and examine how this influences the signal-to-noise ratio of a measurement of external forces using this system. In particular, we investigate the effects of changing the number of atoms, the intracavity lattice depth, and the atom-light coupling strength, and show how resonances between the Bloch oscillation dynamics and the quasiparticle spectrum have a strong influence on the signal-to-noise ratio, as well as heating effects. One of the hurdles we overcome in this paper is the proper treatment of fluctuations about time-dependent mean fields in the context of cold-atom cavity QED.

id: 1212.3600
title: Understanding and controlling N-dimensional quantum walks via dispersion relations. Application to the 2D and 3D Grover walks: Diabolical points and more
authors: Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel, Margarida Hinarejos, Eugenio Rold¨¢n, Armando P¨¦rez, Alejandro Romanelli
comments: 18 pages, 13 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 073041
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3600
abstract: The discrete quantum walk in N dimensions is analyzed from the perspective of its dispersion relations. This allows understanding known properties, as well as designing new ones when spatially extended initial conditions are considered. This is done by deriving wave equations in the continuum, which are generically of the Schr\"odinger type, and allow devising interesting behaviors, such as ballistic propagation without deformation, or the generation of almost flat probability distributions, what is corroborated numerically. There are however special points where the energy surfaces display intersections and, near them, the dynamics is entirely different. Applications to the two- and three-dimensional Grover walks are presented.

id: 1212.3606
title: Interpreting Bananaworld: A response to Bub's Quantum Mechanics for Primates
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: 16 pages, no figures, response to 1211.3062v1 [quant-ph]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3606
abstract: The interpretative principle proposed by Bub in 1211.3062v1 [quant-ph] is justified only for all practical purposes (Bell's "FAPP trap"). An alternative interpretative principle is proposed. It brings to light those features of the quantum world because of which the fundamental theoretical framework of physics is a "mere" probability calculus, and it amply justifies Bohr's insistence that quantum-mechanical observables cannot be defined without reference to the experimental conditions in which they are measured. It implies that the spatial distinctions we make cannot be intrinsic to space, that regions "of space" must be realized by macroscopic objects, that the spatiotemporal differentiation of the physical world is incomplete, that the positions of macroscopic objects (suitably defined) are definite in a nonclassical sense, and that unconditional factuality can be consistently attributed to them.

id: 1212.3623
title: Circuit QED bright source for chiral entangled light based on dissipation
authors: Fernando Quijandr¨ªa, Diego Porras, Juan Jos¨¦ Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, David Zueco
comments: comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 073602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3623
abstract: Based on a circuit QED qubit-cavity array a source of two-mode entangled microwave radiation is designed. Our scheme is rooted in the combination of external driving, collective phenomena and dissipation. On top of that the reflexion symmetry is broken via external driving permitting the appearance of chiral emission. Our findings go beyond the applications and are relevant for fundamental physics, since we show how to implement quantum lattice models exhibiting criticality driven by dissipation.

id: 1212.3639
title: Quantum law of rare events for systems with Bose-Einstein statistics
authors: Dmitri Sokolovski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3639
abstract: In classical physics the joint probability of a number of individually rare independent events is given by the Poisson distribution. It describes, for example, unidirectional transfer of population between the densely and sparsely populated states of a classical two-state system. We derive a quantum version of the law for a large number of non-interacting systems (particles) obeying Bose-Einstein statistics. The classical low is significantly modified by quantum interference, which allows, among other effects, for the counter flow of particles back into the densely populated state. Suggested observation of this classically forbidden counter flow effect can be achieved with modern laser-based techniques used for manipulating and trapping of cold atoms.

id: 1212.3655
title: State tomography via weak measurements
authors: Shengjun Wu
comments: 7 pages, 2 figure
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 1193 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3655
abstract: Recent work has revealed that the wave function of a pure state can be measured directly and that complementary knowledge of a quantum system can be obtained simultaneously by weak measurements. However, the original scheme applies only to pure states, and it is not efficient because most of the data are discarded by post-selection. Here, we propose tomography schemes for pure states and for mixed states via weak measurements, and our schemes are more efficient because we do not discard any data. Furthermore, we demonstrate that any matrix element of a general state can be directly read from an appropriate weak measurement. The density matrix (with all of its elements) represents all that is directly accessible from a general measurement.

id: 1212.3707
title: Minimum Energy-Surface Required by Quantum Memory Devices
authors: Wim van Dam, Hieu D. Nguyen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3707
abstract: We address the question what physical resources are required and sufficient to store classical information. While there is no lower bound on the required energy or space to store information, we find that there is a nonzero lower bound for the product (P = <E> <r^2>) of these two resources. Specifically, we prove that any physical system of mass m and d degrees of freedom that stores S bits of information will have lower bound on the product P that is proportional to d^2/m (exp(S/d)-1)^2. This result is obtained in a non-relativistic, quantum mechanical setting and it is independent from earlier thermodynamical results such as the Bekenstein bound on the entropy of black holes.

id: 1212.3710
title: Displacing entanglement back and forth between the micro and macro domains
authors: Natalia Bruno, Anthony Martin, Pavel Sekatski, Nicolas Sangouard, Rob Thew, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Slightly different from the published version. See arXiv:1212.3710 for the initial theoretical proposal. See also arXiv:1306.0843 for the corresponding measure of macroscopicity
journal: Nature Physics 9, 545 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3710
abstract: Quantum theory is often presented as the theory describing the microscopic world, and admittedly, it has done this extremely well for decades. Nonetheless, the question of whether it applies at all scales and in particular at human scales remains open, despite considerable experimental effort. Here, we report on the displacement of quantum entanglement into the domain where it involves two macroscopically distinct states, i.e. two states characterised by a large enough number of photons to be seen, at least in principle, with our eyes and that could be distinguished using mere linear - coarse-grained - detectors with a high probability. Specifically, we start by the generation of entanglement between two spatially separated optical modes at the single photon level and subsequently displace one of these modes up to almost a thousand photons. To reliably check whether entanglement is preserved, the mode is re-displaced back to the single photon level and a well established entanglement measure, based on single photon detection, is performed. The ability to displace an entangled state from the micro to the macro domain and back again provides a fascinating tool to probe fundamental questions about quantum theory and holds potential for more applied problems such as quantum sensing.

id: 1212.3713
title: Observation of micro-macro entanglement of light
authors: A. I. Lvovsky, R. Ghobadi, A. Chandra, A. S. Prasad, C. Simon
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 9, 541-544 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3713
abstract: Schroedinger's famous thought experiment involves a (macroscopic) cat whose quantum state becomes entangled with that of a (microscopic) decaying nucleus. The creation of such micro-macro entanglement is currently being pursued in several fields, including atomic ensembles, superconducting circuits, electro-mechanical and opto-mechanical systems. For purely optical systems, there have been several proposals to create micro-macro entanglement by greatly amplifying one half of an initial microscopic entangled state of light, but experimental attempts have so far been inconclusive. Here we experimentally demonstrate micro-macro entanglement of light. The macro system involves over a hundred million photons, while the micro system is at the single-photon level. We show that microscopic differences (in field quadrature measurements) on one side are correlated with macroscopic differences (in the photon number variance) on the other side. On the other hand, we demonstrate entanglement by bringing the macroscopic state back to the single-photon level and performing full quantum state tomography of the final state. Our results show that it is possible to create and demonstrate micro-macro entanglement for unexpectedly large photon numbers. Schroedinger's thought experiment was originally intended to convey the absurdity of applying quantum mechanics to macroscopic objects. Today many quantum physicists believe that quantum principles in fact apply on all scales. By combining the present approach with other (e.g. mechanical) systems, or by applying its basic ideas in different contexts, it may be possible to bring quantum effects ever closer to our everyday experience.

id: 1212.3739
title: A robust Bayesian formulation of the optimal phase measurement problem
authors: K.R.W. Jones
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Applications (stat.AP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3739
abstract: Optical phase measurement is a simple example of a quantum--limited measurement problem with important applications in metrology such as gravitational wave detection. The formulation of optimal strategies for such measurements is an important test-bed for the development of robust statistical methods for instrument evaluation. However, the class of possible distributions exhibits extreme pathologies not commonly encountered in conventional statistical analysis. To overcome these difficulties we reformulate the basic variational problem of optimal phase measurement within a Bayesian paradigm and employ the Shannon information as a robust figure of merit. Single-mode performance bounds are discussed, and we invoke a general theorem that reduces the problem of finding the multi-mode performance bounds to the bounding of a single integral, without need of the central limit theorem.

id: 1212.3752
title: Stimulated Emission of Radiation in a Single Mode for both Resonance and Non-resonance for Various Initial Photon Distributions
authors: M. T. Tavis, F. W. Cummings
comments: 26 pages, 15 tables many of which contain multiple figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3752
abstract: This paper reexamines the results of Cummings in which the quantum mechanical two-level-system (TLS) interacts with the electromagnetic field with various initial distributions and extends that work for both resonant and non-resonant to large values of time. The results presented here include the initial pure coherent state, the field whose initial density matrix is the Gaussian superposition of coherent states (blackbody radiation) and density matrices of the field represented by various combinations of mixed coherent and thermal states with and without squeezing This paper provides, in addition to the matrix elements to the various states, both the algebraic and graphical representation for the first order correlation function G^(1)=<E^-E^+> for resonance and non-resonance. It is found that in all case, the application of non-resonance leads to oscillations in the first order correlation which was thought only to apply for the coherent state even for the case of the pure thermal state.

id: 1212.3774
title: Cavity enhanced storage - preparing for high efficiency quantum memories
authors: Mahmood Sabooni, Samuel Tornibue Kometa, Axel Thuresson, Stefan Kr?ll, Lars Rippe
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3774
abstract: Cavity assisted quantum memory storage has been proposed [PRA 82, 022310 (2010), PRA 82, 022311 (2010)] for creating efficient (close to unity) quantum memories using weakly absorbing materials. Using this approach we experimentally demonstrate a significant (about 20-fold) enhancement in quantum memory efficiency compared to the no cavity case. A strong dispersion originating from absorption engineering inside the cavity was observed, which directly affect the cavity line-width. A more than 3 orders of magnitude reduction of cavity mode spacing and cavity line-width from GHz to MHz was observed. We are not aware of any previous observation of several orders of magnitudes cavity mode spacing and cavity line-width reduction due to slow light effects.

id: 1212.3814
title: EIT-control of single-atom motion in an optical cavity
authors: Tobias Kampschulte, Wolfgang Alt, Sebastian Manz, Miguel Martinez-Dorantes, Ren¨¦ Reimann, Seokchan Yoon, Dieter Meschede, Marc Bienert, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89 (2014) 033404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3814
abstract: We demonstrate cooling of the motion of a single atom confined by a dipole trap inside a high-finesse optical resonator. Cooling of the vibrational motion results from EIT-like interference in an atomic \Lambda-type configuration, where one transition is strongly coupled to the cavity mode and the other is driven by an external control laser. Good qualitative agreement with the theoretical predictions is found for the explored parameter ranges. The role of the cavity in the cooling dynamics is confirmed by means of a direct comparison with EIT-cooling performed in the dipole trap in free space. These results set the basis to the realization of an efficient photonic interface based on single atoms.

id: 1212.3833
title: Variational quantum field states with symmetry: The continuum limit of a projected entangled pair state
authors: David Jennings, Jutho Haegeman, Tobias J. Osborne, Frank Verstraete
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3833
abstract: We obtain a well-behaved continuum limit of projected entangled pair states (PEPS) that provides an abstract class of quantum field states with natural symmetries. Making use of the recently introduced path integral representation of one-dimensional continuous matrix product states (cMPS) for quantum fields, we demonstrate how symmetries of the physical field state are encoded within the dynamics of an auxiliary field system of one dimension less. In particular, the imposition of euclidean symmetries on the physical system requires that the auxiliary system involved in the class' definition must be Lorentz invariant. The physical field states automatically inherit entropy area laws from the PEPS class, and are fully described by the dissipative dynamics of the lower dimensional auxiliary field system.

id: 1212.3839
title: Numerical method for finding decoherence-free subspaces and its applications
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Mark Byrd, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 7 pages, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012338 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3839
abstract: In this work, inspired by the study of semidefinite programming for block-diagonalizing matrix *-algebras, we propose an algorithm that can find the algebraic structure of decoherence-free subspaces (DFS's) for a given noisy quantum channel. We prove that this algorithm will work for all cases with probability one, and it is more efficient than the algorithm proposed by Holbrook, Kribs, and Laflamme [Quant. Inf. Proc. 80, 381 (2003)]. In fact, our results reveal that this previous algorithm only works for special cases. As an application, we discuss how this method can be applied to increase the efficiency of an optimization procedure for finding an approximate DFS.

id: 1212.3854
title: Realization of quantum gates with multiple control qubits or multiple target qubits in a cavity
authors: Muhammad Waseem, Muhammad Irfan, Shahid Qamar
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures, Quantum Inf Process, 2015
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3854
abstract: In this paper, we propose a scheme to realize three-qubit controlled phase gate and multiqubit controlled-NOT gate of one qubit simultaneously controlling n target qubit with four level quantum system in a cavity. Adjustment of level spacing during the gates implementation is not required. Implementation time for multiqubit controlled NOT gate is independent of number of qubit. Three-qubit phase gate is generalized to n-qubit phase gate with multiple control qubit and the number of steps (complexity) reduces linearly as compare to conventional gate decomposition method. Our scheme can be applied to various types of physical systems such as superconducting qubits coupled to resonator and trapped atoms in a cavity. Experimental possibility of our approach is also presented.

id: 1212.3865
title: Decoherence and maximal violations of the Leggett-Garg inequality
authors: Clive Emary
comments: 7 pages; 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032106 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3865
abstract: We consider maximal violations of the Leggett-Garg inequality, obtained by maximising over all possible measurement operators, in relation to non-unitary aspects of the system dynamics. We model the action of an environment on a qubit in terms of generic quantum channels and relate the maximal value of the Leggett-Garg correlator to the channel parameters. We focus on unital channels, and hence on decoherence. In certain important cases, exact relations between the channel parameters and maximal violations can be found. Moreover, we demonstrate the existence of distinct thresholds for the channel parameters, below which no violation of the Leggett-Garg inequality can occur.

id: 1212.3880
title: Classical Information-Theoretical View of Physical Measurements and Generalized Uncertainty Relations
authors: Yoshimasa Kurihara
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, This is a combined paper of arXiv1205.4595 and arXiv1206.0421, those are withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3880
abstract: General characterizations of physical measurements are discussed within the framework of the classical information theory. The uncertainty relation for simultaneous measurements of two physical observables is defined in this framework for generalized dynamic systems governed by a Sturm--Liouville type of equation of motion. In the first step, the reduction of Kennard--Robertson type uncertainties due to boundary conditions with a mean-square error is discussed quantitatively with reference to the information entropy. Several concrete examples of generalized uncertainty relations are given. Then, by considering disturbance effects, a universally valid uncertainty relation is investigated for the generalized equation of motion with a certain boundary condition. Necessary conditions for violation (reduction) of the Heisenberg-type uncertainty relation are discussed in detail. The reduction of the generalized uncertainty relation due to the boundary condition is then tested experimentally by re-analyzing data for measured electron densities in a hydrogen molecule encapsulated in a fullerene C60 cage.

id: 1212.3927
title: Many Bosons in a Narrow Magnetic Feshbach Resonance
authors: Ludovic Pricoupenko
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 110 (2013) 180402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3927
abstract: The many-boson problem in presence of an asymptotically narrow Feshbach resonance is considered. The low energy properties are investigated using a two-channel Hamiltonian. The energy spectrum of this model is shown to be bounded from below in the limit of zero range interaction. This implies the promising possibility of achieving a strongly interacting bosonic phase in a dilute regime where the details of the actual interatomic forces are irrelevant. The integral relation between the energy and the one-body momentum distribution is derived.

id: 1212.3965
title: Semi-loss-tolerant strong quantum coin-flipping protocol using quantum non-demolition measurement
authors: Qian Yang, Jia-Jun Ma, Fen-Zhuo Guo, Qiao-Yan Wen
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3965
abstract: In this paper, we present a semi-loss-tolerant strong quantum coin-flipping (QCF) protocol with the best bias of 0.3536. Our manuscript applies Quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement to quantum coin-flipping protocol. Furthermore, a single photon as a single qubit is used to avoid the difficult implementation of EPR resources. We also analyze the security of our protocol obtaining the best result among all coin-flipping protocols considering loss. A semi-loss-tolerant Quantum Dice Rolling (QDR) protocol is first proposed, and the security of corresponding three-party QDR is analyzed to better demonstrate the security of our QCF.

id: 1212.4000
title: Stabilizer quantum error correction toolbox for superconducting qubits
authors: Simon E. Nigg, Steven M. Girvin
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures, includes supplemental material. Revised manuscript
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 243604 (2013) [5 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4000
abstract: We present a general protocol for stabilizer measurements and pumping in a system of N superconducting qubits. We assume always-on, equal dispersive couplings to a single mode of a high-Q microwave resonator in the ultra-strong dispersive limit where the dispersive shifts largely exceed the spectral linewidth. In this limit, we show how to map the two eigenvalues of an arbitrary weight M < N Pauli operator, onto two quasi-orthogonal coherent states of the cavity. Together with a fast cavity readout, this enables the efficient measurement of stabilizer operators.

id: 1212.4008
title: Hanbury Brown--Twiss interferometry with electrons: Coulomb vs. quantum statistics
authors: Gordon Baym, Kan Shen
comments: Contribution to the Memorial Publication in honor of Akira Tonomura, [eds. K. Fujikawa and Y. A. Ono] to be published by World Scientific Publishing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4008
abstract: A longstanding goal of Akira Tonomura was to observe Hanbury Brown--Twiss anti-correlations between electrons in a field-emission free electron beam. The experimental results were reported in his 2011 paper with Tetsuji Kodama and Nobuyuki Osakabe [Phys. Rev. A 83, 063616 (2011)]. An open issue in such a measurement is whether the observed anti-correlations arise from quantum statistics, or are simply produced by Coulomb repulsion between electrons. In this paper we describe a simple classical model of Coulomb effects to estimate their effects in electron beam interferometry experiments, and conclude that the experiment did indeed observe quantum correlations in the electron arrrival times.

id: 1212.4071
title: Dissipative dynamics of quantum correlations in the strong-coupling regime
authors: Ferdi Altintas, Resul Eryigit
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. Close to published version
journal: Physical Review A 87, 022124 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4071
abstract: The dynamics of entanglement and quantum discord between two identical qubits strongly interacting with a common single mode leaky cavity field have been investigated beyond the rotating wave approximation (RWA) by using recently derived Lindblad type quantum optical master equation [F. Beaudoin, J.M. Gambetta, A. Blais, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 84}, 043832 (2011)] that can describe the losses of the cavity field in a strong atom-field coupling regime. Contrary to previous investigations of the same model in the dissipative regime by using the standard Lindblad quantum optical master equation in a strong-coupling regime, the atom-field steady states are found to be cavity decay rate independent and have a very simple structure determined solely by the overlap of initial atomic state with the subradiant state which is valid for all coupling regimes. Non-RWA dynamics are found to have remarkable effects on the steady state quantum discord and entanglement that cannot be achieved under RWA conditions, for instance, they can induce steady state entanglement even for the initial states that have no overlap with the subradiant state. Moreover, the non-RWA dynamics are found to reverse the initial state dependence of steady state entanglement and quantum discord contrary to the RWA case.

id: 1212.4084
title: A Combinatorial Approach to Nonlocality and Contextuality
authors: Antonio Ac¨ªn, Tobias Fritz, Anthony Leverrier, Ana Bel¨¦n Sainz
comments: minor revision, same results as in v2, to appear in Comm. Math. Phys
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 334(2), 533-628 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4084
abstract: So far, most of the literature on (quantum) contextuality and the Kochen-Specker theorem seems either to concern particular examples of contextuality, or be considered as quantum logic. Here, we develop a general formalism for contextuality scenarios based on the combinatorics of hypergraphs which significantly refines a similar recent approach by Cabello, Severini and Winter (CSW). In contrast to CSW, we explicitly include the normalization of probabilities, which gives us a much finer control over the various sets of probabilistic models like classical, quantum and generalized probabilistic. In particular, our framework specializes to (quantum) nonlocality in the case of Bell scenarios, which arise very naturally from a certain product of contextuality scenarios due to Foulis and Randall. In the spirit of CSW, we find close relationships to several graph invariants. The recently proposed Local Orthogonality principle turns out to be a special case of a general principle for contextuality scenarios related to the Shannon capacity of graphs. Our results imply that it is strictly dominated by a low level of the Navascu\'es-Pironio-Ac\'in hierarchy of semidefinite programs, which we also apply to contextuality scenarios. We derive a wealth of results in our framework, many of these relating to quantum and supraquantum contextuality and nonlocality, and state numerous open problems. For example, we show that the set of quantum models on a contextuality scenario can in general not be characterized in terms of a graph invariant. In terms of graph theory, our main result is this: there exist two graphs $G_1$ and $G_2$ with the properties \begin{align*} \alpha(G_1) &= \Theta(G_1), & \alpha(G_2) &= \vartheta(G_2), \\[6pt] \Theta(G_1\boxtimes G_2) & > \Theta(G_1)\cdot \Theta(G_2),& \Theta(G_1 + G_2) & > \Theta(G_1) + \Theta(G_2). \end{align*}

id: 1212.4130
title: Maximum tri-partite Hardy's nonlocality respecting all bi-partite principles
authors: Subhadipa Das, Manik Banik, M. D. Rajjak Gazi, Ashutosh Rai, Samir Kunkri, Ramij Rahaman
comments: 5 pages, double column, comments are welcome
journal: Quantum Inf Process 12, 3033-3041 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4130
abstract: The set of multiparty correlations that respect all bi-partite principles has been conjectured to be same as the set of time-ordered-bi-local correlations. Based on this conjuncture we find the maximum value of success probability of tri-partite Hardy's correlation respecting all bi-partite physical principles. Unlike in quantum mechanics, the no-signaling principle does not reveal any gap in Hardy's maximum success probability for bi-partite and tri-partite system. Information causality principle is shown to be successful in qualitatively revealing this quantum feature and this result is independent of the conjecture mentioned above.

id: 1212.4217
title: Entanglement Sharing Protocol via Quantum Error Correcting Codes
authors: Ran Hee Choi, Ben Fortescue, Gilad Gour, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87, 032319 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4217
abstract: We introduce a new multiparty cryptographic protocol, which we call `entanglement sharing schemes', wherein a dealer retains half of a maximally-entangled bipartite state and encodes the other half into a multipartite state that is distributed among multiple players. In a close analogue to quantum secret sharing, some subsets of players can recover maximal entanglement with the dealer whereas other subsets can recover no entanglement (though they may retain classical correlations with the dealer). We find a lower bound on the share size for such schemes and construct two non-trivial examples based on Shor's $[[9,1,3]]$ and the $[[4,2,2]]$ stabilizer code; we further demonstrate how other examples may be obtained from quantum error correcting codes through classical encryption. Finally, we demonstrate that entanglement sharing schemes can be applied to characterize leaked information in quantum ramp secret sharing.

id: 1212.4221
title: Photon-induced tunneling in optomechanical systems
authors: Xun-Wei Xu, Yuan-Jie Li, Yu-xi Liu
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 025803 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4221
abstract: In contrast to recent studies [Rabl, Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 063601 (2011); Nunnenkamp et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 063602 (2011)] on photon blockade that prevents subsequent photons from resonantly entering the cavity in optomechanical systems, we study the photon-induced tunneling that increases the probability of admitting subsequent photons in those systems. In particular, we analytically and numerically show how twoor three-photon tunneling can occur by avoiding single-photon blockade. Our study provides another way on photon control using a single mechanical resonator in optomechanical systems.

id: 1212.4242
title: Uncertainty and certainty relations for complementary qubit observables in terms of Tsallis' entropies
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 11 pages, one figure. Typos are fixed. Grammatical improvements are made. The bibliography is updated. To appear in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 12, 2947-2963 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4242
abstract: Uncertainty relations for more than two observables have found use in quantum information, though commonly known relations pertain to a pair of observables. We present novel uncertainty and certainty relations of state-independent form for the three Pauli observables with use of the Tsallis $\alpha$-entropies. For all real $\alpha\in(0;1]$ and integer $\alpha\geq2$, lower bounds on the sum of three $\alpha$-entropies are obtained. These bounds are tight in the sense that they are always reached with certain pure states. The necessary and sufficient condition for equality is that the qubit state is an eigenstate of one of the Pauli observables. Using concavity with respect to the parameter $\alpha$, we derive approximate lower bounds for non-integer $\alpha\in(1;+\infty)$. In the case of pure states, the developed method also allows to obtain upper bounds on the entropic sum for real $\alpha\in(0;1]$ and integer $\alpha\geq2$. For applied purposes, entropic bounds are often used with averaging over the individual entropies. Combining the obtained bounds leads to a band, in which the rescaled average $\alpha$-entropy ranges in the pure-state case. A width of this band is essentially dependent on $\alpha$. It can be interpreted as an evidence for sensitivity in quantifying the complementarity.

id: 1212.4255
title: Higher order wave-particle duality
authors: Jie-Hui Huang, Sabine W?lk, Shi-Yao Zhu, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4255
abstract: The complementarity of single-photon's particle-like and wave-like behaviors can be described by the inequality $D^2+V^2 \leq 1$, with $D$ being the path distinguishability and $V$ being the fringe visibility. In this paper, we generalize this duality relation to multi-photon case, where two new concepts, higher order distinguishability and higher order fringe visibility, are introduced to quantify the higher order particle-like and wave-like behaviors of multi-photons.

id: 1212.4262
title: Measuring bipartite quantum correlations of an unknown state
authors: I. A. Silva, D. Girolami, R. Auccaise, R. S. Sarthour, I. S. Oliveira, T. J. Bonagamba, E. R. deAzevedo, D. O. Soares-Pinto, G. Adesso
comments: 5+2 pages, 3+1 figures. Published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 140501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4262
abstract: We report the experimental measurement of bipartite quantum correlations of an unknown two-qubit state. Using a liquid state Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) setup and employing geometric discord, we evaluate the quantum correlations of a state without resorting to prior knowledge of its density matrix. The method is applicable to any (2 x d) system and provides, in terms of number of measurements required, an advantage over full state tomography scaling with the dimension d of the unmeasured subsystem. The negativity of quantumness is measured as well for reference. We also observe the phenomenon of sudden transition of quantum correlations when local phase and amplitude damping channels are applied to the state.

id: 1212.4339
title: Atoms and Photons - Their Interaction Dynamics
authors: Max F. Frenzel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4339
abstract: The Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM) describes the interaction of a two-level atom with a single quantised field mode in an optical cavity. In this BSc project we derive the basic Rabi model Hamiltonian and show how it leads to the JCM Hamiltonian. The results are then used to analyse the general time evolution of a bipartite atom-field system and its properties, such as entanglement. We extend a scheme developed by Browne and Plenio [D. Browne and M. B. Plenio, Physical Review A, vol. 67, no. 1, Jan. 2003.] to entangle two cavities that interact with an atom. Our scheme allows to produce states that are arbitrarily close to a Bell state with a success probability greater than 0.75, whereas the success rate of the original method tends to 0 for perfect fidelity. Further, we extend both schemes by allowing the atom or the cavity to be in a thermal state and find that the fidelity of the produced states is reduced with increasing temperature. Finally, we apply our scheme to quantum teleportation, where we find that the fidelity of the teleported state compared to the original state also decreases as the temperature is increased.

id: 1212.4344
title: Bell inequality violations under reasonable and under weak hypotheses
authors: Edson de Faria, Charles Tresser
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4344
abstract: Given a sequence of pairs of spin-one half particles in the singlet state, assume that Alice measures the normalized projections along some vector of the spins of one vector per pair along that vector while Bob measures the normalized projections along some vector of the spins of the other member of each pair. Then Quantum Mechanics, or QM, lets one evaluate the correlation of the projections along these two vectors as minus the cosinus of the angle between said vectors; we assume that all vectors are chosen in a fixed plane. Assuming Classical Microscopic Realism, or CMR, there exist also normalized projection pairs of the spins of the pairs of particles along some other pair of vectors. Assuming QM and MR, we also have that the correlations of the projections along the other vectors as minus the cosinus of the angle between the extra vectors. Assuming Locality,i.e., the impossibility of any effect of an event on another event when said events are spatially separated, beside QM and MR, the theory of Bell lets one deduce various violations of some inequalities at some choices of quadruplets of the vectors that have been chosen. Our main result is the existence of quadruplets where at least one of the said inequalities is violated if one only assumes QM, MR and some very mild further hypotheses. These weak hypotheses only concern the behavior of correlations that we use near special quadruplets. We thus get versions of Bell's theorem that are strictly stronger than the original one and in particular do not assume Locality.

id: 1212.4355
title: Minimal covariant observables identifying all pure states
authors: Claudio Carmeli, Teiko Heinosaari, Alessandro Toigo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377 (2013) 1407--1415
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4355
abstract: It has been recently shown that an observable that identifies all pure states of a d-dimensional quantum system has minimally 4d-4 outcomes or slightly less (the exact number depending on the dimension d). However, no simple construction of this type of observable with minimal number of outcomes is known. In this work we investigate the possibility to have a covariant observable that identifies all pure states and has minimal number of outcomes for this purpose. It is shown that the existence of these kind of observables depends on the dimension of the Hilbert space. The fact that these kind of observables fail to exist in some dimensions indicates that the dual pair of observables -- pure states lacks the symmetry that the dual pair of observables -- states has.

id: 1212.4365
title: Two-photon and three-photon blockades in driven nonlinear systems
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Malgorzata Paprzycka, Yu-xi Liu, Jiri Bajer, Franco Nori
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023809 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4365
abstract: Photon blockade, in analogy to Coulomb's or phonon blockades, is a phenomenon when a single photon in a nonlinear cavity blocks the transmission of a second photon. This effect can occur in Kerr-type systems driven by a laser due to strong nonlinear photon-photon interactions. We predict the occurrence of higher-order photon blockades where the transmission of more than two photons is effectively blocked by single- and two-photon states. This photon blockade can be achieved by tuning the frequency of the laser driving field to be equal to the sum of the Kerr nonlinearity and the cavity resonance frequency. We refer to this phenomenon as two-photon blockade or two-photon state truncation via nonlinear scissors, and can also be interpreted as photon-induced tunneling. We also show that, for a driving-field frequency fulfilling another resonance condition and for higher strengths of the driving field, even a three-photon blockade can occur but less clearly than in the case of single- and two-photon blockades. We demonstrate how various photon blockades can be identified by analyzing photon-number correlations, coherence and entropic properties, Wigner functions, and spectra of squeezing. We show that two- and three-photon blockades can, in principle, be observed in various cavity and circuit quantum electrodynamical systems for which the standard single-photon blockade was observed without the need of using higher-order driving interactions or Kerr media exhibiting higher-order nonlinear susceptibility.

id: 1212.4387
title: Vanishing quantum discord is not necessary for completely-positive maps
authors: Aharon Brodutch, Animesh Datta, Kavan Modi, ?ngel Rivas, C¨¦sar A. Rodr¨ªguez-Rosario
comments: close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4387
abstract: The description of the dynamics of a system that may be correlated with its environment is only meaningful within the context of a specific framework. Different frameworks rely upon different assumptions about the initial system-environment state. We reexamine the connections between complete-positivity and quantum discord within two different sets of assumptions about the relevant family of initial states. We present an example of a system-environment state with non-vanishing quantum discord that leads to a completely-positive map. This invalidates an earlier claim on the necessity of vanishing quantum discord for completely-positive maps. In our final remarks we discuss the physical validity of each approach.

id: 1212.4399
title: Berry phase in atom optics
authors: Polina V. Mironova, Maxim A. Efremov, Wolfgang P. Schleich
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A 87, 013627 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4399
abstract: We consider the scattering of an atom by a sequence of two near-resonant standing light waves each formed by two running waves with slightly different wave vectors. Due to opposite detunings of the two standing waves and within the rotating wave approximation, the adiabatic approximation applied to the atomic center-of-mass motion and a smooth turn-on and -off of the interaction, the dynamical phase cancels out and the final state of the atom differs from the initial one only by the sum of the two Berry phases accumulated in the two interaction regions. This phase depends on the position of the atom in a way such that the wave packet emerging from the scattering region will focus, which constitutes a novel method to observe the Berry phase without resorting to interferometric methods.

id: 1212.4412
title: Experimental generation of multi-photon Fock states
authors: Merlin Cooper, Laura J. Wright, Christoph S?ller, Brian J. Smith
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 5, pp. 5309-5317 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4412
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the generation of multi-photon Fock states with up to three photons in well-defined spatial-temporal modes synchronized with a classical clock. The states are characterized using quantum optical homodyne tomography to ensure mode selectivity. The three-photon Fock states are probabilistically generated by pulsed spontaneous parametric down conversion at a rate of one per second, enabling complete characterization in 12 hours.

id: 1212.4430
title: Selective writing and read-out of a register of static qubits
authors: A. De Pasquale, F. Ciccarello, K. Yuasa, V. Giovannetti
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 043012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4430
abstract: We propose a setup comprising an arbitrarily large array of static qubits (SQs), which interact with a flying qubit (FQ). The SQs work as a quantum register, which can be written or read-out by means of the FQ through quantum state transfer (QST). The entire system, including the FQ's motional degrees of freedom, behaves quantum mechanically. We demonstrate a strategy allowing for selective QST between the FQ and a single SQ chosen from the register. This is achieved through a perfect mirror located beyond the SQs and suitable modulation of the inter-SQ distances.

id: 1212.4454
title: Spin system trajectory analysis under optimal control pulses
authors: Ilya Kuprov
comments: Submitted for publication
journal: Journal of Magnetic Resonance, 233 (2013) 107-112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4454
abstract: Several methods are proposed for the analysis, visualization and interpretation of high-dimensional spin system trajectories produced by quantum mechanical simulations. It is noted that expectation values of specific observables in large spin systems often feature fast, complicated and hard-to-interpret time dynamics and suggested that populations of carefully selected subspaces of states are much easier to analyze and interpret. As an illustration of the utility of the proposed methods, it is demonstrated that the apparent "noisy" appearance of many optimal control pulses in NMR and EPR spectroscopy is an illusion - the underlying spin dynamics is shown to be smooth, orderly and very tightly controlled.

id: 1212.4501
title: Performance bound for quantum absorption refrigerators
authors: Luis A. Correa, Jos¨¦ P. Palao, Gerardo Adesso, Daniel Alonso
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 042131 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4501
abstract: An implementation of quantum absorption chillers with three qubits has been recently proposed, that is ideally able to reach the Carnot performance regime. Here we study the working efficiency of such self-contained refrigerators, adopting a consistent treatment of dissipation effects. We demonstrate that the coefficient of performance at maximum cooling power is upper bounded by 3/4 of the Carnot performance. The result is independent of the details of the system and the equilibrium temperatures of the external baths. We provide design prescriptions that saturate the bound in the limit of a large difference between the operating temperatures. Our study suggests that delocalized dissipation, which must be taken into account for a proper modelling of the machine-baths interaction, is a fundamental source of irreversibility which prevents the refrigerator from approaching the Carnot performance arbitrarily closely in practice. The potential role of quantum correlations in the operation of these machines is also investigated.

id: 1212.4537
title: Stimulated and Spontaneous Emission of Radiation in a Single Mode for N-TLMs
authors: Michael T. Tavis, Frederick W. Cummings
comments: 32 pages 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4537
abstract: The general expressions for the time development of the ensemble averages of E^- and E^-E^+ are found for N two level molecules (TLMs) interacting with a single mode electromagnetic field. The TLMs are assumed to be at equivalent mode positions in the field. In the main body of the paper, the general results are then simplified by assuming that all TLMs are in the up state at time 0. Examples of spontaneous emission behavior including both Super Radiant behavior and emission suppression are shown in Appendix E while stimulated emission with all TLMs initially in the lower state is examined in Appendix F. Both resonant and non resonant cases are considered in the main body. Analytic results are presented for low numbers of TLMs. In the appendices, it will be shown that for the mean photon number large in comparison to the number of TLMs, that the Average Field Approximation (AFA) is a useful representation with much simpler analytic form. The validity of this approximation will also be examined. In the main paper, a comparison between the exact results and results using the AFA will be presented for a small number of TLMs and a large average photon number. It will be found that the results are in general remarkably similar but for non resonance differ somewhat at a finer level of detail. Of interest is that the ensemble averages for N TLMs is similar to the ensemble average for a single TLM multiplied by the number of TLMs which is somewhat disappointing but is believed to be the consequence of assuming that all TLMs are at equivalent mode positions and large mean photon number. Some results for smaller photon number will also be presented

id: 1212.4540
title: Quantum walks with memory - goldfish, elephants and wise old men
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Gavin K. Brennen, Alexei Gilchrist
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 87, 052302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4540
abstract: Quantum walks have emerged as an interesting approach to quantum information processing, exhibiting many unique properties compared to the analogous classical random walk. Here we introduce a model for a discrete-time quantum walk with memory by endowing the walker with multiple recycled coins and using a physical memory function via a history dependent coin flip. By numerical simulation we observe several phenomena. First in one dimension, walkers with memory have persistent quantum ballistic speed up over classical walks just as found in previous studies of multi-coined walks with trivial memory function. However, measurement of the multi-coin state can dramatically shift the mean of the spatial distribution. Second, we consider spatial entanglement in a two-dimensional quantum walk with memory and find that memory destroys entanglement between the spatial dimensions, even when entangling coins are employed. Finally, we explore behaviour in the presence of spatial randomness and find that in contrast to single coined walks, multi-coined walks do not localise and in fact a memory function can speed up the walk relative to a fully decohered multi-coin walker with trivial memory. We explicitly show how to construct linear optics circuits implementing the walks, and discuss prospects for classical simulation.

id: 1212.4557
title: Tradeoff between Leakage and Dephasing Errors in the Fluxonium Qubit
authors: David A. Herrera-Mart¨ª, Ahsan Nazir, Sean D. Barrett
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 094512 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4557
abstract: We present a tradeoff between leakage and pure dephasing errors for the fluxonium circuit. We show that in the insulating regime, i.e., when the persistent current flowing across the circuit is suppressed, the pure dephasing rate decreases exponentially as the impedance of the circuit is increased. In contrast to this exponential decrease, the qubit remains sufficiently anharmonic so that gates times can still be short, allowing for significant reduction in the computational error rates.

id: 1212.4572
title: Quantum Correlations, Chaos and Information
authors: Vaibhav Madhok
comments: Dissertation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4572
abstract: Quantum chaos is the study of quantum systems whose classical description is chaotic. How does chaos manifest itself in the quantum world? In this spirit, we study the dynamical generation of entanglement as a signature of chaos in a system of periodically kicked coupled-tops, where chaos and entanglement arise from the same physical mechanism. The long-time entanglement as a function of the position of an initially localized wave packet very closely correlates with the classical phase space surface of section - it is nearly uniform in the chaotic sea, and reproduces the detailed structure of the regular islands. The uniform value in the chaotic sea is explained by the random state conjecture. As classically chaotic dynamics take localized distributions in phase space to random distributions, quantized versions take localized coherent states to pseudo-random states in Hilbert space. Such random states are highly entangled, with an average value near that of the maximally entangled state. Continuing on our journey to find the footprints of chaos in the quantum world, we explore quantum signatures of classical chaos by studying the rate of information gain in quantum tomography. We find an increase in the rate of information gain and hence higher fidelities in the process when the Floquet maps employed increase in chaoticity. We make predictions for the information gain using random matrix theory in the fully chaotic regime and show a remarkable agreement between the two. The last part of this thesis is devoted to the study of the nature of quantum correlations themselves. We present an operational interpretation of quantum discord based on the quantum state merging protocol. Quantum discord is the markup in the cost of quantum communication in the process of quantum state merging, if one discards relevant prior information.

id: 1212.4581
title: The probe readout and quantum limited measurements
authors: Salini Jose, Noufal Jaseem, Anil Shaji
comments: 10 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4581
abstract: Assuming that the parameter dependent evolution, as well as the measurements that are done for readout, of a quantum system that acts as the probe in a quantum limited measurement scheme are both fixed, we find the optimal initial states of the probe that will saturate the quantum Cramer-Rao bound. When the probe system is itself made of identical, elementary, two-level subsystems or qubits, we connect the optimal state of the N qubit probe to that of the one qubit probe. This is done for two different classes of dynamics for the probe qubits, one of which is entangling while the other is not. We study the limitations placed on the optimal initial state of the probe and the achievable measurement uncertainty by restrictions on the readout procedure that is applied on the probe qubits at the end of the measurement protocol.

id: 1212.4584
title: Resources needed for non-unitary quantum operations
authors: Raam Uzdin
comments: 
journal: 2013 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 145302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4584
abstract: Non-unitary operations generated by an effective non-Hermitian Hamiltonian can be used to create quantum state manipulations which are impossible in Hermitian quantum mechanics. These operations include state preparation (or cooling) and non-orthogonal state discrimination. In this work we put a lower bound on the resources needed for the construction of some given non-unitary evolution. Passive systems are studied in detail and a general feature of such a system is derived. After interpreting our results using the singular value decomposition, several examples are studied analytically. In particular, we put a lower bound on the resources needed for non-Hermitian state preparation and non-orthogonal state discrimination.

id: 1212.4631
title: Realist model approach to quantum mechanics
authors: Petr Hajicek
comments: 11 pages, no figure. Based on talk at DICE2012, Castiglioncello, September 17--21, 2012. Published version
journal: J. Phys.: Conference Series 442 (2013) 012043
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4631
abstract: The paper proves that quantum mechanics is compatible with the constructive realism of modern philosophy of science. The proof is based on the observation that properties of quantum systems that are uniquely determined by their preparations can be assumed objective without the difficulties that are encountered by the same assumption about values of observables. The resulting realist interpretation of quantum mechanics is made rigorous by studying the space of quantum states---the convex set of state operators. Prepared states are classified according to their statistical structure into indecomposable and decomposable instead of pure and mixed. Simple objective properties are defined and showed to form a Boolean lattice.

id: 1212.4654
title: On Classical and Quantum MDS-Convolutional BCH Codes
authors: Giuliano G. La Guardia
comments: Accepted for publication in IEEE-Transactions on Information Theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4654
abstract: Several new families of multi-memory classical convolutional Bose-Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem (BCH) codes as well as families of unit-memory quantum convolutional codes are constructed in this paper. Our unit-memory classical and quantum convolutional codes are optimal in the sense that they attain the classical (quantum) generalized Singleton bound. The constructions presented in this paper are performed algebraically and not by computational search.

id: 1212.4687
title: An interpretation of the formalism of quantum mechanics in terms of epistemological realism
authors: Arthur Jabs
comments: 17 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/9606017
journal: Brit. J. Phil. Sci. 43 (1992), 405-421
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4687
abstract: We present an alternative to the Copenhagen interpretation of the formalism of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics. The basic difference is that the new interpretation is formulated in the language of epistemological realism. It involves a change in some basic physical concepts. Elementary particles are considered as extended objects and nonlocal effects are included. The role of the new concepts in the problem of measurement and of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations is described. Experiments to distinguish the proposed interpretation from the Copenhagen one are pointed out.

id: 1212.4704
title: Quantum Cloning by Cellular Automata
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, C. Macchiavello, M. Rossi
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032337 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4704
abstract: We introduce a quantum cellular automaton that achieves approximate phase-covariant cloning of qubits. The automaton is optimized for 1-to-2N economical cloning. The use of the automaton for cloning allows us to exploit different foliations for improving the performance with given resources.

id: 1212.4709
title: Mesoscopic mean-field theory for spin-boson chains in quantum optical systems
authors: Pedro Nevado, Diego Porras
comments: To appear in EPJ ST issue on "Novel Quantum Phases and Mesoscopic Physics in Quantum Gases"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4709
abstract: We present a theoretical description of a system of many spins strongly coupled to a bosonic chain. We rely on the use of a spin-wave theory describing the Gaussian fluctuations around the mean-field solution, and focus on spin-boson chains arising as a generalization of the Dicke Hamiltonian. Our model is motivated by experimental setups such as trapped ions, or atoms/qubits coupled to cavity arrays. This situation corresponds to the cooperative (E$\otimes$$\beta$) Jahn-Teller distortion studied in solid-state physics. However, the ability to tune the parameters of the model in quantum optical setups opens up a variety of novel intriguing situations. The main focus of this paper is to review the spin-wave theoretical description of this problem as well as to test the validity of mean-field theory. Our main result is that deviations from mean-field effects are determined by the interplay between magnetic order and mesoscopic cooperativity effects, being the latter strongly size-dependent.

id: 1212.4729
title: Entanglement-enhanced probing of a delicate material system
authors: Florian Wolfgramm, Chiara Vitelli, Federica A. Beduini, Nicolas Godbout, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures; Nature Photonics, advance online publication, 16 December 2012
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 28 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4729
abstract: Quantum metrology uses entanglement and other quantum effects to improve the sensitivity of demanding measurements. Probing of delicate systems demands high sensitivity from limited probe energy and has motivated the field's key benchmark-the standard quantum limit. Here we report the first entanglement-enhanced measurement of a delicate material system. We non-destructively probe an atomic spin ensemble by means of near-resonant Faraday rotation, a measurement that is limited by probe-induced scattering in quantum-memory and spin-squeezing applications. We use narrowband, atom-resonant NOON states to beat the standard quantum limit of sensitivity by more than five standard deviations, both on a per-photon and per-damage basis. This demonstrates quantum enhancement with fully realistic loss and noise, including variable-loss effects. The experiment opens the way to ultra-gentle probing of single atoms, single molecules, quantum gases and living cells.

id: 1212.4778
title: Robustness of quantum memories based on Majorana zero modes
authors: Leonardo Mazza, Matteo Rizzi, Mikhail D. Lukin, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: Published version, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 205142 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4778
abstract: We analyze the rate at which quantum information encoded in zero-energy Majorana modes is lost in the presence of perturbations. We show that information can survive for times that scale exponentially with the size of the chain both in the presence of quenching and time-dependent quadratic dephasing perturbations, even when the latter have spectral components above the system's energy gap. The origin of the robust storage, namely the fact that a sudden quench affects in the same way both parity sectors of the original spectrum, is discussed, together with the memory performance at finite temperatures and in the presence of particle exchange with a bath.

id: 1212.4780
title: Generating polarization-entangled photon pairs using cross-spliced birefringent fibers
authors: Evan Meyer-Scott, Vincent Roy, Jean-Philippe Bourgoin, Brendon L. Higgins, Lynden K. Shalm, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, updated to published version
journal: Optics Express 21, 6205-6212 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4780
abstract: We demonstrate a novel polarization-entangled photon-pair source based on standard birefringent polarization-maintaining optical fiber. The source consists of two stretches of fiber spliced together with perpendicular polarization axes, and has the potential to be fully fiber-based, with all bulk optics replaced with in-fiber equivalents. By modelling the temporal walk-off in the fibers, we implement compensation necessary for the photon creation processes in the two stretches of fiber to be indistinguishable. Our source subsequently produces a high quality entangled state having (92.2 \pm 0.2) % fidelity with a maximally entangled Bell state.

id: 1212.4787
title: Complete positivity of the map from a basis to its dual basis
authors: Vern I. Paulsen, Fred Shultz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4787
abstract: The dual of a matrix ordered space has a natural matrix ordering that makes the dual space matrix ordered as well. The purpose of these notes is to give a condition that describes when the linear map taking a basis of the n by n matrices to its dual basis is a complete order isomorphism and complete co-order isomorphism. In the case of the standard matrix units this map is a complete order isomorphism and this is a restatement of the correspondence between completely positive maps and the Choi matrix. However, we exhibit natural orthonormal bases for the matrices such that this map is an order isomorphism, but not a complete order isomorphism. Some bases yield complete co-order isomorphisms. Included among such bases is the Pauli basis and tensor products of the Pauli basis. Consequently, when the Pauli basis is used in place of the the matrix unit basis, the analogue of Choi's theorem is a characterization of completely co-positive maps.

id: 1212.4795
title: Cool for Cats
authors: M. J. Everitt, T. P. Spiller, G. J. Milburn, R. D. Wilson, A. M. Zagoskin
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures. Significantly updated version with supplementary information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4795
abstract: The iconic Schr\"odinger's cat state describes a system that may be in a superposition of two macroscopically distinct states, for example two clearly separated oscillator coherent states. Quite apart from their role in understanding the quantum classical boundary, such states have been suggested as offering a quantum advantage for quantum metrology, quantum communication and quantum computation. As is well known these applications have to face the difficulty that the irreversible interaction with an environment causes the superposition to rapidly evolve to a mixture of the component states in the case that the environment is not monitored. Here we show that by engineering the interaction with the environment there exists a large class of systems that can evolve irreversibly to a cat state. To be precise we show that it is possible to engineer an irreversible process so that the steady state is close to a pure Schr\"odinger's cat state by using double well systems and an environment comprising two-photon (or phonon) absorbers. We also show that it should be possible to prolong the lifetime of a Schr\"odinger's cat state exposed to the destructive effects of a conventional single-photon decohering environment. Our protocol should make it easier to prepare and maintain Schr\"odinger cat states which would be useful in applications of quantum metrology and information processing as well as being of interest to those probing the quantum to classical transition.

id: 1212.4802
title: Saving the Coherent State Path Integral
authors: Yariv Yanay, Erich J. Mueller
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4802
abstract: By returning to the underlying discrete time formalism, we relate spurious results in coherent state path integral calculations to the high frequency structure of their propagators. We show how to modify the standard expressions for thermodynamic quantities to yield correct results. These expressions are relevant to a broad range of physical problems, from the thermodynamics of Bose lattice gases to the dynamics of spin systems.

id: 1212.4854
title: The Scope and Generality of Bell's Theorem
authors: James Owen Weatherall
comments: 24 pages, no figures, forthcoming in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4854
abstract: I present what might seem to be a local, deterministic model of the EPR-Bohm experiment, inspired by recent work by Joy Christian, that appears at first blush to be in tension with Bell-type theorems. I argue that the model ultimately fails to do what a hidden variable theory needs to do, but that it is interesting nonetheless because the way it fails helps clarify the scope and generality of Bell-type theorems. I formulate and prove a minor proposition that makes explicit how Bell-type theorems rule out models of the sort I describe here.

id: 1212.4872
title: Distilling one-qubit magic states into Toffoli states
authors: Bryan Eastin
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures, 1 table, v2: corrected several careless errors, apologies
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4872
abstract: For certain quantum architectures and algorithms, most of the required resources are consumed during the distillation of one-qubit magic states for use in performing Toffoli gates. I show that the overhead for magic-state distillation can be reduced by merging distillation with the implementation of Toffoli gates. The resulting routine distills 8 one-qubit magic states directly to a Toffoli state, which can be used without further magic to perform a Toffoli gate.

id: 1212.4897
title: On relation between geometric momentum and annihilation operators on a two-dimensional sphere
authors: Q. H. Liu, Y. Shen, D. M. Xun, X. Wang
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics,Vol. 10, No. 6 (2013) 1320007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4897
abstract: With a recently introduced geometric momentum that depends on the extrinsic curvature and offers a proper description of momentum on two-dimensional sphere, we show that the annihilation operators whose eigenstates are coherent states on the sphere take the expected form {\alpha}x+i{\beta}p, where {\alpha} and {\beta} are two operators that depend on the angular momentum and x and p are the position and the geometric momentum, respectively. Since the geometric momentum is manifestly a consequence of embedding the two-dimensional sphere in the three-dimensional flat space, the coherent states reflects some aspects beyond the intrinsic geometry of the surfaces.

id: 1212.4927
title: A no-go result on the purification of quantum states
authors: C. Di Franco, M. Paternostro
comments: RevTeX4, 4+2 pages, 4 figures. Available at this http URL
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1387 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4927
abstract: The information encoded in a quantum system is generally spoiled by the influences of its environment, leading to a transition from pure to mixed states. Reducing the mixedness of a state is a fundamental step in the quest for a feasible implementation of quantum technologies. Here we show that it is impossible to "transfer" part of such mixedness to a "trash" system without losing some of the initial information. Such loss is lower-bounded by a value determined by the properties of the initial state to purify. We discuss this interesting phenomenon and its consequences for general quantum information theory, linking it to the information theoretical primitive embodied by the quantum state-merging protocol and to the behaviour of general quantum correlations.

id: 1212.4933
title: Quantum phase transition in a three-level atom-molecule system
authors: Sheng-Chang Li, Li-Bin Fu, Fu-Li Li
comments: 8 pages,8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4933
abstract: We adopt a three-level bosonic model to investigate the quantum phase transition in an ultracold atom-molecule conversion system which includes one atomic mode and two molecular modes. Through thoroughly exploring the properties of energy level structure, fidelity, and adiabatical geometric phase, we confirm that the system exists a second-order phase transition from an atommolecule mixture phase to a pure molecule phase. We give the explicit expression of the critical point and obtain two scaling laws to characterize this transition. In particular we find that both the critical exponents and the behaviors of ground-state geometric phase change obviously in contrast to a similar two-level model. Our analytical calculations show that the ground-state geometric phase jumps from zero to ?pi/3 at the critical point. This discontinuous behavior has been checked by numerical simulations and it can be used to identify the phase transition in the system.

id: 1212.4934
title: Requirements for fault-tolerant factoring on an atom-optics quantum computer
authors: Simon J. Devitt, Ashley M. Stephens, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 18 Pages, 17 Figs. Comments Welcome
journal: Nature (communications) 4, 2524 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4934
abstract: Quantum information processing and its associated technologies has reached an interesting and timely stage in their development where many different experiments have been performed establishing the basic building blocks. The challenge moving forward is to scale up to larger sized quantum machines capable of performing tasks not possible today. This raises a number of interesting questions like: How big will these machines need to be? how many resources will they consume? This needs to be urgently addressed. Here we estimate the resources required to execute Shor's factoring algorithm on a distributed atom-optics quantum computer architecture. We determine the runtime and requisite size of the quantum computer as a function of the problem size and physical error rate. Our results suggest that once experimental accuracy reaches levels below the fault-tolerant threshold, further optimisation of computational performance and resources is largely an issue of how the algorithm and circuits are implemented, rather than the physical quantum hardware

id: 1212.4941
title: Corrections to our results for optical nanofiber traps in Cesium
authors: D. Ding, A. Goban, K. S. Choi, H. J. Kimble
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4941
abstract: Several errors in Refs. [1, 2] are corrected related to the optical trapping potentials for a state-insensitive, compensated nanofiber trap for the D2 transition of atomic Cesium. Section I corrects our basic formalism in Ref. [1] for calculating dipole-force potentials. Section II corrects erroneous values for a partial lifetime and a transition wavelength in Ref. [1]. Sections III and IV present corrected figures for various trapping configurations considered in Refs. [1] and [2], respectively.

id: 1212.4952
title: Atomic Quantum Simulation of Lattice Gauge-Higgs Model: Higgs Couplings and Emergence of Exact Local Gauge Symmetry
authors: Kenichi Kasamatsu, Ikuo Ichinose, Tetsuo Matsui
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, Version to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett, Supplemental material added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 115303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4952
abstract: Recently, the possibility of quantum simulation of dynamical gauge fields was pointed out by using a system of cold atoms trapped on each link in an optical lattice. However, to implement exact local gauge invariance, fine-tuning the interaction parameters among atoms is necessary. In the present paper, we study the effect of violation of the U(1) local gauge invariance by relaxing the fine-tuning of the parameters and showing that a wide variety of cold atoms is still to be a faithful quantum simulator for a U(1) gauge-Higgs model containing a Higgs field sitting on sites. Clarification of the dynamics of this gauge-Higgs model sheds some lights upon various unsolved problems including the inflation process of the early universe. We study the phase structure of this model by Monte Carlo simulation, and also discuss the atomic characteristics of the Higgs phase in each simulator.

id: 1212.4956
title: Quantum Mechanical Observers and Time Reparametrization Symmetry
authors: Eiji Konishi
comments: 16 pages
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.B.26:1250111,2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4956
abstract: We propose that the degree of freedom of measurement by quantum mechanical observers originates in the Goldstone mode of the spontaneously broken time reparametrization symmetry. Based on the classification of quantum states by their non-unitary temporal behavior as seen in the measurement processes, we describe the concepts of the quantum mechanical observers via the time reparametrization symmetry.

id: 1212.4962
title: Simplified quantum bit commitment using single photon nonlocality
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: Published version
journal: Quantum. Inf. Process. 13, 2195 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4962
abstract: We simplified our previously proposed quantum bit commitment (QBC) protocol based on the Mach-Zehnder interferometer, by replacing symmetric beam splitters with asymmetric ones. It eliminates the need for random sending time of the photons; thus, the feasibility and efficiency are both improved. The protocol is immune to the cheating strategy in the Mayers-Lo-Chau no-go theorem of unconditionally secure QBC, because the density matrices of the committed states do not satisfy a crucial condition on which the no-go theorem holds.

id: 1212.4979
title: On the quantization and generalized uncertainty relation for some quantum deformed algebras
authors: Won Sang Chung
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4979
abstract: In this paper, the quantization and generalized uncertainty relation for some quantum deformed algebras are investigated. For several deformed algebras, the commutation relation between the position and the momentum operator is shown to be the same as the one in the Planck scale deformed quantum mechanics.

id: 1212.4990
title: Quantum physical states for describing photonic assisted chemical change: I. Torsional phenomenon at femtosecond time scale
authors: O. Tapia
comments: 7 pages version 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4990
abstract: Femtosecond torsional relaxation processes experimentally detected and recently reported by Clark et al. (Nature Phys. 8,225 (2012)) are theoretically dissected with a Hilbert/Fock quantum physical (QP) framework incorporating entanglement of photon/matter base states overcoming standard semi-classic vibrational descriptions. The quantum analysis of a generic Z/E (cis/trans) isomerization in abstract QP terms shed light to fundamental roles played by photonic spin and excited electronic singlet coupled to triplet states. It is shown that one photon activation cannot elicit femtosecond phenomenon, while a two-photon pulse would do. Estimated time scales for the two-photon case indicate the process to lie between a slower than electronic Franck-Condon-like transition yet faster than (semi-classic) vibration relaxation ones.

id: 1212.5001
title: Simulation of non-Abelian Anyons using ribbon operators connected to a common base site
authors: Xi-wang Luo, Yong-jian Han, Guang-can Guo, Xingxiang Zhou, Zheng-Wei Zhou
comments: 16 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052314 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5001
abstract: A convenient and effective way in the quantum double model to study anyons in a topological space with a tensor product structure is to create and braid anyons using ribbon operators connected to a common base site [A. Kitaev Ann.\ Phys. (N.Y.) \textbf{303}, 2 (2003)]. We show how this scheme can be simulated in a physical system by constructing long ribbon operators connected to a base site that is placed faraway. We describe how to move and braid anyons using these ribbon operators, and how to perform measurement on them. We also give the smallest scale of a system that is sufficient for proof-of-principle demonstration of our scheme.

id: 1212.5002
title: Strongly-coupled Josephson junction array for simulation of frustrated one-dimensional spin models
authors: Liang-Hui Du, Xingxiang Zhou, Yong-Jian Han, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Wei Zhou
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5002
abstract: We study the capacitance-coupled Josephson junction array beyond the small-coupling limit. We find that, when the scale of the system is large, its Hamiltonian can be obtained without the small-coupling approximation and the system can be used to simulate strongly frustrated one-dimensional Ising spin problems. To engineer the system Hamiltonian for an ideal theoretical model, we apply a dynamical decoupling technique to eliminate undesirable couplings in the system. Using a 6-site junction array as an example, we numerically evaluate the system to show that it exhibits important characteristics of the frustrated spin model.

id: 1212.5005
title: Computations in Quantum Tensor Networks
authors: T. Huckle, K. Waldherr, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen
comments: Presented in part at the 26th GAMM Seminar on Tensor Approximations at the Max-Planck-Institute for Mathematics in the Sciences in Leipzig, February 2010
journal: Lin. Alg. Appl. 438 (2013), 750--781
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5005
abstract: The computation of the ground state (i.e. the eigenvector related to the smallest eigenvalue) is an important task in the simulation of quantum many-body systems. As the dimension of the underlying vector space grows exponentially in the number of particles, one has to consider appropriate subsets promising both convenient approximation properties and efficient computations. The variational ansatz for this numerical approach leads to the minimization of the Rayleigh quotient. The Alternating Least Squares technique is then applied to break down the eigenvector computation to problems of appropriate size, which can be solved by classical methods. Efficient computations require fast computation of the matrix-vector product and of the inner product of two decomposed vectors. To this end, both appropriate representations of vectors and efficient contraction schemes are needed. Here approaches from many-body quantum physics for one-dimensional and two-dimensional systems (Matrix Product States and Projected Entangled Pair States) are treated mathematically in terms of tensors. We give the definition of these concepts, bring some results concerning uniqueness and numerical stability and show how computations can be executed efficiently within these concepts. Based on this overview we present some modifications and generalizations of these concepts and show that they still allow efficient computations such as applicable contraction schemes. In this context we consider the minimization of the Rayleigh quotient in terms of the {\sc parafac} (CP) formalism, where we also allow different tensor partitions. This approach makes use of efficient contraction schemes for the calculation of inner products in a way that can easily be extended to the mps format but also to higher dimensional problems.

id: 1212.5023
title: Conditional mutual information and self-commutator
authors: Lin Zhang
comments: LaTex, 9 pages. Minor modifications are made. Any comments are welcome!
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 52(6): 2112-2117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5023
abstract: A simpler approach to the characterization of vanishing conditional mutual information is presented. Some remarks are given as well. More specifically, relating the conditional mutual information to a commutator is a very promising approach towards the approximate version of SSA. That is, it is conjectured that small conditional mutual information implies small perturbation of quantum Markov chain.

id: 1212.5036
title: Extremal states of positive partial transpose in a system of three qubits
authors: ?yvind Steensgaard Garberg, B?rge Irgens, Jan Myrheim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5036
abstract: We have studied mixed states in the system of three qubits with the property that all their partial transposes are positive, these are called PPT states. We classify a PPT state by the ranks of the state itself and its three single partial transposes. In random numerical searches we find entangled PPT states with a large variety of rank combinations. For ranks equal to five or higher we find both extremal and nonextremal PPT states of nearly every rank combination, with the restriction that the square sum of the four ranks of an extremal PPT state can be at most 193. We have studied especially the rank four entangled PPT states, which are found to have rank four for every partial transpose. These states are all extremal, because of the previously known result that every PPT state of rank three or less is separable. We find two distinct classes of rank 4444 entangled PPT states, identified by a real valued quadratic expression invariant under local SL(2,C) transformations, mathematically equivalent to Lorentz transformations. This quadratic Lorentz invariant is nonzero for one class of states (type I in our terminology) and zero for the other class (type II). The previously known states based on unextendible product bases is a nongeneric subclass of the type I states. We present analytical constructions of states of both types, general enough to reproduce all the rank 4444 PPT states we have found numerically. We can not exclude the possibility that there exist nongeneric rank four PPT states that we do not find in our random numerical searches.

id: 1212.5046
title: Complementarity Reveals Bound Entanglement of Two Twisted Photons
authors: Beatrix C. Hiesmayr, Wolfgang L?ffler
comments: 7 pages, added error discussion
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 083036 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5046
abstract: We witness for the first time the generation of bound entanglement of two photon qutrits, whose existence has been predicted by the Horodecki family in 1998. Detection of these heavily mixed entangled states, from which no pure entanglement can be distilled, is possible using a key concept of Nature: complementarity. This captures one of the most counterintuitive differences between a classical and quantum world, for instance, the well-known wave-particle duality is just an example of complementary observables. Our protocol uses maximum complementarity between observables: the knowledge about the result of one of them precludes any knowledge about the result of the other. It enables ample detection of entanglement in arbitrary high-dimensional systems, including the most challenging case, the detection of bound entanglement. For this we manipulate "twisted" twin photons in their orbital angular momentum degrees of freedom. Our experimentally demonstrated "maximum complementarity protocol" is very general and applies to all dimensions and arbitrary number of particles, thus enables simple entanglement testing in high-dimensional quantum information and opens up the quest of understanding the meaning of this type of entanglement in Nature.

id: 1212.5058
title: Real-Time Imaging of Quantum Entanglement
authors: Robert Fickler, Mario Krenn, Radek Lapkiewicz, Sven Ramelow, Anton Zeilinger
comments: Two supplementary movies available at the data conservancy project
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1914 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5058
abstract: Quantum Entanglement is widely regarded as one of the most prominent features of quantum mechanics and quantum information science. Although, photonic entanglement is routinely studied in many experiments nowadays, its signature has been out of the grasp for real-time imaging. Here we show that modern technology, namely triggered intensified charge coupled device (ICCD) cameras are fast and sensitive enough to image in real-time the effect of the measurement of one photon on its entangled partner. To quantitatively verify the non-classicality of the measurements we determine the detected photon number and error margin from the registered intensity image within a certain region. Additionally, the use of the ICCD camera allows us to demonstrate the high flexibility of the setup in creating any desired spatial-mode entanglement, which suggests as well that visual imaging in quantum optics not only provides a better intuitive understanding of entanglement but will improve applications of quantum science.

id: 1212.5059
title: EPR-based ghost imaging using a single-photon-sensitive camera
authors: Reuben S. Aspden, Daniel S. Tasca, Robert W. Boyd, Miles J. Padgett
comments: Updated to published version; Advanced wave picture section removed; 7 pages and 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 073032 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5059
abstract: Correlated-photon imaging, popularly known as ghost imaging, is a technique whereby an image is formed from light that has never interacted with the object. In ghost imaging experiments two correlated light fields are produced. One of these fields illuminates the object, and the other field is measured by a spatially resolving detector. In the quantum regime, these correlated light fields are produced by entangled photons created by spontaneous parametric down-conversion. To date, all correlated-photon ghost-imaging experiments have scanned a single-pixel detector through the field of view to obtain the spatial information. However, scanning leads to a poor sampling efficiency, which scales inversely with the number of pixels, N, in the image. In this work we overcome this limitation by using a time-gated camera to record the single-photon events across the full scene. We obtain high-contrast images, 90%, in either the image plane or the far-field of the photon pair source, taking advantage of the EPR-like correlations in position and momentum of the photon pairs. Our images contain a large number of modes, >500, creating opportunities in low-light-level imaging and in quantum information processing.

id: 1212.5069
title: Novel constructions for the fault-tolerant Toffoli gate
authors: Cody Jones
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022328 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5069
abstract: We present two new constructions for the Toffoli gate which substantially reduce resource costs in fault-tolerant quantum computing. The first contribution is a Toffoli gate requiring Clifford operations plus only four $T = \exp(i\pi\sigma^z/8)$ gates, whereas conventional circuits require seven $T$ gates. An extension of this result is that adding $n$ control inputs to a controlled gate requires $4n$ $T$ gates, whereas the best prior result was $8n$. The second contribution is a quantum circuit for the Toffoli gate which can detect a single $\sigma^z$ error occurring with probability $p$ in any one of eight $T$ gates required to produce the Toffoli. By post-selecting circuits that did not detect an error, the posterior error probability is suppressed to lowest order from $4p$ (or $7p$, without the first contribution) to $28p^2$ for this enhanced construction. In fault-tolerant quantum computing, this construction can reduce the overhead for producing logical Toffoli gates by an order of magnitude.

id: 1212.5115
title: Qudit-Teleportation for photons with linear optics
authors: Sandeep K Goyal, Patricia E. Boukama-Dzoussi, Sibasish Ghosh, Filippus S. Roux, Thomas Konrad
comments: Published in Nature Scientific Reports
journal: Nature Scientific Reports, 4, 4543 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5115
abstract: Quantum Teleportation, the transfer of the state of one quantum system to another without direct interaction between both systems, is an important way to transmit information encoded in quantum states and to generate quantum correlations (entanglement) between remote quantum systems. So far, for photons, only superpositions of two distinguishable states (one ``qubit'') could be teleported. Here we show how to teleport a ``qudit'', i.e. a superposition of an arbitrary number $d$ of distinguishable states present in the orbital angular momentum of a single photon using $d$ beam splitters and $d$ additional entangled photons. The same entanglement resource might also be employed to collectively teleport the state of $d/2$ photons at the cost of one additional entangled photon per qubit. This is superior to existing schemes for photonic qubits, which require an additional pair of entangled photons per qubit.

id: 1212.5214
title: A simple proof of Bell's inequality
authors: Lorenzo Maccone
comments: Version accepted for publication on American Journal of Physics. Appendix B added, along with various clarifications on the nomenclature
journal: L. Maccone, Am. J. Phys. 81, 854 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5214
abstract: Bell's theorem is a fundamental result in quantum mechanics: it discriminates between quantum mechanics and all theories where probabilities in measurement results arise from the ignorance of pre-existing local properties. We give an extremely simple proof of Bell's inequality: a single figure suffices. This simplicity may be useful in the unending debate of what exactly the Bell inequality means, since the hypothesis at the basis of the proof become extremely transparent. It is also a useful didactic tool, as the Bell inequality can be explained in a single intuitive lecture.

id: 1212.5219
title: Transfer and storage of qubits in the presence of decoherence
authors: Kelly R. Patton, Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 6 pages of EPL2, 3 figures
journal: EPL 102, 20001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5219
abstract: The effects of decoherence on the transfer and storage of coherent quantum states in hybrid systems are studied within the Caldeira-Leggett approach. In general, we find that a high transfer fidelity can be achieved even if the decoherence time is less than an order of magnitude larger than the transfer time, which is approximately half a Rabi period and determined by the qubit-qubit coupling strength. Finally, we apply our results to assess the feasibility of a hybrid quantum memory system, comprised of the hyperfine qubit states of an ultracold atomic Bose-Einstein condensate and the flux qubit of a SQUID.

id: 1212.5237
title: Quantum-Coherence-Enhanced Surface Plasmon Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation
authors: Konstantin E. Dorfman, Pankaj K. Jha, Dmitri V. Voronine, Patrice Genevet, Federico Capasso, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5237
abstract: We investigate surface plasmon amplification in a silver nanoparticle coupled to an externally driven three-level gain medium, and show that quantum coherence significantly enhances the generation of surface plasmons. Surface plasmon amplification by stimulated emission of radiation is achieved in the absence of population inversion on the spasing transition, which reduces the pump requirements. The coherent drive allows us to control the dynamics, and holds promise for quantum control of nanoplasmonic devices.

id: 1212.5277
title: Multiqubit quantum phase gate using four-level superconducting quantum interference devices coupled to superconducting resonator
authors: Muhammad Waseem, Muhammad Irfan, Shahid Qamar
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physica C 477, 24-31(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5277
abstract: In this paper, we propose a scheme to realize three-qubit quantum phase gate of one qubit simultaneously controlling two target qubits using four-level superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) coupled to a superconducting resonator. The two lowest levels |0> and |1> of each SQUID are used to represent logical states while the higher energy levels |2> and |3> are utilized for gate realization. Our scheme does not require adiabatic passage, second order detuning, and the adjustment of the level spacing during gate operation which reduce the gate time significantly. The scheme is generalized for an arbitrary n-qubit quantum phase gate. We also apply the scheme to implement three-qubit quantum Fourier transform. key words: quantum phase gate, superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs), superconducting resonator, quantum Fourier transform

id: 1212.5316
title: Quantum rate distortion coding with auxiliary resources
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Nilanjana Datta, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Andreas Winter
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures, IEEE format; v3: accepted into IEEE Transactions on Information Theory with minor changes
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory vol. 59, no. 10, pages 6755-6773 (October 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5316
abstract: We extend quantum rate distortion theory by considering auxiliary resources that might be available to a sender and receiver performing lossy quantum data compression. The first setting we consider is that of quantum rate distortion coding with the help of a classical side channel. Our result here is that the regularized entanglement of formation characterizes the quantum rate distortion function, extending earlier work of Devetak and Berger. We also combine this bound with the entanglement-assisted bound from our prior work to obtain the best known bounds on the quantum rate distortion function for an isotropic qubit source. The second setting we consider is that of quantum rate distortion coding with quantum side information (QSI) available to the receiver. In order to prove results in this setting, we first state and prove a quantum reverse Shannon theorem with QSI (for tensor-power states), which extends the known tensor-power quantum reverse Shannon theorem. The achievability part of this theorem relies on the quantum state redistribution protocol, while the converse relies on the fact that the protocol can cause only a negligible disturbance to the joint state of the reference and the receiver's QSI. This quantum reverse Shannon theorem with QSI naturally leads to quantum rate-distortion theorems with QSI, with or without entanglement assistance.

id: 1212.5328
title: Quantum simulation of Heisenberg spin chains with next nearest neighbor interactions in coupled cavities
authors: Zhi-Xin Chen, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Xingxiang Zhou, Xiang-Fa Zhou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5328
abstract: We propose a scheme to simulate one-dimensional XXZ-type Heisenberg spin models with competing interactions between nearest-neighbors (NNs) and next-NNs in photon-coupled micro-cavities. Our scheme, for the first time, exploits the rich resources and flexible controls available in such a system to realize arbitrarily adjustable ratios between the effective NN and next-NN coupling strengths. Such powerful capability allows us to simulate frustration phenomena and disorder behaviors in 1-d systems arising from next-NN interactions, a large class of problems of great importance in condensed matter physics. Our scheme is robust due to the lack of atomic excitations which suppresses spontaneous emission and cavity decay strongly.

id: 1212.5338
title: Identifying quantumness via addition-then-subtraction operation
authors: Su-Yong Lee, Changsuk Noh, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: published version, 4+ pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013806 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5338
abstract: We propose a measure of quantumness based on an addition-then-subtraction operation. We demonstrate how this measure can distinguish between classical and bosonic particles by investigating in detail multi-particle bosonic systems. Experimental schemes implementing this measure for bosons in all-optical and atom-cavity systems are provided. We also apply this measure to single-mode fermionic systems.

id: 1212.5340
title: Classical Structures in Quantum Mechanics and Applications
authors: Augusto Cesar Lobo, Clyffe de Assis Ribeiro
comments: 33 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5340
abstract: The theory of Non-Relativistic Quantum Mechanics was created (or discovered) back in the 1920's mainly by Schr\"odinger and Heisenberg, but it is fair enough to say that a more modern and unified approach to the subject was introduced by Dirac and Jordan with their (intrinsic) Transformation Theory. In his famous text book on quantum mechanics [1], Dirac introduced his well-known bra and ket notation and a view that even Einstein (who was, as well known, very critical towards the general quantum physical world-view) considered the most elegant presentation of the theory at that time[2]. One characteristic of this formulation is that the observables of position and momentum are truly treated equally so that an intrinsic phase-space approach seems a natural course to be taken. In fact, we may distinguish at least two different quantum mechanical approaches to the structure of the quantum phase space: The Weyl-Wigner (WW) formalism and the advent of the theory of Coherent States (CS). The Weyl-Wigner formalism has had many applications ranging from the discussion of the Classical/Quantum Mechanical transition and quantum chaos to signal analysis[3,4]. The Coherent State formalism had a profound impact on Quantum Optics and during the course of time has found applications in diverse areas such as geometric quantization, wavelet and harmonic analysis [5]. In this chapter we present a compact review of these formalisms (with also a more intrinsic and coordinate independent notation) towards some non-standard and up-to-date applications such as modular variables and weak values.

id: 1212.5349
title: Approximate analytical solutions of Dirac Equation with spin and pseudo spin symmetries for the diatomic molecular potentials plus a tensor term with any angular momentum
authors: Huseyin Akcay, Ramazan Sever
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5349
abstract: Approximate analytical solutions of the Dirac equation are obtained for some diatomic molecular potentials plus a tensor interaction with spin and pseudospin symmetries with any angular momentum. We find the energy eigenvalue equations in the closed form and the spinor wave functions by using an algebraic method. We also perform numerical calculations for the P\"oschl-Teller potential to show the effect of the tensor interaction. Our results are consistent with ones obtained before.

id: 1212.5366
title: Entanglement-assisted scheme for nondemolition detection of the presence of a single photon
authors: Marek Bula, Karol Bartkiewicz, Anton¨ªn ?ernoch, Karel Lemr
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 033826 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5366
abstract: In this paper, we propose a resources-optimal linear-optical scheme for quantum nondemolition detection of single-photon presence. By measuring the state of ancillary photons, the presence of a photon in signal mode is revealed with a success probability of 1/2 without any disturbance to its state. We also show how to tune the setup to perform quantum nondemolition measurement of the signal photon state, and we provide tradeoff between the extracted information and the signal state disturbance. Moreover, the optimality of resources and methods by which to increase the success probability are discussed.

id: 1212.5463
title: Displacement-enhanced entanglement distillation of single-mode-squeezed entangled states
authors: Anders Tipsmark, Jonas S. Neergaard-Nielsen, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 11 pages; added material on quadrature variance and the influence of loss for v2
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 6, pp. 6670-6680 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5463
abstract: It has been shown that entanglement distillation of Gaussian entangled states by means of local photon subtraction can be improved by local Gaussian transformations. Here we show that a similar effect can be expected for the distillation of an asymmetric Gaussian entangled state that is produced by a single squeezed beam. We show that for low initial entanglement, our largely simplified protocol generates more entanglement than previous proposed protocols. Furthermore, we show that the distillation scheme also works efficiently on decohered entangled states as well as with a practical photon subtraction setup.

id: 1212.5479
title: Thermal Casimir force between nanostructured surfaces
authors: R. Gu¨¦rout, J. Lussange, H. B. Chan, A. Lambrecht, S. Reynaud
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052514 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5479
abstract: We present detailed calculations for the Casimir force between a plane and a nanostructured surface at finite temperature in the framework of the scattering theory. We then study numerically the effect of finite temperature as a function of the grating parameters and the separation distance. We also infer non-trivial geometrical effects on the Casimir interaction via a comparison with the proximity force approximation. Finally, we compare our calculations with data from experiments performed with nanostructured surfaces.

id: 1212.5501
title: State-independent contextuality with identical particles
authors: Adan Cabello, Marcelo Terra Cunha
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87 (2013) 022126
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5501
abstract: It has been recently conjectured that the state-independency of quantum contextuality may be lost when the indistinguishability of identical particles is taken into account. Here, we show that quantum state-independent contextuality exists for any system of more than one identical bosonic qudits, and for most systems of fermionic qudits. The only exception is the case of d fermionic qudits, since there the dimension of the antisymmetric subspace is 1, which is insufficient for contextuality. For all the other cases, either the symmetry precludes the existence of physical states, or we provide an explicit method to produce quantum state-independent contextual correlations.

id: 1212.5502
title: Bosonic bunching does not reveal stronger quantum contextuality
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5502
abstract: In a recent paper, Kurzynski et al. present a gedanken experiment that, they claim, violates the Klyachko-Can-Binicioglu-Shumovsky (KCBS) noncontextuality (NC) inequality beyond its maximum quantum value, and a similar experiment that, they claim, violates Specker's NC inequality, which is not violated by quantum mechanics. We argue that these claims are baseless, since these experiments do not satisfy the conditions required for any observation of contextuality through the experimental violation of a NC inequality. Moreover, the physical events in the experiments of Kurzynski et al. do not have the relationships of exclusivity which the authors assume they have.

id: 1212.5530
title: Efficient high-dimensional entanglement imaging with a compressive sensing, double-pixel camera
authors: Gregory A. Howland, John C. Howell
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 011013 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5530
abstract: We implement a double-pixel, compressive sensing camera to efficiently characterize, at high resolution, the spatially entangled fields produced by spontaneous parametric downconversion. This technique leverages sparsity in spatial correlations between entangled photons to improve acquisition times over raster-scanning by a scaling factor up to n^2/log(n) for n-dimensional images. We image at resolutions up to 1024 dimensions per detector and demonstrate a channel capacity of 8.4 bits per photon. By comparing the classical mutual information in conjugate bases, we violate an entropic Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen separability criterion for all measured resolutions. More broadly, our result indicates compressive sensing can be especially effective for higher-order measurements on correlated systems.

id: 1212.5535
title: Stochastic Methods and Dynamical Wave-function Collapse
authors: Angelo Bassi, Kinjalk Lochan, Seema Satin, Tejinder P. Singh, Hendrik Ulbricht
comments: 17 pages, supplemental material to arXiv:1204.4325 [quant-ph], separated from original review article to meet Rev. Mod. Phys. page limit requirement
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5535
abstract: This brief article reviews stochastic processes as relevant to dynamical models of wave-function collapse, and is supplemental material for the review article arXiv:1204.4325

id: 1212.5571
title: A positive formalism for quantum theory in the general boundary formulation
authors: Robert Oeckl
comments: 29 pages, LaTeX + AMS; v2: minor modifications and corrections, references updated, Found. Phys. 2013
journal: Found. Phys. 43 (2013) 1206-1232
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5571
abstract: We introduce a new "positive formalism" for encoding quantum theories in the general boundary formulation, somewhat analogous to the mixed state formalism of the standard formulation. This makes the probability interpretation more natural and elegant, eliminates operationally irrelevant structure and opens the general boundary formulation to quantum information theory.

id: 1212.5628
title: Rapid laser-free ion cooling by controlled collision
authors: Hoi-Kwan Lau
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. (v2) Substantially re-written with corrected theory and more details
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 063401 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5628
abstract: I propose a method to remove the axial motional excitation from an ion qubit within a few oscillation periods of a harmonic trap. The principle is to prepare another coolant ion in its motional ground state, and then apply a phonon beam splitter to swap the motional state between the ions without affecting the internal state. This method requires only the precise control of the trapping potential, thus its performance does not suffer from the limitations of current laser-cooling schemes. With sufficient coolant ions pre-prepared, this method can rapidly re-cool ion qubits during quantum information processing.

id: 1212.5675
title: Entanglement of Multipartite Fermionic Coherent States for Pseudo Hermitian Hamiltonians
authors: G. Najarbashi, M. A. Fasihi, M. Nakahara, F. Mirmasoudi, S. Mirzaei
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5675
abstract: In this paper the entanglement of multi-qubit fermionic pseudo Hermitian coherent states (FPHCS) described by anticommutative Grassmann numbers is studied. The pseudo-Hermitian versions of the well known maximally entangled pure states such as Bell and GHZ, W and biseparable states are introduced through integrating over the tensor products of FPHCSs with suitable choice of Grassmannian weight functions. Meanwhile as an illustration, the method is applied to tensor product of 2 and 3 qubit pseudo Hermitian systems. Then the measures of concurrence and average entropy are applied to quantify the entanglement of the pseudo two and three qubit states respectively.

id: 1212.5676
title: Quantum reflection of antihydrogen from Casimir potential above matter slabs
authors: G. Dufour, A. G¨¦rardin, R. Gu¨¦rout, A. Lambrecht, V.V. Nesvizhevsky, S. Reynaud, A.Yu. Voronin
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87 (2013) 012901
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5676
abstract: We study quantum reflection of antihydrogen atoms from matter slabs due to the van der Waals/Casimir-Polder (vdW/CP) potential. By taking into account the specificities of antihydrogen and the optical properties and width of the slabs we calculate realistic estimates for the potential and quantum reflection amplitudes. Next we discuss the paradoxical result of larger reflection coefficients estimated for weaker potentials in terms of the Schwarzian derivative. We analyze the limiting case of reflections at small energies, which are characterized by a scattering length and have interesting applications for trapping and guiding antihydrogen using material walls.

id: 1212.5680
title: Nonlocal Non-Markovian Effects in Dephasing Environments
authors: Dong Xie, An Min Wang
comments: 
journal: Chin. Phys. B Vol. 23, No. 4 (2014) 040302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5680
abstract: We study the nonlocal non-Markovian effects through local interactions between two subsystems and the corresponding two environments. It has been found that the initial correlations between two environments can turn a Markovian to a non-Markovian regime with the extra control on the local interaction time. We further research the nonlocal non-Markovian effects from two situations: without extra control, the nonlocal non-Markovian effects only appear under the condition that two local dynamics are non-Markovian-non-Markovian(both of two local dynamics are non-Markovian), or Markovian-non-Markovian, never appear under the condition of Markovian-Markovian; with extra control, the nonlocal non-Markovian effects can occur under the condition of Markovian-Markovian. It shows that the correlations between two environments has an upper bound: only making a flow of information from the environment back to the global system begin finitely earlier than that back to any one of two local systems, not infinitely. Then, due to observing that the classical correlations between two environments have the same function as the quantum correlations, we advise two special ways to distribute classical correlations between two environments without initial correlations. Finally, from numerical solutions in the spin star configuration we obtain that the self-correlation(internal correlation) of each environment promotes the nonlocal non-Markovian effects.

id: 1212.5687
title: On the Construction of Nonbinary Quantum BCH Codes
authors: Giuliano G. La Guardia
comments: 
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 60(3), 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5687
abstract: Four quantum code constructions generating several new families of good nonbinary quantum nonprimitive non-narrow-sense Bose-Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem (BCH) codes are presented in this paper. The first two ones are based on Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) construction derived from two nonprimitive BCH codes, not necessarily self-orthogonal. The third one is based on nonbinary Steane's enlargement of CSS codes applied to suitable sub-families of nonprimitive non-narrow-sense BCH codes. The fourth construction is derived from suitable sub-families of Hermitian self-orthogonal nonprimitive non-narrow-sense BCH codes. These constructions generate new families of quantum BCH codes whose parameters are better than the ones available in the literature.

id: 1212.5688
title: Collective effects of multi-scatterer on coherent propagation of photon in a two dimensional network
authors: D. Z. Xu, Yong Li, C. P. Sun, Peng Zhang
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013832 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5688
abstract: We study the collective phenomenon in the scattering of a single-photon by one or two layers of two-level atoms. By modeling the photon dispersion with a two-dimensional (2D) coupled cavity array, we analytically derive the scattering probability of a single-photon. It is discovered that in the case with one layer of atoms, the atomic collective excitation leads to a shift for the single-photon scattering spectrum. Such a shift is related to the density of the atomic ensemble. For the case with two layers of atoms, an inter-layer effective coupling appears and induces an electromagnetic-induced-transparency-like phenomenon for the single-photon scattering. Our result provides a new scheme of analyzing photon coherent transport in 2D and may help to understand the current experiments about the high energy photon scattering by the layer nuclei material.

id: 1212.5699
title: Tunneling-induced high efficiency four-wave mixing in an asymmetric quantum wells
authors: Hui Sun, Shuangli Fan, Hongjun Zhang, Shangqing Gong
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5699
abstract: An asymmetric double quantum wells (QWs) structure with resonant tunneling is suggested to achieve high efficient four wave mixing (FWM). We analytically demonstrate that the resonant tunneling can induce high efficient mixing wave in such a semiconductor structure with a low light pump wave. In particular, the FWM conversion efficiency can be enhanced dramatically in the vicinity of the center frequency. This interesting scheme may be used to generate coherent long-wavelength radiation in solid-state system.

id: 1212.5700
title: Bayesian parameter inference from continuously monitored quantum systems
authors: S?ren Gammelmark, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5700
abstract: We review the introduction of likelihood functions and Fisher information in classical estimation theory, and we show how they can be defined in a very similar manner within quantum measurement theory. We show that the stochastic master equations describing the dynamics of a quantum system subject to a definite set of measurements provides likelihood functions for unknown parameters in the system dynamics, and we show that the estimation error, given by the Fisher information, can be identified by stochastic master equation simulations. For large parameter spaces we describe and illustrate the efficient use of Markov Chain Monte Carlo sampling of the likelihood function.

id: 1212.5713
title: A multi-site variational master equation approach to dissipative energy transfer
authors: Felix A. Pollock, Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Brendon W. Lovett, Erik M. Gauger, Ahsan Nazir
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures. v3: A few clarifications added to the text and figures, some other stylistic edits. Published in NJP
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 075018
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5713
abstract: Unitary transformations can allow one to study open quantum systems in situations for which standard, weak-coupling type approximations are not valid. We develop here an extension of the variational (polaron) transformation approach to open system dynamics, which applies to arbitrarily large exciton transport networks with local environments. After deriving a time-local master equation in the transformed frame, we go on to compare the population dynamics predicted using our technique with other established master equations. The variational frame dynamics are found to agree with both weak coupling and full polaron master equations in their respective regions of validity. In parameter regimes considered difficult for these methods, the dynamics predicted by our technique are found to interpolate between the two. The variational method thus gives insight, across a broad range of parameters, into the competition between coherent and incoherent processes in determining the dynamical behaviour of energy transfer networks.

id: 1212.5722
title: Observable consequences of a hypothetical transient deviation from Quantum Mechanics
authors: Alejandro A. Hnilo
comments: 10 pages plus 5 pages of additional material to help checking the calculations, 6 figures. It is the complete version of the communication with the same title presented at the conference Quantum Optics VI held in Piriapolis, Uruguay, 12 to 15 November, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5722
abstract: The conflict between Quantum Mechanics (QM) and the intuitive concepts of Locality and Realism (LR) is manifest in the correlation between measurements performed in remote regions of a spatially spread entangled state. In this paper, it is hypothesized that transient deviations (from the values predicted by QM) occur if the correlation is measured in a time shorter than L/c, where L is the spatial spread of the entangled state and c is the speed of light. In this way, the conflict is solved by changing QM minimally. Under general assumptions, it is obtained a mathematical model of the process that reproduces the QM value after a time longer than L/c has elapsed. One of the predictions of this model is that oscillations of the rate of coincidences should exist, with a main frequency lower than c/4L. An experiment able to reveal these oscillations is shown to be accessible, by placing stations at about 5 Km and reaching a coincidence rate about 3E5 1/s (a value already obtained at the laboratory scale). This means a test of QM vs LR of a completely new type, with several practical and theoretical advantages.

id: 1212.5819
title: Fidelity and purity of quantum electrical circuit states and quantum tomograms
authors: Olga V. Man'ko
comments: the paper submitted for publication in Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5819
abstract: Review of the probability representation of quantum mechanics and the symplectic tomography approach are presented. The examples of Gaussian states of nanoelectric circuit, Josephson junction, and two interacting high-quality resonant circuits are considered. The Shannon entropy, quantum information, fidelity, and purity of quantum states in the tomographic representation of quantum mechanics are studied.

id: 1212.5821
title: Quantum walks as massless Dirac Fermions in curved Space-Time
authors: Di Molfetta Giuseppe, Fabrice Debbasch, Marc E Brachet
comments: Accepted as a regular article in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5821
abstract: A particular family of time- and space-dependent discrete-time quantum walks (QWs) is considered in one dimensional physical space. The continuous limit of these walks is defined through a new procedure and computed in full detail. In this limit, the walks coincide with the propagation of a massless Dirac fermion in an arbitrary gravitational field. A QW mimicking the radial propagation of a fermion outside and inside the event horizon of a Schwarzschild black hole is explicitly constructed and simulated numerically. Finally, the limiting procedure and the main result itself are carefully discussed.

id: 1212.5822
title: Photon-number tomography and fidelity
authors: O. V. Man'ko
comments: the paper is submitted for publication in AIP Conference Series
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5822
abstract: The scheme of photon-number tomography is discussed in the framework of star-product quantization. The connection of dual quantization scheme and observables is reviewed. The quantizer and dequantizer operators and kernels of star product of tomograms in photon-number tomography scheme and its dual one are presented in explicit form. The fidelity and state purity are discussed in photon{number tomographic scheme, and the expressions for fidelity and purity are obtained in the form of integral of the product of two photon-number tomograms with integral kernel which is presented in explicit form. The properties of quantumness are discussed in terms of inequalities on state photon{number tomograms.

id: 1212.5825
title: Characterization of high-dimensional entangled systems via mutually unbiased measurements
authors: D. Giovannini, J. Romero, J. Leach, A. Dudley, A. Forbes, M. J. Padgett
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 110:143601, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5825
abstract: Mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) play a key role in many protocols in quantum science, such as quantum key distribution. However, defining MUBs for arbitrary high-dimensional systems is theoretically difficult, and measurements in such bases can be hard to implement. We show experimentally that efficient quantum state reconstruction of a high-dimensional multi-partite quantum system can be performed by considering only the MUBs of the individual parts. The state spaces of the individual subsystems are always smaller than the state space of the composite system. Thus, the benefit of this method is that MUBs need to be defined for the small Hilbert spaces of the subsystems rather than for the large space of the overall system. This becomes especially relevant where the definition or measurement of MUBs for the overall system is challenging. We illustrate this approach by implementing measurements for a high-dimensional system consisting of two photons entangled in the orbital angular momentum (OAM) degree of freedom, and we reconstruct the state of this system for dimensions of the individual photons from d=2 to 5.

id: 1212.5864
title: Vacuum Rabi oscillation induced by virtual photons in the ultrastrong coupling regime
authors: C. K. Law
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5864
abstract: We present an interaction scheme that exhibits a dynamical consequence of virtual photons carried by a vacuum-field dressed two-level atom in the ultrastrong coupling regime. We show that, with the aid of an external driving field, virtual photons provide a transition matrix element that enables the atom to evolve coherently and reversibly to an auxiliary level accompanied by the emission of a real photon. The process corresponds to a type of vacuum Rabi oscillation, and we show that the effective vacuum Rabi frequency is proportional to the amplitude of a single virtual photon in the ground state. Therefore the interaction scheme could serve as a probe of ground state structures in the ultrastrong coupling regime.

id: 1212.5933
title: Necessary and sufficient conditions for state-independent measurement contextual scenarios
authors: Ravishankar Ramanathan, Pawel Horodecki
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 040404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5933
abstract: The problem of identifying measurement scenarios capable of revealing state-independent contextuality in a given Hilbert space dimension is considered. We begin by showing that for any given dimension $d$ and any measurement scenario consisting of projective measurements, (i) the measure of contextuality of a quantum state is entirely determined by its spectrum, so that pure and maximally mixed states represent the two extremes of contextual behavior, and that (ii) state-independent contextuality is equivalent to the contextuality of the maximally mixed state up to a global unitary transformation. We then derive a necessary and sufficient condition for a measurement scenario represented by an orthogonality graph to reveal state-independent contextuality. This condition is given in terms of the fractional chromatic number of the graph $\chi_f(G)$ and is shown to identify all state-independent contextual measurement scenarios including those that go beyond the original Kochen-Specker paradigm \cite{Yu-Oh}.

id: 1212.5984
title: Disorder induced localization and enhancement of entanglement in one- and two-dimensional quantum walks
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar
comments: 13 Pages, 6 Figures, appendix included in the revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5984
abstract: The time evolution of one- and two-dimensional discrete-time quantum walk with increase in disorder is studied. We use spatial, temporal and spatio-temporal broken periodicity of the unitary evolution as disorder to mimic the effect of disordered/random medium in our study. Disorder induces a dramatic change in the interference pattern leading to localization of the quantum walks in one- and two-dimensions. Spatial disorder results in the decreases of the particle and position entanglement in one-dimension and counter intuitively, an enhancement in entanglement with temporal and spatio-temporal disorder is seen. The study signifies that the Anderson localization of quantum state without compromising on the degree of entanglement could be implement in a large variety of physical settings where quantum walks has been realized. The study presented here could make it feasible to explore, theoretically and experimentally the interplay between disorder and entanglement. This also brings up a variety of intriguing questions relating to the negative and positive implications on algorithmic and other applications.

id: 1212.6003
title: Quantum superresolution in fluorescence microscopy
authors: O. Schwartz, J. M. Levitt, R. Tenne, S. Itzhakov, Z. Deutsch, D. Oron
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6003
abstract: The optical diffraction limit, formulated by Abbe 140 years ago, imposes a bound on imaging resolution in classical optics. Over the last twenty years, many theoretical schemes have been presented for overcoming the diffraction barrier in optical imaging using quantum properties of light. An experimental realization of sub-diffraction limited quantum imaging has, however, remained elusive. Here, we demonstrate a quantum imaging method taking advantage of non-classical light naturally produced in fluorescence microscopy due to photon antibunching, a fundamentally quantum phenomenon prohibiting simultaneous emission of multiple photons. Using a photon counting digital camera, we detect antibunching-induced second and third order intensity correlations and perform sub-diffraction limited quantum imaging in a standard wide-field fluorescence microscope.

id: 1212.6021
title: Sudden Change of Quantum Discord under Single Qubit Noise
authors: Li-Xing Jia, Bo Li, R.-H. Yue, Heng Fan
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 11, 1350048 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6021
abstract: We show that the sudden change of quantum correlation can occur even when only one part of the composite entangled state is exposed to a noisy environment. Our results are illustrated through the action of different noisy environments individually on a single qubit of quantum system. Composite noise on the whole of the quantum system is thus not the necessarily condition for the occurrence of sudden transition for quantum correlation.

id: 1212.6063
title: Cavity QED simulation of qubit-oscillator dynamics in the ultrastrong coupling regime
authors: Arne L. Grimsmo, Scott Parkins
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 033814 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6063
abstract: We propose a quantum simulation of a two-level atom coupled to a single mode of the electromagnetic field in the ultrastrong-coupling regime based upon resonant Raman transitions in an atom interacting with a high finesse optical cavity mode. We show by numerical simulation the possibility of realizing the scheme with a single rubidium atom, in which two hyperfine ground states make up the effective two-level system, and for cavity QED parameters that should be achievable with, for example, microtoroidal whispering-gallery-mode resonators. Our system also enables simulation of a generalized model in which a nonlinear coupling between the atomic inversion and the cavity photon number occurs on an equal footing with the (ultrastrong) dipole coupling and can give rise to critical-type behavior even at the single-atom level. Our model takes account of dissipation, and we pay particular attention to observables that would be readily observable in the output from the system.

id: 1212.6135
title: Entropy production in open quantum systems: exactly solvable qubit models
authors: V. G. Morozov, G. R?pke
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Condens. Matter Phys., 2012, vol. 15, No. 4, 43004:1-9
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6135
abstract: We present analytical results for the time-dependent information entropy in exactly solvable two-state (qubit) models. The first model describes dephasing (decoherence) in a qubit coupled to a bath of harmonic oscillators. The entropy production for this model in the regimes of "complete" and "incomplete" decoherence is discussed. As another example, we consider the damped Jaynes-Cummings model describing a spontaneous decay of a two-level system into the field vacuum. It is shown that, for all strengths of coupling, the open system passes through the mixed state with the maximum information entropy.

id: 1212.6136
title: Heralded entanglement between solid-state qubits separated by 3 meters
authors: H. Bernien, B. Hensen, W. Pfaff, G. Koolstra, M. S. Blok, L. Robledo, T. H. Taminiau, M. Markham, D. J. Twitchen, L. Childress, R. Hanson
comments: 
journal: Nature 497, 86-90 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6136
abstract: Quantum entanglement between spatially separated objects is one of the most intriguing phenomena in physics. The outcomes of independent measurements on entangled objects show correlations that cannot be explained by classical physics. Besides being of fundamental interest, entanglement is a unique resource for quantum information processing and communication. Entangled qubits can be used to establish private information or implement quantum logical gates. Such capabilities are particularly useful when the entangled qubits are spatially separated, opening the opportunity to create highly connected quantum networks or extend quantum cryptography to long distances. Here we present a key experiment towards the realization of long-distance quantum networks with solid-state quantum registers. We have entangled two electron spin qubits in diamond that are separated by a three-meter distance. We establish this entanglement using a robust protocol based on local creation of spin-photon entanglement and a subsequent joint measurement of the photons. Detection of the photons heralds the projection of the spin qubits onto an entangled state. We verify the resulting non-local quantum correlations by performing single-shot readout on the qubits in different bases. The long-distance entanglement reported here can be combined with recently achieved initialization, readout and entanglement operations on local long-lived nuclear spin registers, enabling deterministic long-distance teleportation, quantum repeaters and extended quantum networks.

id: 1212.6163
title: Computing complexity measures for quantum states based on exponential families
authors: S?nke Niekamp, Tobias Galla, Matthias Kleinmann, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 125301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6163
abstract: Given a multiparticle quantum state, one may ask whether it can be represented as a thermal state of some Hamiltonian with k-particle interactions only. The distance from the exponential family defined by these thermal states can be considered as a measure of complexity of a given state. We investigate the resulting optimization problem and show how symmetries can be exploited to simplify the task of finding the nearest thermal state in a given exponential family. We also present an algorithm for the computation of the complexity measure and consider specific examples to demonstrate its applicability.

id: 1212.6181
title: A circuit QED architecture with current-biased flux qubits
authors: Mun Dae Kim
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, some typos are revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6181
abstract: We theoretically study a circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED) architecture with current-biased flux qubits. The qubit is coupled to the transmission line resonator by a bias current originating from the current mode of the resonator. Ultrastrong coupling regime can be obtained by varying the capacitance between the qubit and the resonator. We propose a scalable design for the circuit QED with current-biased flux qubits, where the dc-SQUIDs take the role of switching the qubit-resonator coupling. An exact calculation on two-qubit coupling strength in the scalable design shows the transition from ferromagnetic to antiferromagnetic xy-type interaction.

id: 1212.6187
title: Maximally dense coding capable quantum states
authors: Rabindra Nepal, R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4-1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032336 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6187
abstract: A complementarity relation is established between the capacity of multiport classical information transmission via quantum states and multiparty quantum correlation measures for three-qubit pure states. The multiparty quantum correlation measures considered are the generalized geometric measure, the tangle, and the discord monogamy score. The complementarity relation is revealed by the identification of a one-parameter family of pure three-qubit states, which we call the maximally dense coding capable family of states. These states have the maximal multiport dense coding capacity among all three-qubit pure states with an arbitrary fixed amount of the multiparty quantum correlations.

id: 1212.6242
title: Anomalous dynamic back-action in interferometers
authors: Sergey P. Tarabrin, Henning Kaufer, Farid Ya. Khalili, Roman Schnabel, Klemens Hammerer
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. Paper reorganized
journal: Physical Review A 88, 023809 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6242
abstract: We analyze the dynamic optomechanical back-action in signal-recycled Michelson and Michelson-Sagnac interferometers that are operated off dark port. We show that in this case --- and in contrast to the well-studied canonical form of dynamic back-action on dark port --- optical damping in a Michelson-Sagnac interferometer acquires a non-zero value on cavity resonance, and additional stability/instability regions on either side of the resonance, revealing new regimes of cooling/heating of micromechanical oscillators. In a free-mass Michelson interferometer for a certain region of parameters we predict a stable single-carrier optical spring (positive spring and positive damping), which can be utilized for the reduction of quantum noise in future-generation gravitational-wave detectors.

id: 1212.6253
title: Efficient Clifford+T approximation of single-qubit operators
authors: Peter Selinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6253
abstract: We give an efficient randomized algorithm for approximating an arbitrary element of $SU(2)$ by a product of Clifford+$T$ operators, up to any given error threshold $\epsilon>0$. Under a mild hypothesis on the distribution of primes, the algorithm's expected runtime is polynomial in $\log(1/\epsilon)$. If the operator to be approximated is a $z$-rotation, the resulting gate sequence has $T$-count $K+4\log_2(1/\epsilon)$, where $K$ is approximately equal to $10$. We also prove a worst-case lower bound of $K+4\log_2(1/\epsilon)$, where $K=-9$, so that our algorithm is within an additive constant of optimal for certain $z$-rotations. For an arbitrary member of $SU(2)$, we achieve approximations with $T$-count $K+12\log_2(1/\epsilon)$. By contrast, the Solovay-Kitaev algorithm achieves $T$-count $O(\log^c(1/\epsilon))$, where $c$ is approximately $3.97$.

id: 1212.6271
title: Demonstration of Angle Dependent Casimir Force Between Corrugations
authors: A. A. Banishev, J. Wagner, T. Emig, R. Zandi, U. Mohideen
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, Submitted to Physical Review Letters (November 7, 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6271
abstract: The normal Casimir force between a sinusoidally corrugated gold coated plate and a sphere was measured at various angles between the corrugations using an atomic force microscope. A strong dependence on the orientation angle of the corrugation is found. The measured forces were found to deviate from the proximity force approximation and are in agreement with the theory based on the gradient expansion including correlation effects of geometry and material properties. We analyze the role of temperature. The obtained results open new opportunities for control of the Casimir effect in micromechanical systems.

id: 1212.6312
title: QMA-complete problems
authors: Adam D. Bookatz
comments: Updated to be current to Aug 22, 2013
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.14 No.5-6 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6312
abstract: In this paper we give an overview of the quantum computational complexity class QMA and a description of known QMA-complete problems to date. Such problems are believed to be difficult to solve, even with a quantum computer, but have the property that if a purported solution to the problem is given, a quantum computer would easily be able to verify whether it is correct. An attempt has been made to make this paper as self-contained as possible so that it can be accessible to computer scientists, physicists, mathematicians, and quantum chemists. Problems of interest to all of these professions can be found here.

id: 1212.6324
title: The negative probabilities and information gain in weak measurements
authors: Xuanmin Zhu, Qun Wei, Quanhui Liu, Shengjun Wu
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 377 (2013) 2505-2509
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6324
abstract: We study the outcomes in a general measurement with postselection, and derive upper bounds for the pointer readings in weak measurement. Using the idea of weak measurement, we study Hardy's gedanken experiment and show how the "negative probabilities" emerge in weak measurement. By calculating the information gain of the measuring device about which path the particles pass through, we show that the "negative probabilities" only emerge for cases when the information gain is little due to very weak coupling between the measuring device and the particles. When the coupling strength increases, we can unambiguously determine whether a particle passes through a given path every time, hence the average shifts always represent true probabilities, and the strange "negatives probabilities" disappear.

id: 1212.6335
title: Shortcuts to adiabaticity by superadiabatic iterations
authors: S. Ib¨¢?ez, Xi Chen, J. G. Muga
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6335
abstract: Different techniques to speed up quantum adiabatic processes are currently being explored for applications in atomic, molecular and optical physics, such as transport, cooling and expansions, wavepacket splitting, or internal state control. Here we examine the capabilities of superadiabatic iterations to produce a sequence of shortcuts to adiabaticity. The general formalism is worked out as well as examples for population inversion in a two-level system.

id: 1212.6343
title: Shortcuts to adiabaticity
authors: E. Torrontegui, S. Ib¨¢?ez, S. Mart¨ª nez-Garaot, M. Modugno, A. del Campo, D. Gu¨¦ry-Odelin, A. Ruschhaupt, Xi Chen, J. G. Muga
comments: 54 pages, 1 figure
journal: Adv. At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 62, 117-169 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6343
abstract: Quantum adiabatic processes -that keep constant the populations in the instantaneous eigenbasis of a time-dependent Hamiltonian- are very useful to prepare and manipulate states, but take typically a long time. This is often problematic because decoherence and noise may spoil the desired final state, or because some applications require many repetitions. "Shortcuts to adiabaticity" are alternative fast processes which reproduce the same final populations, or even the same final state, as the adiabatic process in a finite, shorter time. Since adiabatic processes are ubiquitous, the shortcuts span a broad range of applications in atomic, molecular and optical physics, such as fast transport of ions or neutral atoms, internal population control and state preparation (for nuclear magnetic resonance or quantum information), cold atom expansions and other manipulations, cooling cycles, wavepacket splitting, and many-body state engineering or correlations microscopy. Shortcuts are also relevant to clarify fundamental questions such as a precise quantification of the third principle of thermodynamics and quantum speed limits. We review different theoretical techniques proposed to engineer the shortcuts, the experimental results, and the prospects.

id: 1212.6378
title: Separability of qubit-qudit quantum states with strong positive partial transposes
authors: Kil-Chan Ha
comments: 3 pages
journal: Physical Review A, 87 (2), 024301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6378
abstract: We show that all $2\otimes 4$ states with strong positive partial transposes (SPPT) are separable. We also construct a family of $2\otimes 5$ entangled SPPT states, so the conjecture on the separability of SPPT states are completely settled. In addition, we clarify the relation between the set of all $2\otimes d$ separable states and the set of all $2\otimes d$ SPPT states for the case of $d=3,4$.

id: 1212.6416
title: Coherent Phase Control in Closed and Open Quantum Systems: A General Master Equation Approach
authors: Leonardo A. Pachon, Li Yu, Paul Brumer
comments: 11 pages. It matches the published version
journal: Faraday Discuss. 163, 485 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6416
abstract: The underlying mechanisms for one photon phase control are revealed through a master equation approach. Specifically, two mechanisms are identified, one operating on the laser time scale and the other on the time scale of the system-bath interaction. The effect of the secular and non-secular Markovian approximations are carefully examined.

id: 1212.6432
title: Topologically protected strongly-correlated states of photons
authors: Matou? Ringel, Mikhail Pletyukhov, Vladimir Gritsev
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 113030
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6432
abstract: Hybrid photonic nanostructures allow the engineering of novel interesting states of light. One recent example is topological photonic crystals where a nontrivial Berry phase of the photonic band structure gives rise to topologically protected unidirectionally-propagating (chiral) edge states of photons. Here we demonstrate that by coupling an array of emitters to the chiral photonic edge state one can create strongly correlated states of photons in a highly controllable way. These are topologically protected and have a number of remarkable universal properties: The outcome of scattering does not depend on the positions of emitters and is given only by universal numbers, the zeroes of Laguerre polynomials; two-photon correlation functions manifest a well-pronounced even-odd effect with respect to the number of emitters, and the result of scattering is robust with respect to fluctuations in the emitters' transition frequencies.

id: 1212.6452
title: A control protocol of finite dimensional quantum systems using square pules
authors: Jianju Tang, H. C. Fu
comments: 14 pages, 1 fugure. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1212.2279
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6452
abstract: The control protocols of two types of finite dimensional quantum systems are proposed. The feasibility of each protocol is possible and an arbitrary target state can be achieved from initial state by a constant field. The control parameters which are time periods of interaction between systems and control fields in each cycles are connected with the probability amplitudes of target states via trigonometric functions and can be determined analytically.

id: 1212.6506
title: Quantum temporal probabilities in tunneling systems
authors: Charis Anastopoulos, Ntina Savvidou
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures. This version, merging this article with arXiv:1212.6508, will appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 336, 281 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6506
abstract: We study the temporal aspects of quantum tunneling as manifested in time-of-arrival experiments in which the detected particle tunnels through a potential barrier. In particular, we present a general method for constructing temporal probabilities in tunneling systems that (i) defines `classical' time observables for quantum systems and (ii) applies to relativistic particles interacting through quantum fields. We show that the relevant probabilities are defined in terms of specific correlations functions of the quantum field associated with tunneling particles. We construct a probability distribution with respect to the time of particle detection that contains all information about the temporal aspects of the tunneling process. In specific cases, this probability distribution leads to the definition of a delay time that, for parity-symmetric potentials, reduces to the phase time of Bohm and Wigner. We apply our results to piecewise constant potentials, by deriving the appropriate junction conditions on the points of discontinuity. For the double square potential, in particular, we demonstrate the existence of (at least) two physically relevant time parameters, the delay time and a decay rate that describes the escape of particles trapped in the inter-barrier region. Finally, we propose a resolution to the paradox of apparent superluminal velocities for tunneling particles. We demonstrate that the idea of faster-than-light speeds in tunneling follows from an inadmissible use of classical reasoning in the description of quantum systems.

id: 1212.6508
title: Quantum temporal probabilities in tunneling systems: II. No faster-than-light signals are possible in tunneling
authors: Charis Anastopoulos, Ntina Savvidou
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6508
abstract: In this article, we propose a resolution to the paradox of apparent superluminal velocities for tunneling particles, by a careful treatment of temporal observables in quantum theory and through a precise application of the duality between particles and waves. To this end, we employ a new method for constructing probabilities associated to quantum time measurements that provides an explicit link between the tunneling time of particles and the associated quantum fields. We demonstrate that the idea of faster-than-light speeds in tunneling follows from an inadmissible use of classical reasoning in the description of quantum systems. Our results suggest that direct measurements of the transit time in tunneling could provide a new testing ground for the predictions of quantum theory versus local hidden-variables theories.

id: 1212.6523
title: A quantum algorithm for obtaining the lowest eigenstate of a Hamiltonian assisted with an ancillary qubit system
authors: Jeongho Bang, Seung-Woo Lee, Chang-Woo Lee, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures. To be appeared in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing 14, 103 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6523
abstract: We propose a quantum algorithm to obtain the lowest eigenstate of any Hamiltonian simulated by a quantum computer. The proposed algorithm begins with an arbitrary initial state of the simulated system. A finite series of transforms is iteratively applied to the initial state assisted with an ancillary qubit. The fraction of the lowest eigenstate in the initial state is then amplified up to $\simeq 1$. We prove that our algorithm can faithfully work for any arbitrary Hamiltonian in the theoretical analysis. Numerical analyses are also carried out. We firstly provide a numerical proof-of-principle demonstration with a simple Hamiltonian in order to compare our scheme with the so-called "Demon-like algorithmic cooling (DLAC)", recently proposed in [Nature Photonics 8, 113 (2014)]. The result shows a good agreement with our theoretical analysis, exhibiting the comparable behavior to the best "cooling" with the DLAC method. We then consider a random Hamiltonian model for further analysis of our algorithm. By numerical simulations, we show that the total number $n_c$ of iterations is proportional to $\simeq {\cal O}(D^{-1}\epsilon^{-0.19})$, where $D$ is the difference between the two lowest eigenvalues, and $\epsilon$ is an error defined as the probability that the finally obtained system state is in an unexpected (i.e. not the lowest) eigenstate.

id: 1212.6589
title: Fluctuation theorems for quantum processes
authors: Tameem Albash, Daniel A. Lidar, Milad Marvian, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures. v4: updated to version that appears in PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 032146 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6589
abstract: We present fluctuation theorems and moment generating function equalities for generalized thermodynamic observables and quantum dynamics described by completely positive trace preserving (CPTP) maps, with and without feedback control. Our results include the quantum Jarzynski equality and Crooks fluctuation theorem, and clarify the special role played by the thermodynamic work and thermal equilibrium states in previous studies. We show that for a specific class of generalized measurements, which include projective measurements, unitality replaces microreversibility as the condition for the physicality of the reverse process in our fluctuation theorems. We present an experimental application of our theory to the problem of extracting the system-bath coupling magnitude, which we do for a system of pairs of coupled superconducting flux qubits undergoing quantum annealing.

id: 1212.6703
title: Quantum "hyperbicycle" low-density parity check codes with finite rate
authors: Alexey A. Kovalev, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012311 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6703
abstract: We introduce a "hyperbicycle" ansatz for quantum codes which gives the hypergraph-product (generalized toric) codes by Tillich and Z\'emor and generalized bicycle codes by MacKay et al. as limiting cases. The construction allows for both the lower and the upper bounds on the minimum distance; they scale as a square root of the block length. Many of thus defined codes have finite rate and a limited-weight stabilizer generators, an analog of classical low-density parity check (LDPC) codes. Compared to the hypergraph-product codes, hyperbicycle codes generally have wider range of parameters; in particular, they can have higher rate while preserving the (estimated) error threshold.

id: 1212.6705
title: Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians viewed from Heisenberg equation of motion
authors: Yan-Gang Miao, Zhen-Ming Xu
comments: v1: 8 pages, no figures; v2: clarifications added; v3: 14 pages, title slightly changed, new content added, almost completely rewritten; v4: 18 pages, minor clarification added, conclusion unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6705
abstract: The Heisenberg picture for non-Hermitian but $\eta$-pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian systems is given. Two classes of general non-Hermitian Hamiltonians are proposed, one is non-Hermitian and non-$PT$-symmetric and the other is non-Hermitian but $PT$-symmetric. Their (first order) Heisenberg equations of motion are highly non-trivially complex, however, the corresponding (second order) equations of motion are shown to be real. The real closeness is suggested as a new criterion, based on which the existence of real eigenvalues for the two classes of general non-Hermitian Hamiltonians is determined. The eigenfunctions can be obtained in terms of a similarity transformation. The complementarity and compatibility on the real closeness and the $PT$ symmetry are discussed.

id: 1212.6727
title: Strategies in Symmetric Kolkata Restaurant Problem
authors: Puya Sharif, Hoshang Heydari
comments: 5 Pages. Proceedings of QTRF 6, Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations 6
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6727
abstract: The Quantum Kolkata restaurant problem is a multiple-choice version of the quantum minority game, where a set of n non-communicating players have to chose between one of m choices. A payoff is granted to the players that make a unique choice. It has previously been shown that shared entanglement and quantum operations can aid the players to coordinate their actions and acquire higher payoffs than is possible with classical randomization. In this paper the initial quantum state is expanded to a family of GHZ-type states and strategies are discussed in terms of possible final outcomes. It is shown that the players individually seek outcomes that maximize the collective good.

id: 1212.6746
title: Deterministic quantum teleportation between distant atomic objects
authors: H. Krauter, D. Salart, C. A. Muschik, J. M. Petersen, Heng Shen, T. Fernholz, E. S. Polzik
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 9, 400 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6746
abstract: Quantum teleportation is a key ingredient of quantum networks and a building block for quantum computation. Teleportation between distant material objects using light as the quantum information carrier has been a particularly exciting goal. Here we demonstrate a new element of the quantum teleportation landscape, the deterministic continuous variable (cv) teleportation between distant material objects. The objects are macroscopic atomic ensembles at room temperature. Entanglement required for teleportation is distributed by light propagating from one ensemble to the other. Quantum states encoded in a collective spin state of one ensemble are teleported onto another ensemble using this entanglement and homodyne measurements on light. By implementing process tomography, we demonstrate that the experimental fidelity of the quantum teleportation is higher than that achievable by any classical process. Furthermore, we demonstrate the benefits of deterministic teleportation by teleporting a dynamically changing sequence of spin states from one distant object onto another.

id: 1212.6784
title: On Quantization, the Generalized Schr?dinger Equation and Classical Mechanics
authors: K. R. W. Jones
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6784
abstract: Using a new state-dependent, $\lambda$-deformable, linear functional operator, ${\cal Q}_{\psi}^{\lambda}$, which presents a natural $C^{\infty}$ deformation of quantization, we obtain a uniquely selected non--linear, integro--differential Generalized Schr\"odinger equation. The case ${\cal Q}_{\psi}^{1}$ reproduces linear quantum mechanics, whereas ${\cal Q}_{\psi}^{0}$ admits an exact dynamic, energetic and measurement theoretic {\em reproduction} of classical mechanics. All solutions to the resulting classical wave equation are given and we show that functionally chaotic dynamics exists.

id: 1212.6786
title: The classical Schr?dinger equation
authors: K. R. W. Jones
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6786
abstract: Using a simple geometrical construction based upon the linear action of the Heisenberg--Weyl group we deduce a new nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger equation that provides an exact dynamic and energetic model of any classical system whatsoever, be it integrable, nonintegrable or chaotic. Within our model classical phase space points are represented by equivalence classes of wavefunctions that have identical position and momentum expectation values. Transport of these equivalence classes without dispersion leads to a system of wavefunction dynamics such that the expectation values track classical trajectories {\em precisely\/} for arbitrarily long times. Interestingly, the value of $\hbar$ proves immaterial for the purpose of constructing this alternative representation of classical point mechanics. The new feature which $\hbar$ does mediate concerns a simple embedding of the quantum geometric phase within classical mechanics. We discuss problems of physical interpretation and discover a simple route to recover the ordinary linear Schr\"{o}dinger equation.

id: 1212.6804
title: Geometrical effects on energy transfer in disordered open quantum systems
authors: M. Mohseni, A. Shabani, S. Lloyd, Y. Omar, H. Rabitz
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures. Expanded from the former appendix to arXiv:1104.4812
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 138, 204309 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6804
abstract: We explore various design principles for efficient excitation energy transport in complex quantum systems. We investigate energy transfer efficiency in randomly disordered geometries consisting of up to 20 chromophores to explore spatial and spectral properties of small natural/artificial Light-Harvesting Complexes (LHC). We find significant statistical correlations among highly efficient random structures with respect to ground state properties, excitonic energy gaps, multichromophoric spatial connectivity, and path strengths. These correlations can even exist beyond the optimal regime of environment-assisted quantum transport. For random configurations embedded in spatial dimensions of 30 A and 50 A, we observe that the transport efficiency saturates to its maximum value if the systems contain 7 and 14 chromophores respectively. Remarkably, these optimum values coincide with the number of chlorophylls in (Fenna-Matthews-Olson) FMO protein complex and LHC II monomers, respectively, suggesting a potential natural optimization with respect to chromophoric density.

id: 1212.6946
title: The Entropic Dynamics of Relativistic Quantum Fields
authors: Ariel Caticha
comments: 10 pages. Presented at MaxEnt 2012, The 32nd International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering, (July 15-20, 2012, Garching, Germany)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6946
abstract: The formulation of quantum mechanics within the framework of entropic dynamics is extended to the domain of relativistic quantum fields. The result is a non-dissipative relativistic diffusion in the infinite dimensional space of field configurations. On extending the notion of entropic time to the relativistic regime we find that the field fluctuations provide the clock that sets the scale of duration. We also find that the usual divergences that affect all quantum field theories do not refer to the real values of physical quantities but rather to epistemic quantities invariably associated to unphysical probability distributions such as variances and other measures of uncertainty.

id: 1212.6959
title: Reply to Comment on "Space-Time Crystals of Trapped Ions"
authors: Tongcang Li, Zhe-Xuan Gong, Zhang-Qi Yin, H. T. Quan, Xiaobo Yin, Peng Zhang, L.-M. Duan, Xiang Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6959
abstract: This is a reply to the comment from Patrick Bruno (arXiv:1211.4792) on our paper (Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 163001 (2012)).

id: 1212.6964
title: Practical approximation of single-qubit unitaries by single-qubit quantum Clifford and T circuits
authors: Vadym Kliuchnikov, Dmitri Maslov, Michele Mosca
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6964
abstract: We present an algorithm, along with its implementation that finds T-optimal approximations of single-qubit Z-rotations using quantum circuits consisting of Clifford and T gates. Our algorithm is capable of handling errors in approximation down to size $10^{-15}$, resulting in optimal single-qubit circuit designs required for implementation of scalable quantum algorithms. Our implementation along with the experimental results are available in the public domain.

id: 1212.0061
title: Coulomb interaction signatures in self-assembled lateral quantum dot molecules
authors: Xinran. Zhou, Jihoon. Lee, Gregory. J. Salamo, Miquel. Royo, Juan. I. Climente, Matthew. F. Doty
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0061
abstract: We use photoluminescence spectroscopy to investigate the ground state of single self-assembled InGaAs lateral quantum dot molecules. We apply a voltage along the growth direction that allows us to control the total charge occupancy of the quantum dot molecule. Using a combination of computational modeling and experimental analysis, we assign the observed discrete spectral lines to specific charge distributions. We explain the dynamic processes that lead to these charge configurations through electrical injection and optical generation. Our systemic analysis provides evidence of inter-dot tunneling of electrons as predicted in previous theoretical work.

id: 1212.0067
title: Dynamic control of quantum geometric heat flux in a nonequilibrium spin-boson model
authors: Tian Chen, Xiang-Bin Wang, Jie Ren
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. with updated figures and discussions. See also this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 144303 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0067
abstract: We study the quantum geometric heat flux in the nonequilibrium spin-boson model. By adopting the noninteracting-blip approximation that is able to accommodate the strong system-bath coupling, we show that there exists a nonzero geometric heat flux only when the two-level system is nondegenerate. Moreover, the pumping, no pumping, and dynamic control of geometric heat flux are discussed in detail, compared to the results with Redfield weak-coupling approximation. In particular, the geometric energy transfer induced by modulation of two system-bath couplings is identified, which is exclusive to quantum transport in the strong system-bath coupling regime.

id: 1212.0078
title: Coherent States for Tremblay-Turbiner-Winternitz Potential
authors: Yusuf Sucu, Nuri Unal
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 093, 9 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0078
abstract: In this study, we construct the coherent states for a particle in the Tremblay-Turbiner-Winternitz potential by finding the conserved charge coherent states of the four harmonic oscillators in the polar coordinates. We also derive the energy eigenstates of the potential and show that the center of the coherent states follow the classical orbits of the particle.

id: 1212.0088
title: Glauber coherence of single electron sources
authors: G¨¦raldine Haack, Michael Moskalets, Markus B¨¹ttiker
comments: 4+ pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 201302(R) (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0088
abstract: Recently demonstrated solid state single electron sources generate different quantum states depending on their operation condition. For adiabatic and non-adiabatic sources we determine the Glauber correlation function in terms of the Floquet scattering matrix of the source. The correlation function provides full information on the shape of the state, on its time-dependent amplitude and phase, which makes the coherence properties of single electron states essential for the production of quantum multi-particle states.

id: 1212.0099
title: Quantum kinetics derivation as generalization of the quantum hydrodynamics method
authors: Pavel A. Andreev
comments: 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0099
abstract: We present a new way of quantum kinetic equation derivation. This method appears as a natural generalization of the many-particle quantum hydrodynamic method. Kinetic equations are derived for different system of particles. First of all we consider quantum plasma and pay special attention to the spin evolution. We show that we need a set of two kinetic equations for description of spinning particles. One of these equations is the equation for distribution function, however this equation contains new function, even in the self-consistent field approximation. This is a spin-distribution function introduced in the paper. Therefore we have to derive kinetic equation for spin distribution function evolution, which is presented here and used to construct a closed set of kinetic equations. We also present kinetic equation for system of neutral particles with a short-range interaction in the first order by the interaction radius approximation. We derive a set of kinetic equations for particles having electric dipole moment, this set analogous to the equations set for spinning particles, but it has some differences. As a special topic we find kinetic equations for graphene carriers in the vicinity of the Dirac points. Derived equations, in general case, contain two-particle distribution functions, which take into account contribution of the quantum correlations including the exchange interaction, but we restrict ourself by the self-consistent field approximation to obtain closed kinetic description, in the system of particles with the short-range interaction.

id: 1212.0107
title: On the Foundations of the Theory of Evolution
authors: Diederik Aerts, Stan Bundervoet, Marek Czachor, Bart D'Hooghe, Liane Gabora, Philip Polk, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: In D. Aerts, J. Broekaert, B. D'Hooghe and N. Note (Eds.), Worldviews, Science and Us: Bridging Knowledge and Its Implications for our Perspectives of the World; Singapore, World Scientific (2011)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0107
abstract: Darwinism conceives evolution as a consequence of random variation and natural selection, hence it is based on a materialistic, i.e. matter-based, view of science inspired by classical physics. But matter in itself is considered a very complex notion in modern physics. More specifically, at a microscopic level, matter and energy are no longer retained within their simple form, and quantum mechanical models are proposed wherein potential form is considered in addition to actual form. In this paper we propose an alternative to standard Neodarwinian evolution theory. We suggest that the starting point of evolution theory cannot be limited to actual variation whereupon is selected, but to variation in the potential of entities according to the context. We therefore develop a formalism, referred to as Context driven Actualization of Potential (CAP), which handles potentiality and describes the evolution of entities as an actualization of potential through a reiterated interaction with the context. As in quantum mechanics, lack of knowledge of the entity, its context, or the interaction between context and entity leads to different forms of indeterminism in relation to the state of the entity. This indeterminism generates a non-Kolmogorovian distribution of probabilities that is different from the classical distribution of chance described by Darwinian evolution theory, which stems from a 'actuality focused', i.e. materialistic, view of nature. We also present a quantum evolution game that highlights the main differences arising from our new perspective and shows that it is more fundamental to consider evolution in general, and biological evolution in specific, as a process of actualization of potential induced by context, for which its material reduction is only a special case.

id: 1212.0109
title: Quantum Structure in Competing Lizard Communities
authors: Diederik Aerts, Jan Broekaert, Marek Czachor, Maciej Kuna, Barry Sinervo, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0109
abstract: Almost two decades of research on applications of the mathematical formalism of quantum theory as a modeling tool in domains different from the micro-world has given rise to many successful applications in situations related to human behavior and thought, more specifically in cognitive processes of decision-making and the ways concepts are combined into sentences. In this article, we extend this approach to animal behavior, showing that an analysis of an interactive situation involving a mating competition between certain lizard morphs allows to identify a quantum theoretic structure. More in particular, we show that when this lizard competition is analyzed structurally in the light of a compound entity consisting of subentities, the contextuality provided by the presence of an underlying rock-paper-scissors cyclic dynamics leads to a violation of Bell's inequality, which means it is of a non-classical type. We work out an explicit quantum-mechanical representation in Hilbert space for the lizard situation and show that it faithfully models a set of experimental data collected on three throat-colored morphs of a specific lizard species. Furthermore, we investigate the Hilbert space modeling, and show that the states describing the lizard competitions contain entanglement for each one of the considered confrontations of lizards with different competing strategies, which renders it no longer possible to interpret these states of the competing lizards as compositions of states of the individual lizards.

id: 1212.0223
title: Closed and Open System Dynamics in a Fermionic Chain with a Microscopically Specified Bath: Relaxation and Thermalization
authors: N. Sedlmayr, J. Ren, F. Gebhard, J. Sirker
comments: 4+4 pages, 4+4 figures, as published with new title
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 100406 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0223
abstract: We study thermalization in a one-dimensional quantum system consisting of a noninteracting fermionic chain with each site of the chain coupled to an additional bath site. Using a density matrix renormalization group algorithm we investigate the time evolution of observables in the chain after a quantum quench. For low densities we show that the intermediate time dynamics can be quantitatively described by a system of coupled equations of motion. For higher densities our numerical results show a prethermalization for local observables at intermediate times and a full thermalization to the grand canonical ensemble at long times. For the case of a weak bath-chain coupling we find, in particular, a Fermi momentum distribution in the chain in equilibrium in spite of the seemingly oversimplified bath in our model.

id: 1212.0334
title: A Broader Perspective about Organization and Coherence in Biological Systems
authors: Martin Robert
comments: 6 pages, this essay is based on a contribution to the European Conference on Complex Systems 2012 (ECCS 2012) to be published in Complex Systems Science Archive hosted by Springer Complexity
journal: 
subjects: Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0334
abstract: The implications of large-scale coherence in biological systems and possible links to quantum theory are only beginning to be explored. Whether quantum-like coherent phenomena are relevant, or even possible at all, at the high temperatures of biological systems remains unsettled. Here, we present a broader perspective on biological organization and how quantum-like dynamics and coherence might shape the very fabric from which complex biological systems are organized. Regardless of its exact nature, a unique form of coherence seems apparent at multiple scales in biology and its better characterization may have broad consequences for the understanding of living organisms as complex systems.

id: 1212.0400
title: Reconstruction of the environmental correlation function from single emitter photon statistics: a non-Markovian approach
authors: Faina Shikerman, Lawrence Horwitz, Avi Pe'er
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0400
abstract: We consider the two-level system approximation of a single emitter driven by a continuous laser pump and simultaneously coupled to the electromagnetic vacuum and to a thermal reservoir beyond the Markovian approximation. We discuss the connection between a rigorous microscopic theory and the phenomenological spectral diffusion approach, used to model the interaction of the emitter with the thermal bath, and obtained analytic expressions relating the thermal correlation function to the single emitter photon statistics.

id: 1212.0406
title: Casimir Force between Atomically Thin Gold Films
authors: M. Bostr?m, C. Persson, Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B (2013) 86: 43
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0406
abstract: We have used density functional theory to calculate the anisotropic dielectric functions for ultrathin gold sheets (composed of 1, 3, 6, and 15 atomic layers). Such films are important components in nano-electromechanical systems. When using correct dielectric functions rather than bulk gold dielectric functions we predict an enhanced attractive Casimir-Lifshitz force (at most around 20%) between two atomically thin gold sheets. For thicker sheets the dielectric properties and the corresponding Casimir forces approach those of gold half-spaces. The magnitude of the corrections that we predict should, within the today's level of accuracy in Casimir force measurements, be clearly detectable.

id: 1212.0419
title: Electron shell and the alpha-decay
authors: Sergey Yu. Igashov, Yury M. Tchuvil'sky
comments: 4 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0419
abstract: The ratio of the alpha-decay widths of a bare nucleus and the related atom is calculated. Both the change of the form and thus the penetrability of the potential barrier and the effect of reflection in the classically-allowed region appearing due to the electron shell are taken into account in the calculations of this ratio. The contribution of each of these two effects is of one and the same order of magnitude. For long-lived radioactive samples the values of the total effect turn out to be somewhat below 1 percent.

id: 1212.0431
title: Complex scaling method for three- and four-body scattering above the break-up thresholds
authors: Rimantas Lazauskas, Jaume Carbonell
comments: FB20 conference proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0431
abstract: A formalism based on the complex-scaling method is presented to solve the few particle scattering problem in configuration space using bound state techniques with trivial boundary conditions. Several applications to A=3,4 systems are presented to demonstrate the efficiency of the method in computing elastic as well as break-up reactions with Hamiltonians including both short and long-range interaction.

id: 1212.0477
title: Efimov States of Heavy Impurities in a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: N. T. Zinner
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, final version
journal: EPL, 101 (2013) 60009
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0477
abstract: We consider the problem of two heavy impurity particles embedded in a gas of weakly-interacting light mass bosonic particles in the condensed state. Using the Bogoliubov approach to describe the bosonic gas and the Born-Oppenheimer approximation for the three-body dynamics, we calculate the modification to the heavy-heavy two-body potential due to the presence of the condensate. For the case of resonant interaction between the light bosons and the impurities, we present (semi)-analytical results for the potential in the limit of a large condensate coherence length. In particular, we find a formula for the modification of the Efimov scaling factor due to the presence of a degenerate bosonic gas background.

id: 1212.0502
title: Functional Integration on Constrained Function Spaces I: Foundations
authors: J. LaChapelle
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0502
abstract: Analogy with Bayesian inference is used to formulate constraints within a scheme for functional integration proposed by Cartier and DeWitt-Morette. According to the analogy, functional counterparts of conditional and conjugate probability distributions are introduced for integrators. The analysis leads to some new functional integration tools and methods that can be applied to the study of constrained dynamical systems.

id: 1212.0520
title: A modular framework for randomness extraction based on Trevisan's construction
authors: Wolfgang Mauerer, Christopher Portmann, Volkher B. Scholz
comments: 21 pages, 15 figures. Source code is available under GPLv2+. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Software (cs.MS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0520
abstract: Informally, an extractor delivers perfect randomness from a source that may be far away from the uniform distribution, yet contains some randomness. This task is a crucial ingredient of any attempt to produce perfectly random numbers---required, for instance, by cryptographic protocols, numerical simulations, or randomised computations. Trevisan's extractor raised considerable theoretical interest not only because of its data parsimony compared to other constructions, but particularly because it is secure against quantum adversaries, making it applicable to quantum key distribution. We discuss a modular, extensible and high-performance implementation of the construction based on various building blocks that can be flexibly combined to satisfy the requirements of a wide range of scenarios. Besides quantitatively analysing the properties of many combinations in practical settings, we improve previous theoretical proofs, and give explicit results for non-asymptotic cases. The self-contained description does not assume familiarity with extractors.

id: 1212.0547
title: BEC-BCS crossover and the mobility edge: superfluid-insulator transitions and reentrant superfluidity in disordered Fermi gases
authors: Sarang Gopalakrishnan
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0547
abstract: A superfluid-insulator transition is known to occur in strongly disordered Fermi gases, in both the BCS and BEC regimes; here, we address the properties of this transition across the BEC-BCS crossover. We argue that the critical disorder strength at which superfluidity is lost changes non-monotonically with detuning from Feshbach resonance, and that a reentrant superfluid phase arises for detunings near the fermionic mobility edge. Our analysis of the intermediate regime is quantitatively valid for narrow resonances and near four dimensions, and provides a simple physical picture of this regime, in terms of two distinct but coexisting insulators.

id: 1212.0562
title: Interferometric approach to measuring band topology in 2D optical lattices
authors: Dmitry A. Abanin, Takuya Kitagawa, Immanuel Bloch, Eugene Demler
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 165304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0562
abstract: Recently, optical lattices with non-zero Berry's phases of Bloch bands have been realized. New approaches for measuring Berry's phases and topological properties of bands with experimental tools appropriate for ultracold atoms need to be developed. In this paper, we propose an interferometric method for measuring Berry's phases of two dimensional Bloch bands. The key idea is to use a combination of Ramsey interference and Bloch oscillations to measure Zak phases, i.e. Berry's phases for closed trajectories corresponding to reciprocal lattice vectors. We demonstrate that this technique can be used to measure Berry curvature of Bloch bands, the \pi-Berry's phase of Dirac points, and the first Chern number of topological bands. We discuss several experimentally feasible realizations of this technique, which make it robust against low-frequency magnetic noise.

id: 1212.0567
title: Near-infrared Hong-Ou-Mandel interference on a silicon quantum photonic circuit
authors: Xinan Xu, Zhenda Xie, Jiangjun Zheng, Junlin Liang, Tian Zhong, Mingbin Yu, Serdar Kocaman, Guo-Qiang Lo, Dim-Lee Kwong, Dirk R. Englund, Franco N. C. Wong, Chee Wei Wong
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0567
abstract: Near-infrared Hong-Ou-Mandel quantum interference is observed in silicon nanophotonic directional couplers with raw visibilities on-chip at 90.5%. Spectrally-bright 1557-nm two-photon states are generated in a periodically-poled KTiOPO4 waveguide chip, serving as the entangled photon source and pumped with a self-injection locked laser, for the photon statistical measurements. Efficient four-port coupling in the communications C-band and in the high-index-contrast silicon photonics platform is demonstrated, with matching theoretical predictions of the quantum interference visibility. Constituents for the residual quantum visibility imperfection are examined, supported with theoretical analysis of the sequentially-triggered multipair biphoton contribution and techniques for visibility compensation, towards scalable high-bitrate quantum information processing and communications.

id: 1212.0572
title: Direct Measurement of the Zak phase in Topological Bloch Bands
authors: Marcos Atala, Monika Aidelsburger, Julio T. Barreiro, Dmitry Abanin, Takuya Kitagawa, Eugene Demler, Immanuel Bloch
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 9, 795-800 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0572
abstract: Geometric phases that characterize the topological properties of Bloch bands play a fundamental role in the modern band theory of solids. Here we report on the direct measurement of the geometric phase acquired by cold atoms moving in one-dimensional optical lattices. Using a combination of Bloch oscillations and Ramsey interferometry, we extract the Zak phase - the Berry phase acquired during an adiabatic motion of a particle across the Brillouin zone - which can be viewed as an invariant characterizing the topological properties of the band. For a dimerized optical lattice, which models polyacetylene, we measure a difference of the Zak phase equal to phi_Zak=0.97(2)pi for the two possible polyacetylene phases with different dimerization. This indicates that the two dimerized phases belong to different topological classes, such that for a filled band, domain walls have fractional quantum numbers. Our work establishes a new general approach for probing the topological structure of Bloch bands in optical lattices.

id: 1212.0593
title: Classifying fractionalization: symmetry classification of gapped Z2 spin liquids in two dimensions
authors: Andrew M. Essin, Michael Hermele
comments: 30 pages, 25 figures; v2: Some minor clarifications. References added. v3: New appendix. Clarifications to text. Typos and figures corrected. References updated. v4: Minor error corrected, acknowledgments updated
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 104406 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0593
abstract: We classify distinct types of quantum number fractionalization occurring in two-dimensional topologically ordered phases, focusing in particular on phases with Z2 topological order, that is, on gapped Z2 spin liquids. We find that the fractionalization class of each anyon is an equivalence class of projective representations of the symmetry group, corresponding to elements of the cohomology group H^2(G,Z2). This result leads us to a symmetry classification of gapped Z2 spin liquids, such that two phases in different symmetry classes cannot be connected without breaking symmetry or crossing a phase transition. Symmetry classes are defined by specifying a fractionalization class for each type of anyon. The fusion rules of anyons play a crucial role in determining the symmetry classes. For translation and internal symmetry, braiding statistics plays no role, but can affect the classification when point group symmetries are present. For square lattice space group, time reversal and SO(3) spin rotation symmetry, we find 2,098,176 ~ 2^21 distinct symmetry classes. We give an explicit construction of symmetry classes for square lattice space group symmetry in the toric code model. Via simple examples, we illustrate how information about fractionalization classes can in principle be obtained from the spectrum and quantum numbers of excited states. Moreover, the symmetry class can be partially determined from the quantum numbers of the four degenerate ground states on the torus. We also extend our results to arbitrary Abelian topological orders, and compare our classification with the related projective symmetry group classification of parton mean-field theories. Our results provide a framework for understanding and probing the sharp distinctions among symmetric Z2 spin liquids, and are a first step toward a full classification of symmetric topologically ordered phases.

id: 1212.0668
title: Vectorial velocity filter for ultracold neutrons based on a surface-disordered mirror system
authors: L. A. Chizhova, S. Rotter, T. Jenke, G. Cronenberg, P. Geltenbort, G. Wautischer, H. Filter H. Abele, J. Burgd?rfer
comments: 14 pages, 13 figures; final version including additional experimental data
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 032907 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0668
abstract: We perform classical three-dimensional Monte Carlo simulations of ultracold neutrons scattering through an absorbing-reflecting mirror system in the Earth's gravitational field. We show that the underlying mixed phase space of regular skipping motion and random motion due to disorder scattering can be exploited to realize a vectorial velocity filter for ultracold neutrons. The absorbing-reflecting mirror system proposed allows beams of ultracold neutrons with low angular divergence to be formed. The range of velocity components can be controlled by adjusting the geometric parameters of the system. First experimental tests of its performance are presented. One potential future application is the investigation of transport and scattering dynamics in confined systems downstream of the filter.

id: 1212.0690
title: Evidence for strong van der Waals-type Rydberg-Rydberg interaction in thermal vapor
authors: T. Baluktsian, B. Huber, R. L?w, T. Pfau
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0690
abstract: We present evidence for Rydberg-Rydberg interaction in a gas of rubidium atoms above room temperature. Rabi oscillations on the nanosecond timescale to different Rydberg states are investigated in a vapor cell experiment. Analyzing the atomic time evolution and comparing to a dephasing model we find a scaling with the Rydberg quantum number n that is consistent with van der Waals interaction. Our results show that the interaction strength can be larger than the kinetic energy scale (Doppler width) which is the requirement for realization of thermal quantum devices in the GHz regime.

id: 1212.0726
title: Cavity-Mediated Entanglement Generation Via Landau-Zener Interferometry
authors: C. M. Quintana, K. D. Petersson, L. W. McFaul, S. J. Srinivasan, A. A. Houck, J. R. Petta
comments: Related papers at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 173603 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0726
abstract: We demonstrate quantum control and entanglement generation using a Landau-Zener beam splitter formed by coupling two transmon qubits to a superconducting cavity. Single passage through the cavity-mediated qubit-qubit avoided crossing provides a direct test of the Landau-Zener transition formula. Consecutive sweeps result in Landau-Zener-Stuckelberg interference patterns, with a visibility that can be sensitively tuned by adjusting the level velocity through both the non-adiabatic and adiabatic regimes. Two-qubit state tomography indicates that a Bell state can be generated via a single passage, with a fidelity of 78% limited by qubit relaxation.

id: 1212.0810
title: Faraday rotation of a tightly focussed beam from a single trapped atom
authors: G. H¨¦tet, L. Slodi?ka, N. R?ck, R. Blatt
comments: Added references. Modified figure 4
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0810
abstract: Faraday rotation of a laser field induced by a single atom is demonstrated by tightly focussing a linearly polarized laser beam onto a laser-cooled ion held in a harmonic Paul trap. The polarization rotation signal is further used to measure the phase-shift associated with electromagnetically-induced-transparency and to demonstrate read-out of the internal state on the qubit transition with a detection fidelity of 98 $\pm$ 1%. These results have direct implications for single atom magnetometery and dispersive read-out of atomic superpositions.

id: 1212.0903
title: Feshbach molecule formation in a Bose-Fermi mixture
authors: Tyler D. Cumby, Ruth A. Shewmon, Ming-Guang Hu, John D. Perreault, Deborah S. Jin
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012703 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0903
abstract: We investigate magnetoassociation of ultracold fermionic Feshbach molecules in a mixture of $^{40}$K and $^{87}$Rb atoms, where we can create as many as $7\times 10^4$ $^{40}$K$^{87}$Rb molecules with a conversion efficiency as high as 45%. In the perturbative regime, we find that the conversion efficiency depends linearly on the density overlap of the two gases, with a slope that matches a parameter-free model that uses only the atom masses and the known Feshbach resonance parameters. In the saturated regime, we find that the maximum number of Feshbach molecules depends on the atoms' phase-space density. At higher temperatures, our measurements agree with a phenomenological model that successfully describes the formation of bosonic molecules from either Bose or Fermi gases. However, for quantum degenerate atom gas mixtures, we measure significantly fewer molecules than this model predicts.

id: 1212.0921
title: Structure of two-component Bose-Einstein condensates with respective vortex-antivortex superposition states
authors: Linghua Wen, Yongjun Qiao, Yong Xu, Li Mao
comments: 8pages,5figures,accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 87, 033604 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0921
abstract: We investigate the phase structure of two-component Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) with repulsive intra- and interspecies interactions in the presence of respective vortex-antivortex superposition states (VAVSS). We show that different winding numbers of vortex and antivortex and different intra- and interspecies interaction strengths may lead to different phase configurations, such as fully separated phases, inlaid separated phases, asymmetric separated phase, and partially mixed phases, where the density profile of each component displays a petal-like (or modulated petal-like) structure. A phase diagram is given for the case of equal unit winding numbers of the vortex and antivortex in respective components, and it is shown that conventional criterion for phase separation of two-component BECs is not applicable for the present system due to the VAVSS. In addition, our nonlinear stability analysis indicates that the typical phase structures of two-component BECs with VAVSS allow to be detected in experiments. Moreover, for the case of unequal winding numbers of the vortex and antivortex in respective components, we find that each component in any of the possible phase structures is in a cluster state of vortices and antivortices, where the topological defects appear in the form of singly quantized visible vortex, or hidden vortex, or ghost vortex, depending on the specific parameters of the system. Finally, a general rule between the vortex-antivortex cluster state and the winding numbers of vortex and antivortex is revealed.

id: 1212.0944
title: The quest for a universal density functional: The accuracy of density functionals across a broad spectrum of databases in chemistry and physics
authors: Roberto Peverati, Donald G. Truhlar
comments: APR 18 2013: Final revision, accepted version to be published in Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A as part of a theme issue on 'DFT for Physics, Chemistry and Biology', guest edited by Tanja van Mourik, Michael Buehl, and Marie-Pierre Gaigeot. JUL 21 2013: Updated version where we corrected a few typos in the tables and in the references. SEP 06 2013: Correction of a few typos
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0944
abstract: Kohn-Sham density functional theory is in principle an exact formulation of quantum mechanical electronic structure theory, but in practice we have to rely on approximate exchange-correlation (xc) functionals. The objective of our work has been to design an xc functional with broad accuracy across as wide an expanse of chemistry and physics as possible, leading-as a long-range goal-to a functional with good accuracy for all problems, i.e., a universal functional. To guide our path toward that goal and to measure our progress, we have developed-building on earlier work in our group-a set of databases of reference data for a variety of energetic and structural properties in chemistry and physics. These databases include energies of molecular processes such as atomization, complexation, proton addition, and ionization; they also include molecular geometries and solid-state lattice constants, chemical reaction barrier heights, and cohesive energies and band gaps of solids. For the present paper we gather many of these databases into four comprehensive databases, two with 384 energetic data for chemistry and solid-state physics and another two with 68 structural data for chemistry and solid-state physics, and we test 2 wave function methods and 77 density functionals (12 Minnesota meta functionals and 65 others) in a consistent way across this same broad set of data. We especially highlight the Minnesota density functionals, but the results have broader implications in that one may see the successes and failures of many kinds of density functionals when they are all applied to the same data. Therefore the results provide a status report on the quest for a universal functional.

id: 1212.0953
title: Origin of probabilities and their application to the multiverse
authors: Andreas Albrecht, Daniel Phillips
comments: 7 pages including one table. V3: Final version accepted for publication in PRD. Small changes throughout to improve clarity. Section V is expanded and improved. No change to the conclusions or technical points
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 123514 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.0953
abstract: We argue using simple models that all successful practical uses of probabilities originate in quantum fluctuations in the microscopic physical world around us, often propagated to macroscopic scales. Thus we claim there is no physically verified fully classical theory of probability. We comment on the general implications of this view, and specifically question the application of classical probability theory to cosmology in cases where key questions are known to have no quantum answer. We argue that the ideas developed here may offer a way out of the notorious measure problems of eternal inflation.

id: 1212.1014
title: Rashba spin-orbit interaction in a circular quantum ring in the presence of a magnetic field
authors: V. V. Kudryashov, A. V. Baran
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables
journal: Nonlinear Phenomena in Complex Systems, vol. 14, no. 1 (2011), pp. 89-95
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1014
abstract: Exact wave functions and energy levels are obtained for an electron in a two-dimensional semiconductor circular quantum ring with a confining potential of finite depth in the presence of both an external magnetic field and the Rashba spin-orbit interaction.

id: 1212.1083
title: Single Bubble SonoLuminescence of Particles model
authors: Mahamadou Adama Maiga
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1083
abstract: The Single Bubble SonoLuminescence is a phenomenon where the vapor bubble trapped in a liquid collapse by emitting of a light. It is very known that the temperature inside the bubble depends on the radius, during the collapse, the temperature can reach thousands of Kelvins and that the light would be emitted by radiation of the ionized gas inside the bubble. So, studies show that in certain cases neither an imploding shock nor a plasma has been observed and the temperature is not high enough to explain the spectrum observed. The Single Bubble SonoLuminescence remains a subject of study. For this study we consider the bubble as a box where the free particles (particularly electrons) stemming from the molecules dissociation, are are trapped and confined within the bubble. The confinement allows the particles to acquire some energy during the collapse which they lose in the form of light and also to be considered to bind to the bubble as an electron is bound to the nucleus in an atom. So, with regard to the bubble the energy of the particles can be considered to quantify, and with the quantum theory, by putting some hypotheses, their energy is determined well. The energy is physically acceptable that if the bubble is spherical. This necessary condition of a spherical bubble of the model is observed experimentally in the collapse phase but not in the afterbounce phase of the bubble, explain why the bubble emits of light in the collapse but not in the phase of the afterbounces where she can be smaller, and constitute a validation of the Single Bubble SonoLuminescence of particles model. For the application of the Single Bubble SonoLuminescence of particles model we consider a electron free particle of mass . We note that the interval of time between and energy (who can be considered as the duration when the bubble emits some light) is of the order of picoseconds, the same order that the shortest pulses observed experimentally.

id: 1212.1088
title: Anomalous currents in driven XXZ chain with boundary twisting at weak coupling or weak driving
authors: Vladislav Popkov, Mario Salerno
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P02040
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1088
abstract: The spin 1/2 XXZ chain driven out of equilibrium by coupling with boundary reservoirs targeting perpendicular spin orientations in XY plane, is investigated. The existence of an anomaly in the nonequilibrium steady state (NESS) at the isotropic point $\Delta=1$ is demonstrated both in the weak coupling and weak driving limits. The nature of the anomaly is studied analytically by calculating exact NESS for small system sizes, and investigating steady currents. The spin current at the points $\Delta=\pm1$ has a singularity which leads to a current discontinuity when either driving or coupling vanish, and the current of energy develops a twin peak anomaly. The character of singularity is shown to depend qualitatively on whether the system size is even or odd.

id: 1212.1092
title: Fluctuations in quantum one-dimensional thermostatted systems with off-diagonal disorder
authors: Matteo Colangeli, Lamberto Rondoni
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1092
abstract: We analyze a one dimensional quantum model with off-diagonal disorder, consisting of a sequence of potential energy barriers whose width is a random variable either uniformly or normally distributed. We investigate how the disorder and the energy distribution (due to a thermostat at room temperature) affect the resulting value of the transmission coefficient, and discuss the structure of the fluctuations of such coefficient at different length scales and the onset of different size-dependent regimes. Our analysis suggests an efficient way to detect tunneling resonances in a regime of off-diagonal disorder.

id: 1212.1097
title: Weaving commutators: beyond Fock space
authors: Michele Arzano
comments: 10 pages, no figures. Fourth prize in the 2012 FQXi essay contest "Questioning the Foundations". For more essays see fqxi.org
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1097
abstract: The symmetrization postulate and the associated Bose/Fermi (anti)-commutators for field mode operators are among the pillars on which local quantum field theory lays its foundations. They ultimately determine the structure of Fock space and are closely connected with the local properties of the fields and with the action of symmetry generators on observables and states. We here show that the quantum field theory describing relativistic particles coupled to three dimensional Einstein gravity as a topological defect must be constructed using a deformed algebra of creation and annihilation operators. This reflects a non-trivial group manifold structure of the classical momentum space and a modification of the Leibniz rule for the action of symmetry generators governed by Newton's constant. We outline various arguments suggesting that, at least at the qualitative level, these three-dimensional results could also apply to real four-dimensional world thus forcing us to re-think the ordinary multiparticle structure of quantum field theory and many of the fundamental aspects connected to it.

id: 1212.1164
title: Thermodynamical Property of Entanglement Entropy for Excited States
authors: Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya, Masahiro Nozaki, Tadashi Takayanagi, Tomonori Ugajin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 091602 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1164
abstract: We argue that the entanglement entropy for a very small subsystem obeys a property which is analogous to the first law of thermodynamics when we excite the system. In relativistic setups, its effective temperature is proportional to the inverse of the subsystem size. This provides a universal relationship between the energy and the amount of quantum information. We derive the results using holography and confirm them in two dimensional field theories. We will also comment on an example with negative specific heat and suggest a connection between the second law of thermodynamics and the strong subadditivity of entanglement entropy.

id: 1212.1193
title: Quadrature interferometry for nonequilibrium ultracold bosons in optical lattices
authors: Eite Tiesinga, Philip R. Johnson
comments: Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013423 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1193
abstract: We develop an interferometric technique for making time-resolved measurements of field-quadrature operators for nonequilibrium ultracold bosons in optical lattices. The technique exploits the internal state structure of magnetic atoms to create two subsystems of atoms in different spin states and lattice sites. A Feshbach resonance turns off atom-atom interactions in one spin subsystem, making it a well-characterized reference state, while atoms in the other subsystem undergo nonequilibrium dynamics for a variable hold time. Interfering the subsystems via a second beam-splitting operation, time-resolved quadrature measurements on the interacting atoms are obtained by detecting relative spin populations. The technique can provide quadrature measurements for a variety of Hamiltonians and lattice geometries (e.g., cubic, honeycomb, superlattices), including systems with tunneling, spin-orbit couplings using artificial gauge fields, and higher-band effects. Analyzing the special case of a deep lattice with negligible tunneling, we obtain the time evolution of both quadrature observables and their fluctuations. As a second application, we show that the interferometer can be used to measure atom-atom interaction strengths with super-Heisenberg scaling n^(-3/2) in the mean number of atoms per lattice site n, and standard quantum limit scaling M^(-1/2) in the number of lattice sites M. In our analysis, we require M >> 1 and for realistic systems n is small, and therefore the scaling in total atom number N = nM is below the Heisenberg limit; nevertheless, measurements testing the scaling behaviors for interaction-based quantum metrologies should be possible in this system.

id: 1212.1239
title: Entropy of Quantum States: Ambiguities
authors: A. P. Balachandran, A. R. de Queiroz, S. Vaidya
comments: 16 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1239
abstract: The von Neumann entropy of a generic quantum state is not unique unless the state can be uniquely decomposed as a sum of extremal or pure states. As pointed out to us by Sorkin, this happens if the GNS representation (of the algebra of observables in some quantum state) is reducible, and some representations in the decomposition occur with non-trivial degeneracy. This non-unique entropy can occur at zero temperature. We will argue elsewhere in detail that the degeneracies in the GNS representation can be interpreted as an emergent broken gauge symmetry, and play an important role in the analysis of emergent entropy due to non-Abelian anomalies. Finally, we establish the analogue of an H-theorem for this entropy by showing that its evolution is Markovian, determined by a stochastic matrix.

id: 1212.1311
title: Quantum information analysis of quantum phase transitions in a one-dimensional V1-V2 hard-core-boson model
authors: Jie Ren, Xuefen Xu, Liping Gu, Jialiang Li
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1311
abstract: The entanglement entropy and quantum fidelity in a hard-core-boson model with nearest- and next-nearest-neighbor interactions are studied numerically. By using exact diagonalization and the density matrix renormalization group, the effects of interactions on entanglement entropy and fidelity susceptibility in the model are investigated. We focus our attention on looking for three quantum phase transitions. It is found that the first derivative of the entanglement entropy can indicate all of three phase transitions, while the fidelity susceptibility cannot predict the transition from superfluid to bond-order in a finite-size system.

id: 1212.1316
title: Macroscopic quantum tunneling of Bose-Einstein condensates with long-range interaction
authors: Kai Marquardt, Pascal Wieland, Rolf H?fner, Holger Cartarius, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063629 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1316
abstract: The ground state of Bose-Einstein condensates with attractive particle interaction is metastable. One of the decay mechanisms of the condensate is a collapse by macroscopic quantum tunneling, which can be described by the bounce trajectory as solution of the time-dependent Gross-Pitaevskii equation in imaginary time. For condensates with an electromagnetically induced gravity-like interaction the bounce trajectory is computed with an extended variational approach using coupled Gaussian functions and simulated numerically exact within the mean-field approach on a space-time lattice. It is shown that the variational computations converge very rapidly to the numerically exact result with increasing number of Gaussians. The tunneling rate of the condensate is obtained from the classical action and additional parameters of the bounce trajectory. The converged variational and numerically exact results drastically improve by several orders of magnitude the decay rates obtained previously with a simple variational approach using a single Gaussian-type orbital for the condensate wave function.

id: 1212.1364
title: Dissipative structures in optomechanical cavities
authors: Joaqu¨ªn Ruiz-Rivas, Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, Giuseppe Patera, Eugenio Rold¨¢n, Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1364
abstract: We analyze the possibility of pattern formation in an optical cavity in which one of its mirrors can be deformed by radiation pressure. Our model treats the deformable mirror as tense membrane that can oscillate, not only back and forth around its axial equilibrium position (center of mass motion), but also in its transverse degrees of freedom, vibrating like a drum in combinations of modes. We demonstrate the existence of periodic patterns and localized structures (cavity solitons) in this model, which should be realizable with current technology.

id: 1212.1385
title: Optimizing the pulse shape for Schwinger pair production
authors: Christian Kohlf¨¹rst, Mario Mitter, Gregory von Winckel, Florian Hebenstreit, Reinhard Alkofer
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. Revised version: Discussion extended (introduction, section III.C, conclusion) and references added, PRD Version
journal: Phys.Rev.D88:045028,2013
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1385
abstract: Recent studies of the dynamically assisted Schwinger effect have shown that particle production is significantly enhanced by a proper choice of the electric field. We demonstrate that optimal control theory provides a systematic means of modifying the pulse shape in order to maximize the particle yield. We employ the quantum kinetic framework and derive the relevant optimal control equations. By means of simple examples we discuss several important issues of the optimization procedure such as constraints, initial conditions or scaling. By relating our findings to established results we demonstrate that the particle yield is systematically maximized by this procedure.

id: 1212.1398
title: Finite Range Effects in Energies and Recombination Rates of Three Identical Bosons
authors: P. K. S?rensen, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 075301
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1398
abstract: We investigate finite-range effects in systems with three identical bosons. We calculate recombination rates and bound state spectra using two different finite-range models that have been used recently to describe the physics of cold atomic gases near Feshbach resonances where the scattering length is large. The models are built on contact potentials which take into account finite range effects; one is a two-channel model and the other is an effective range expansion model implemented through the boundary condition on the three-body wave function when two of the particles are at the same point in space. We compare the results with the results of the ubiquitous single-parameter zero-range model where only the scattering length is taken into account. Both finite range models predict variations of the well-known geometric scaling factor 22.7 that arises in Efimov physics. The threshold value at negative scattering length for creation of a bound trimer moves to higher or lower values depending on the sign of the effective range compared to the location of the threshold for the single-parameter zero-range model. Large effective ranges, corresponding to narrow resonances, are needed for the reduction to have any noticeable effect.

id: 1212.1436
title: Quantum diffusion: a simple, exactly solvable model
authors: Wim Magnus, Kwinten Nelissen
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1436
abstract: We propose a simple quantum mechanical model describing the time dependent diffusion current between two fermion reservoirs that were initially disconnected and characterized by different densities or chemical potentials. The exact, analytical solution of the model yields the transient behavior of the coupled fermion systems evolving to a final steady state, whereas the long-time behavior is determined by a power law rather than by exponential decay. Similar results are obtained for the entropy production which is proportional to the diffusion current.

id: 1212.1442
title: Algorithms for the Markov Entropy Decomposition
authors: Andrew J. Ferris, David Poulin
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1442
abstract: The Markov entropy decomposition (MED) is a recently-proposed, cluster-based simulation method for finite temperature quantum systems with arbitrary geometry. In this paper, we detail numerical algorithms for performing the required steps of the MED, principally solving a minimization problem with a preconditioned Newton's algorithm, as well as how to extract global susceptibilities and thermal responses. We demonstrate the power of the method with the spin-1/2 XXZ model on the 2D square lattice, including the extraction of critical points and details of each phase. Although the method shares some qualitative similarities with exact-diagonalization, we show the MED is both more accurate and significantly more flexible.

id: 1212.1528
title: Fidelity susceptibility of the quantum Ising model in the transverse field: The exact solution
authors: Bogdan Damski
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, minor changes, some references added
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 052131 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1528
abstract: We derive an exact closed-form expression for fidelity susceptibility of the quantum Ising model in the transverse field. We also establish an exact one-to-one correspondence between fidelity susceptibility in the ferromagnetic and paramagnetic phases of this model. Elegant summation formulas are obtained as a by-product of these studies.

id: 1212.1565
title: Boundary perturbations and the Helmholtz equation in three dimensions
authors: S. Panda, G. Hazra
comments: 30 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1565
abstract: We propose an analytic perturbative scheme for determining the eigenvalues of the Helmholtz equation, $(\nabla^2 + k^2) \psi = 0$, in three dimensions with an arbitrary boundary where $\psi$ satisfies either the Dirichlet boundary condition ($\psi =0$ on the boundary) or the Neumann boundary condition (the normal gradient of $\psi$, $\frac{\partial \psi}{\partial n}$ is vanishing on the boundary). Although numerous works are available in the literature for arbitrary boundaries in two dimensions, to best of our knowledge the formulation in three dimensions is proposed for the first time. In this novel prescription, we have expanded the arbitrary boundary in terms of spherical harmonics about an equivalent sphere and obtained perturbative closed-form solutions at each order for the problem in terms of corrections to the equivalent spherical boundary for both the boundary conditions. This formulation is in parallel with the standard time-independent Rayleigh-Schr{\"o}dinger perturbation theory. The efficiency of the method is tested by comparing the perturbative values against the numerically calculated eigenvalues for spheroidal, superegg and superquadric shaped boundaries. It is shown that this perturbation works quite well even for wide departure from spherical shape and for higher excited states too. We believe this formulation would find applications in the field of quantum dots and acoustical cavities.

id: 1212.1566
title: Exact solutions of a spatially-dependent mass Dirac equation for Coulomb field plus tensor interaction via Laplace transformation method
authors: Mahdi Eshghi, Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: Advances in High Energy physics 2012 (2012)ID 873619
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1566
abstract: The spatially-dependent mass Dirac equation is solved exactly for attractive scalar and repulsive vector Coulomb potentials including a tensor interaction potential under the spin and pseudospin (p-spin) symmetric limits by using the Laplace transformation method (LTM). Closed forms of the energy eigenvalue equation and wave functions are obtained for arbitrary spin-orbit quantum number Some numerical results are given too. The effect of the tensor interaction on the bound states is presented. It is shown that the tensor interaction removes the degeneracy between two states in the spin doublets. We also investigate the effects of the spatially-dependent mass on the bound states under the conditions of the spin symmetric limit and in the absence of tensor interaction

id: 1212.1569
title: Nanomechanical read-out of a single spin
authors: P. R. Struck, Heng Wang, Guido Burkard
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1569
abstract: The spin of a single electron in a suspended carbon nanotube can be read out by using its coupling to the nano-mechanical motion of the nanotube. To show this, we consider a single electron confined within a quantum dot formed by the suspended carbon nanotube. The spin- orbit interaction induces a coupling between the spin and one of the bending modes of the suspended part of the nanotube. We calculate the response of the system to pulsed external driving of the mechanical motion using a Jaynes-Cummings model. To account for resonator damping, we solve a quantum master equation, with parameters comparable to those used in recent experiments, and show how information of the spin state of the system can be acquired by measuring its mechanical motion. The latter can be detected by observing the current through a nearby charge detector.

id: 1212.1620
title: Spectral description of the dynamics of ultracold interacting bosons in disordered lattices
authors: Beno?t Vermersch, Jean Claude Garreau
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 045030 (15pp)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1620
abstract: We study the dynamics of a nonlinear one-dimensional disordered system from a spectral point of view. The spectral entropy and the Lyapunov exponent are extracted from the short time dynamics, and shown to give a pertinent characterization of the different dynamical regimes. The chaotic and self-trapped regimes are governed by log-normal laws whose origin is traced to the exponential shape of the eigenstates of the linear problem. These quantities satisfy scaling laws depending on the initial state and explain the system behaviour at longer times.

id: 1212.1630
title: Asymptotically well-behaved input states do not violate additivity for conjugate pairs of random quantum channels
authors: Motohisa Fukuda, Ion Nechita
comments: 
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. Vol. 328, No. 3 (2014), 995-1021
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1630
abstract: It is now well-known that, with high probability, the additivity of minimum output entropy does not hold for a pair of a random quantum channel and its complex conjugate. We investigate asymptotic behavior of output states of $r$-tensor powers of such pairs, as the dimension of inputs grows. We compute the limit output states for any sequence of well-behaved inputs, which consist of a large class of input states having a nice set of parameters. Then, we show that among these input states tensor products of Bell states give asymptotically the least output entropy, giving positive mathematical evidence towards additivity of above pairs of channels.

id: 1212.1782
title: On geometric interpretation of the Berry phase
authors: M. O. Katanaev
comments: 11 pages
journal: Rus. Phys. J. 54(2012)1082--1092, Izv. VUZov. Fizika 10(2011)26--35
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1782
abstract: A geometric interpretation of the Berry phase and its Wilczek--Zee non-Abelian generalization are given in terms of connections on principal fiber bundles. It is demonstrated that a principal fiber bundle can be trivial in all cases, while the connection and its holonomy group are nontrivial. Therefore, the main role is played by geometric rather than topological effects.

id: 1212.1865
title: On geometric interpretation of the Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: M. O. Katanaev
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Rus. Phys. J. 54(2011)507-514; Izv. VUZov. Fizika 5(2011)3-9
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1865
abstract: A geometric interpretation of the Aharonov--Bohm effect is given in terms of connections on principal fiber bundles. It is demonstrated that the principal fiber bundle can be trivial while the connection and its holonomy group are nontrivial. Therefore, the main role is played by geometric rather than topological effects.

id: 1212.1890
title: The quantum hydrodynamic description of quantum gases with different interactions
authors: Pavel A. Andreev
comments: 37 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1890
abstract: We describe recent development of quantum hydrodynamics for ultracold Bose particle studying and consider different kinds of interactions. The method of derivation of equations describing the evolution of the neutral Bose particle system at low temperatures is described. Despite the fact that we consider the neutral particles we account the short-range interaction between particles. We consider the particles in the Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) state. This method is called the method of quantum hydrodynamics, because natural for of the quantum mechanics rewritten in terms of material fields of observable quantities in three dimensional space is the set of equations, which look like the hydrodynamics equations. It can be shown that from the quantum hydrodynamics equations can be derived macroscopic non-linear Schrodinger equation. Most famous non-linear Schrodinger equation is the Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) equation, which contains nonlinearity of the third degree. There are generalizations of the GP equation. New term appears in the GP equation at account of the three-particle interaction. This term contains nonlinearity of the fifth degree. At more detailed account of the two particle interaction we come to the nonlocal non-linear Schrodinger equation. This equation contains spatial derivatives of the order parameter in the non-linear terms caused by the interaction. In this terminology the GP equation corresponds to the first order by the interaction radius. For the BEC of the neutral particles with anisotropic long-range dipole-dipole interaction the generalization of the GP equation was also suggested. Detailed analyses of the applicability conditions shows that this equation valid for the system of dipoles parallel to each other, which do not change their direction, and where the dipole-dipole interaction interferences translational motion of particles.

id: 1212.1894
title: Surface plasmon for graphene in the Dirac equation model
authors: M. Bordag
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1894
abstract: We consider single-layer plane graphene with electronic excitations described by the Dirac equation. Using a known representation of the polarization tensor in terms of the spinor loop we show the existence of surface modes, i.e., of undamped in time excitations of the \elm field, propagating along the graphene. These show up in the TE polarization and exist at zero temperature.

id: 1212.1944
title: Effects of quantum deformation on the spin-1/2 Aharonov-Bohm problem
authors: F. M. Andrade, E. O. Silva
comments: 12 pages, no figures, submitted for publication
journal: Physics Letters B 719 (2013) pp. 467-471
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1944
abstract: In this letter we study the Aharonov-Bohm problem for a spin-1/2 particle in the quantum deformed framework generated by the $\kappa$-Poincar\'{e}-Hopf algebra. We consider the nonrelativistic limit of the $\kappa$-deformed Dirac equation and use the spin-dependent term to impose an upper bound on the magnitude of the deformation parameter $\varepsilon$. By using the self-adjoint extension approach, we examine the scattering and bound state scenarios. After obtaining the scattering phase shift and the $S$-matrix, the bound states energies are obtained by analyzing the pole structure of the latter. Using a recently developed general regularization prescription [Phys. Rev. D. \textbf{85}, 041701(R) (2012)], the self-adjoint extension parameter is determined in terms of the physics of the problem. For last, we analyze the problem of helicity conservation.

id: 1212.1951
title: One-dimensional transport revisited: A simple and exact solution for phase disorder
authors: Hui Khoon Ng, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. Version 2 contains an additional pertinent reference (Ref. [11]); we comment on how our work compares with the results of Ref. [11]
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 054201 (2013)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1951
abstract: Disordered systems have grown in importance in the past decades, with similar phenomena manifesting themselves in many different physical systems. Because of the difficulty of the topic, theoretical progress has mostly emerged from numerical studies or analytical approximations. Here, we provide an exact, analytical solution to the problem of uniform phase disorder in a system of identical scatterers arranged with varying separations along a line. Relying on a relationship with Legendre functions, we demonstrate a simple approach to computing statistics of the transmission probability (or the conductance, in the language of electronic transport), and its reciprocal (or the resistance). Our formalism also gives the probability distribution of the conductance, which reveals features missing from previous approaches to the problem.

id: 1212.1964
title: Microscopic derivation of Spin-transfer torques in ferromagnets
authors: Ran Cheng, Qian Niu
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review B 88, 024422 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1964
abstract: Spin-transfer torque (STT) provides key mechanisms for current-induced phenomena in ferromagnets. While it is widely accepted that STT involves both adiabatic and non-adiabatic contributions, their underlying physics and range of validity are quite controversial. By computing microscopically the response of conduction electron spins to a time varying and spatially inhomogeneous magnetic background, we derive the adiabatic and non-adiabatic STT in a unified fashion. Our result confirms the macroscopic theory [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{93},~127204 (2004)] with all coefficients matched exactly. Our derivation also reveals a benchmark on the validity of the result, which is used to explain three recent measurements of the non-adiabatic STT in quite different settings.

id: 1212.1972
title: A Solution Technique for Quantum Mechanical Differential Equations Using Multiple Complex Planes
authors: Robert J. Ducharme
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1972
abstract: It is shown fields that cannot be represented over one complex plane can be further decomposed for representation over multiple complex planes. This finding is demonstrated here by solving of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the hydrogen atom in a complex space containing three complex planes. The complex coordinate system is generated from real coordinates using an isometric transformation. One plane is applied to mix energy and time; the other two planes are used to represent the z-component of angular momentum of the electron. The eigensolutions of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation are shown to be holomorphic in the complex planes.

id: 1212.1981
title: Quenches and lattice simulators for particle creation
authors: Francesco Caravelli, Fotini Markopoulou, Arnau Riera, Lorenzo Sindoni
comments: 12 pages double column, 7 figures (several clarifications, typos corrected and reference added in v2)
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.1981
abstract: In this paper we propose a framework for simulating thermal particle production in condensed matter systems. The procedure we describe can be realized by means of a quantum quench of a parameter in the model. In order to support this claim, we study quadratic fermionic systems in one and two dimensions by means of analytical and numerical techniques. In particular, we are able to show that a class of observables associated to Unruh--de Witt detectors are very relevant for this type of setup and that exhibit approximate thermalization.

id: 1212.2092
title: A generalized non-Hermitian Pais-Uhlenbeck quantum Hamiltonian, its Hermitian equivalence and position-dependent mass correspondence
authors: B. Bagchi, A. Ghose Choudhury, Partha Guha
comments: Paper is withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2092
abstract: We explore the Jacobi Last Multiplier as a means for deriving the Lagrangian of a fourth-order differential equation. In particular we consider the classical problem of the Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator and write down the accompanying Hamiltonian. We then compare such an expression with an alternative derivation of the Hamiltonian that makes use of the Ostrogradski's method and show that a mapping from the one to the other is achievable by variable transformations. Assuming canonical quantization procedure to be valid we go for the operator version of the Hamiltonian that represents a pair of uncoupled oscillators. This motivates us to propose a generalized Pais-Uhlenbeck Hamiltonian in terms of the usual harmonic oscillator creation and annihilation operators by including terms quadratic and linear in them. Such a Hamiltonian turns out to be essentially non-Hermitian but has an equivalent Hermitian representation which is reducible to a typically position-dependent reduced mass form.

id: 1212.2095
title: Optimal transport and von Neumann entropy in an Heisenberg XXZ chain out of equilibrium
authors: Mario Salerno, Vladislav Popkov
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2095
abstract: In this paper we investigate the spin currents and the von Neumann entropy (VNE) of an Heisenberg XXZ chain in contact with twisted XY-boundary magnetic reservoirs by means of the Lindblad master equation. Exact solutions for the stationary reduced density matrix are explicitly constructed for chains of small sizes by using a quantum symmetry operation of the system. These solutions are then used to investigate the optimal transport in the chain in terms of the VNE. As a result we show that the maximal spin current always occurs in the proximity of extrema of the VNE and for particular choices of parameters (coupling with reservoirs and anisotropy) it can exactly coincide with them. In the limit of strong coupling we show that minima of the VNE tend to zero, meaning that the maximal transport is achieved in this case with states that are very close to pure states.

id: 1212.2121
title: Projective construction of two-dimensional symmetry-protected topological phases with U(1), SO(3), or SU(2) symmetries
authors: Peng Ye, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 7+ pages, accepted by Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 195128 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2121
abstract: We propose a general approach to construct symmetry protected topological (SPT) states i.e the short-range entangled states with symmetry) in 2D spin/boson systems on lattice. In our approach, we fractionalize spins/bosons into different fermions, which occupy nontrivial Chern bands. After the Gutzwiller projection of the free fermion state obtained by filling the Chern bands, we can obtain SPT states on lattice. In particular, we constructed a U(1) SPT state of a spin-1 model, a SO(3) SPT state of a boson system with spin-1 bosons and spinless bosons, and a SU(2) SPT state of a spin-1/2 boson system. By applying the "spin gauge field" which directly couples to the spin density and spin current of $S^z$ components, we also calculate the quantum spin Hall conductance in each SPT state. The projective ground states can be further studied numerically in the future by variational Monte Carlo etc.

id: 1212.2147
title: Topological interface physics of defects and textures in spinor Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Magnus O. Borgh, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: Follow-up article to M.O. Borgh and J. Ruostekoski, Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 015302 (2012); 16 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 033617 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2147
abstract: We provide a detailed description of our previously proposed scheme for topological interface engineering with constructed defects and textures perforating across coherent interfaces between different broken symmetries [M. O. Borgh and J. Ruostekoski, Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 015302 (2012)]. We consider a spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate, in which polar and ferromagnetic phases are prepared in spatially separated regions. We show that a stable coherent interface is established between the two phases, allowing defects of different topology to connect continuously across the boundary. We provide analytic constructions of interface-crossing defect solutions that could be experimentally phase-imprinted using existing technology. By numerically minimizing the energy, we calculate the core structures of interface-crossing defect configurations. We demonstrate nontrivial core deformations to considerably more complex structures, such as the formation of an arch-shaped half-quantum line defect, an Alice arch, at the interface, with the topological charge of a point defect, whose emergence may be understood by the "hairy ball" theorem. Another example of an energetically stable object is the connection of a coreless vortex to a pair of half-quantum vortices. We show that rotation leads to spontaneous nucleation of defects in which a coreless vortex continuously transforms to a half-quantum vortex across the interface.

id: 1212.2220
title: Quantum interference and light polarization effects in unresolvable atomic lines: application to a precise measurement of the 6,7 Li D2 lines
authors: Roger C. Brown, Saijun Wu, J. V. Porto, Craig J. Sansonetti, C.E. Simien, Samuel M. Brewer, Joseph N. Tan, J. D. Gillaspy
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures, 7 tables, typos in appendix tables V and VI corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032504 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2220
abstract: We characterize the effect of quantum interference on the line shapes and measured line positions in atomic spectra. These effects, which occur when the excited state splittings are of order the excited state line widths, represent an overlooked but significant systematic effect. We show that excited state interference gives rise to non-Lorenztian line shapes that depend on excitation polarization, and we present expressions for the corrected line shapes. We present spectra of 6,7 Li D lines taken at multiple excitation laser polarizations and show that failure to account for interference changes the inferred line strengths and shifts the line centers by as much as 1 MHz. Using the correct lineshape, we determine absolute optical transition frequencies with an uncertainty of <= 25kHz and provide an improved determination of the difference in mean square nuclear charge radii between 6 Li and 7 Li. This analysis should be important for a number of high resolution spectral measurements that include partially resolvable atomic lines.

id: 1212.2361
title: Lie-point symmetries of the Lagrangian system on time scales
authors: Cai Ping-Ping, Song-Duan, Fu Jing-Li, Hong Fang-Yu
comments: 14 pages,0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2361
abstract: This letter investigates the Lie point symmetries and conserved quantities of the Lagrangian systems on time scales, which unify the Lie symmetries of the two cases for the continuous and the discrete Lagrangian systems. By defining the infinitesimal transformations' generators and using the invariance of differential equations under infinitesimal transformations, the determining equations of the Lie symmetries on time scales are established. Then the structure equations and the form of conserved quantities with delta derivatives are obtained. The letter also gives brief discussion on the Lie symmetries for the discrete systems. Finally, several examples are designed to illustrate these results.

id: 1212.2378
title: 1, 2, and 6 qubits, and the Ramanujan-Nagell theorem
authors: Yaroslav Pavlyukh, A. R. P. Rau
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2378
abstract: A conjecture of Ramanujan that was later proved by Nagell is used to show on the basis of matching dimensions that only three $n$-qubit systems, for $n=1, 2, 6$, can share an isomorphism of their symmetry groups with the rotation group of corresponding dimensions $3, 6, 91$. Topological analysis, however, rules out the last possibility.

id: 1212.2387
title: Superfluidity and Stabilities of a Bose-Einstein condensate with periodically modulated interatomic interaction
authors: Shao-Liang Zhang, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Biao Wu
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physics Review A, 87, 013633 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2387
abstract: We study theoretically the superfluidity and stability of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) whose interatomic scattering length is periodically modulated with optical Feshbach resonance. Our numerical study finds that the properties of this periodic BEC are strongly influenced by the modulation strength. When the modulation strength is small, only the Bloch waves close to the Brillouin zone edge suffer both Landau and dynamical instabilities. When the modulation strength is strong enough, all Bloch waves become dynamically unstable. In other words, the periodic BEC loses its superfluidity completely.

id: 1212.2423
title: Spatial correlations of Rydberg excitations in optically driven atomic ensembles
authors: David Petrosyan, Michael Hoening, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053414 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2423
abstract: We study the emergence of many-body correlations in the stationary state of continuously-driven, strongly-interacting dissipative system. Specifically, we examine resonant optical excitations of Rydberg states of atoms interacting via long-range dipole-dipole and van der Waals potentials employing exact numerical solutions of the density matrix equations and Monte-Carlo simulations. Collection of atoms within a blockade distance form a "superatom" that can accommodate at most one Rydberg excitation. The superatom excitation probability saturates to 1/2 for coherently driven atoms, but is significantly higher for incoherent driving, approaching unity as the number of atoms increases. In the steady state of uniformly-driven, extended one-dimensional system, the saturation of superatoms leads to quasi-crystallization of Rydberg excitations whose correlations exhibit damped spatial oscillations. The behavior of the system under the van der Waals interaction potential can be approximated by an analytically soluble model based on a "hard-rod" interatomic potential.

id: 1212.2436
title: An $xp$ model on $AdS_2$ spacetime
authors: Javier Molina-Vilaplana, Germ¨¢n Sierra
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure, some comments and new references added
journal: Nuclear Physics B 877 (2013), pp. 107-123
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2436
abstract: In this paper we formulate the $xp$ model on the AdS$_2$ spacetime. We find that the spectrum of the Hamiltonian has positive and negative eigenvalues, whose absolute values are given by a harmonic oscillator spectrum, which in turn coincides with that of a massive Dirac fermion in AdS$_2$. We extend this result to generic $xp$ models which are shown to be equivalent to a massive Dirac fermion on spacetimes whose metric depend of the $xp$ Hamiltonian. Finally, we construct the generators of the isometry group SO(2,1) of the AdS$_2$ spacetime, and discuss the relation with conformal quantum mechanics.

id: 1212.2439
title: Analysis of patent activity in the field of quantum information processing
authors: Ryszard Winiarczyk, Piotr Gawron, Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak, ?ukasz Pawela, Zbigniew Pucha?a
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, 6 tables
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. 11, 1350007 (2013)
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2439
abstract: This paper provides an analysis of patent activity in the field of quantum information processing. Data from the PatentScope database from the years 1993-2011 was used. In order to predict the future trends in the number of filed patents time series models were used.

id: 1212.2552
title: Optimal antibunching in passive photonic devices based on coupled nonlinear resonators
authors: S. Ferretti, V. Savona, D. Gerace
comments: to appear in New J. Physics
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 025012 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2552
abstract: We propose the use of weakly nonlinear passive materials for prospective applications in integrated quantum photonics. It is shown that strong enhancement of native optical nonlinearities by electromagnetic field confinement in photonic crystal resonators can lead to single-photon generation only exploiting the quantum interference of two coupled modes and the effect of photon blockade under resonant coherent driving. For realistic system parameters in state of the art microcavities, the efficiency of such single-photon source is theoretically characterized by means of the second-order correlation function at zero time delay as the main figure of merit, where major sources of loss and decoherence are taken into account within a standard master equation treatment. These results could stimulate the realization of integrated quantum photonic devices based on non-resonant material media, fully integrable with current semiconductor technology and matching the relevant telecom band operational wavelengths, as an alternative to single-photon nonlinear devices based on cavity-QED with artificial atoms or single atomic-like emitters.

id: 1212.2575
title: Global well-posedness of the spatially homogeneous Hubbard-Boltzmann equation
authors: Jani Lukkarinen, Peng Mei, Herbert Spohn
comments: 43 pages. Updated the sign conventions of the effective Hamiltonian to follow those used in Ref. [11]. Minor revisions of language and references
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2575
abstract: The Hubbard model is a simplified description for the evolution of interacting spin-1/2 fermions on a d-dimensional lattice. In a kinetic scaling limit, the Hubbard model can be associated with a matrix-valued Boltzmann equation, the Hubbard-Boltzmann equation. Its collision operator is a sum of two qualitatively different terms: The first term is similar to the collision operator of the fermionic Boltzmann-Nordheim equation. The second term leads to a momentum-dependent rotation of the spin basis. The rotation is determined by a principal value integral which depends quadratically on the state of the system and might become singular for non-smooth states. In this paper, we prove that the spatially homogeneous equation nevertheless has global solutions in L^\infty(T^d,C^{2x2}) for any initial data W_0 which satisfies the "Fermi constraint" in the sense that 0 <= W_0 <= 1 almost everywhere. We also prove that there is a unique "physical" solution for which the Fermi constraint holds at all times. For the proof, we need to make a number of assumptions about the lattice dispersion relation which, however, are satisfied by the nearest neighbor Hubbard model, provided that d >= 3. These assumptions suffice to guarantee that, although possibly singular, the local rotation term is generated by a function in L^2(T^d,C^{2x2}).

id: 1212.2613
title: Generalised Gelfand Spectra of Nonabelian Unital C*-Algebras
authors: Andreas Doering
comments: 43 pages, no figures; v2: improved presentation, longer introduction and outlook section, additional references, minor corrections, all main results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2613
abstract: To each unital C*-algebra A we associate a presheaf \Sigma^A, called the spectral presheaf of A, which can be regarded as a generalised Gelfand spectrum. We develop a categorical notion of local duality and show that there is a contravariant functor from the category of unital C*-algebras to a suitable category of presheaves containing the spectral presheaves. We clarify how much algebraic information about a C*-algebra is contained in its spectral presheaf. A nonabelian unital C*-algebra A that is neither isomorphic to C^2 nor to B(C^2) is determined by its spectral presheaf up to quasi-Jordan isomorphisms. For a particular class of unital C*-algebras, including all von Neumann algebras with no type I_2 summand, the spectral presheaf determines the Jordan structure up to isomorphisms.

id: 1212.2634
title: Short-range quantum magnetism of ultracold fermions in an optical lattice
authors: Daniel Greif, Thomas Uehlinger, Gregor Jotzu, Leticia Tarruell, Tilman Esslinger
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Science 340, 1307-1310 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2634
abstract: The exchange coupling between quantum mechanical spins lies at the origin of quantum magnetism. We report on the observation of nearest-neighbor magnetic spin correlations emerging in the many-body state of a thermalized Fermi gas in an optical lattice. The key to obtaining short-range magnetic order is a local redistribution of entropy within the lattice structure. This is achieved in a tunable-geometry optical lattice, which also enables the detection of the magnetic correlations. We load a low-temperature two-component Fermi gas with repulsive interactions into either a dimerized or an anisotropic simple cubic lattice. For both systems the correlations manifest as an excess number of singlets as compared to triplets consisting of two atoms with opposite spins. For the anisotropic lattice, we determine the transverse spin correlator from the singlet-triplet imbalance and observe antiferromagnetic correlations along one spatial axis. Our work paves the way for addressing open problems in quantum magnetism using ultracold fermions in optical lattices as quantum simulators.

id: 1212.2678
title: Quantum critical temperature of a modulated oscillator
authors: Lingzhen Guo, Vittorio Peano, M. Marthaler, M. I. Dykman
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2678
abstract: We show that the rate of switching between the vibrational states of a modulated nonlinear oscillator is characterized by a quantum critical temperature $T_c\propto\hbar^2$. The rate is independent of $T$ for $T<T_c$. Above $T_c$ there emerges a quantum crossover region where the slope of the logarithm of the distribution over the oscillator states displays a kink and the switching rate has the Arrhenius form with the activation energy independent of the modulation. The results demonstrate the limitations of the real-time instanton theory of switching in systems lacking detailed balance.

id: 1212.2679
title: Density matrix embedding: A strong-coupling quantum embedding theory
authors: Gerald Knizia, Garnet Kin-Lic Chan
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Chem. Theory Comput. 9, pp 1428-1432 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2679
abstract: We extend our density matrix embedding theory (DMET) [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109 186404 (2012)] from lattice models to the full chemical Hamiltonian. DMET allows the many-body embedding of arbitrary fragments of a quantum system, even when such fragments are open systems and strongly coupled to their environment (e.g., by covalent bonds). In DMET, empirical approaches to strong coupling, such as link atoms or boundary regions, are replaced by a small, rigorous quantum bath designed to reproduce the entanglement between a fragment and its environment. We describe the theory and demonstrate its feasibility in strongly correlated hydrogen ring and grid models; these are not only beyond the scope of traditional embeddings, but even challenge conventional quantum chemistry methods themselves. We find that DMET correctly describes the notoriously difficult symmetric dissociation of a 4x3 hydrogen atom grid, even when the treated fragments are as small as single hydrogen atoms. We expect that DMET will open up new ways of treating of complex strongly coupled, strongly correlated systems in terms of their individual fragments.

id: 1212.2729
title: Distinguished three-qubit 'magicity' via automorphisms of the split Cayley hexagon
authors: Michel Planat, Metod Saniga, Frederic Holweck
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, 5 tables
journal: Quantum Information Processing 12 (2013) 2535-2549
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2729
abstract: Disregarding the identity, the remaining 63 elements of the generalized three-qubit Pauli group are found to contain 12096 distinct copies of Mermin's magic pentagram. Remarkably, 12096 is also the number of automorphisms of the smallest split Cayley hexagon. We give a few solid arguments showing that this may not be a mere coincidence. These arguments are mainly tied to the structure of certain types of geometric hyperplanes of the hexagon. It is further demonstrated that also an (18_{2}, 12_{3})-type of magic configurations, recently proposed by Waegell and Aravind (J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 405301), seems to be intricately linked with automorphisms of the hexagon. Finally, the entanglement properties exhibited by edges of both pentagrams and these particular Waegell-Aravind configurations are addressed.

id: 1212.2895
title: Spin polarized electrons produced by strong field ionization
authors: Ingo Barth, Olga Smirnova
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013401 (2013) [5 pages]
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2895
abstract: We show that ionization of noble gas atoms by strong infrared circularly polarized laser field under standard exerimental conditions can yield electrons with up to 100% spin polarization in energy resolved measurements. Spin polarization arises due to the interplay of the electron-core entanglement and the sensitivity of ionization in circularly polarized fields to the sense of electron rotation in the initial state.

id: 1212.2947
title: Interaction-induced coherence among polar bosons stored in triple-well potentials
authors: Bo Xiong, Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 8 pages of RevTex4-1, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063608 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2947
abstract: We study first-order spatial coherence for interacting polar bosons trapped in triple-well potentials. It is argued that besides the well-known coherence produced by couplings related to tunneling between the sites, there exists a nonlocal coherence predominantly determined by intersite interactions, which prevails between the outer sites of the triple well when their total filling is odd. We find that the nonlocal interaction-induced coherence originates from the superposition of degenerate many-body states in symmetric triple wells, and demonstrate its robustness against perturbations due to various tunneling mechanisms and thermal fluctuations.

id: 1212.2993
title: All optical quantum control of a spin-quantum state and ultrafast transduction into an electric current
authors: K. M¨¹ller, T. Kaldewey, R. Ripszam, J. S. Wildmann, A. Bechtold, M. Bichler, G. Koblm¨¹ller, G. Abstreiter, J. J. Finley
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1906 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2993
abstract: The ability to control and exploit quantum coherence and entanglement drives research across many fields ranging from ultra-cold quantum gases to spin systems in condensed matter. Transcending different physical systems, optical approaches have proven themselves to be particularly powerful, since they profit from the established toolbox of quantum optical techniques, are state-selective, contact-less and can be extremely fast. Here, we demonstrate how a precisely timed sequence of monochromatic ultrafast (~2-5 ps) optical pulses, with a well defined polarisation can be used to prepare arbitrary superpositions of exciton spin states in a semiconductor quantum dot, achieve ultrafast control of the spin-wavefunction without an applied magnetic field and make high fidelity read-out the quantum state in an arbitrary basis simply by detecting a strong (~2-10$ pA) electric current flowing in an external circuit. The results obtained show that the combined quantum state preparation, control and read-out can be performed with a near-unity (>97%) fidelity. Our methods are fully applicable to other quantum systems and have strong potential for scaling to more complex systems such as molecules and spin-chains.

id: 1212.3020
title: Coherent quantum transport of charge density waves
authors: J. H. Miller Jr, A. I. Wijesinghe, Z. Tang, A. M. Guloy
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures, 2 tables
journal: Physical Review B 87, 115127 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3020
abstract: Recent experiments show oscillations of dominant period h/2e in conductance vs. magnetic flux of charge density wave (CDW) rings above 77 K, revealing macroscopically observable quantum behavior. The time-correlated soliton tunneling model discussed here is based on coherent, Josephson-like tunneling of microscopic quantum solitons of charge 2e. The model interprets the CDW threshold electric field as a Coulomb blockade threshold for soliton pair creation, often much smaller than the classical depinning field but with the same impurity dependence (e.g., ~ ni^2 for for weak pinning). This picture draws upon the theory of time-correlated single-electron tunneling to interpret CDW dynamics above threshold. Similar to Feynman's derivation of the Josephson current-phase relation for a superconducting tunnel junction, the picture treats the Schrodinger equation as an emergent classical equation to describe the time-evolution of Josephson-coupled order parameters related to soliton dislocation droplets. Vector or time-varying scalar potentials can affect the order parameter phases to enable magnetic quantum interference in CDW rings or lead to interesting behavior in response to oscillatory electric fields. The ability to vary both magnitudes and phases is an aspect important to future applications in quantum computing.

id: 1212.3099
title: Environment-governed dynamics in driven quantum systems
authors: S. Gasparinetti, P. Solinas, S. Pugnetti, R. Fazio, J. P. Pekola
comments: 5+1 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 150403 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3099
abstract: We show that the dynamics of a driven quantum system weakly coupled to the environment can exhibit two distinct regimes. While the relaxation basis is usually determined by the system+drive Hamiltonian (system-governed dynamics), we find that under certain conditions it is determined by specific features of the environment, such as, the form of the coupling operator (environment-governed dynamics). We provide an effective coupling parameter describing the transition between the two regimes and discuss how to observe the transition in a superconducting charge pump.

id: 1212.3196
title: D1 and D2 lines in $^{6,7}$Li including QED effects
authors: M. Puchalski, D. Kedziera, K. Pachucki
comments: 7 pages, 5 tables
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3196
abstract: Accurate theoretical predictions including leading QED corrections for $2^2P_{1/2} - 2^2S_{1/2}$ (D1) and $2^2P_{3/2} - 2^2S_{1/2}$ (D2) transition energies have been obtained for $^{6,7}$Li isotopes. Our results for the Bethe logarithms $\ln k_0(2^2S) = 5.178\,169(4)$, and for mass polarization corrections $\Delta \ln k_0(2^2S) = 0.113\,81(3)$ are in disagreement with ones obtained recently in the literature. In contrast, results $\ln k_0(2^2P) = 5.179\,81(7)$ and $\Delta \ln k_0(2^2P) = 0.111\,3(5)$ are in good agreement with them. From our theoretical predictions and recent measurements of $^{6,7}$Li D-lines at NIST, we determine the mean square charge radius difference between $^7$Li and $^6$Li nuclei, in agreement with determinations based on the $3^2S_{1/2}-2^2S_{1/2}$ transition, what demonstrates consistency of atomic spectroscopy determination of fundamental properties of nuclei.

id: 1212.3238
title: The Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model as a particular limit of the SU(1,1) Richardson-Gaudin integrable models
authors: S. H. Lerma, J. Dukelsky
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures. Submitted to NPB
journal: Nucl. Phys. B , Vol. 870, 421-443 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3238
abstract: The Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick (LMG) model has a Schwinger boson realization in terms of a two-level boson pairing Hamiltonian. Through this realization, it has been shown that the LMG model is a particular case of the SU (1, 1) Richardson-Gaudin (RG) integrable models. We exploit the exact solvability of the model tostudy the behavior of the spectral parameters (pairons) that completely determine the wave function in the different phases, and across the phase transitions. Based on the relation between the Richardson equations and the Lam\'e differential equations we develop a method to obtain numerically the pairons. The dynamics of pairons in the ground and excited states provides new insights into the first, second and third order phase transitions, as well as into the crossings taking place in the LMG spectrum.

id: 1212.3270
title: Number-resolved imaging of excited-state atoms using a scanning autoionization microscope
authors: G. Lochead, D. Boddy, D.P. Sadler, C.S. Adams, M.P.A. Jones
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3270
abstract: We report on a scanning microscopy technique for atom-number-resolved imaging of excited-state atoms. A tightly focused laser beam leads to local autoionization, and the resulting ions are counted electronically. Scanning the beam across the cloud builds up an image of the density distribution of excited atoms, with access to the full counting statistics at each spatial sampling point and an overall detection efficiency of 21 %. We apply this technique to the measurement of a spatially inhomogeneous electric field with a spatial resolution of 50 ?m and a sensitivity to electric field gradients of 0.04 V cm$^{-2}$.

id: 1212.3367
title: Equilibration times in clean and noisy systems
authors: Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Sunil Yeshwanth, Stephan Haas
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures. References added
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3367
abstract: We study the equilibration dynamics of closed finite quantum systems and address the question of the time needed for the system to equilibrate. In particular we focus on the scaling of the equilibration time T_{\mathrm{eq}} with the system size L . For clean systems we give general arguments predicting T_{\mathrm{eq}}=O(L^{0}) for clustering initial states, while for small quenches around a critical point we find T_{\mathrm{eq}}=O(L^{\zeta}) where \zeta is the dynamical critical exponent. We then analyze noisy systems where exponentially large time scales are known to exist. Specifically we consider the tight-binding model with diagonal impurities and give numerical evidence that in this case T_{\mathrm{eq}}\sim Be^{CL^{\psi}} where B,C, \psi are observable dependent constants. Finally, we consider another noisy system whose evolution dynamics is randomly sampled from a circular unitary ensemble. Here, we are able to prove analytically that T_{\mathrm{eq}}=O(1), thus showing that noise alone is not sufficient for slow equilibration dynamics.

id: 1212.3416
title: Implicit Lyapunov Control for the Quantum Liouville Equation
authors: Shuang Cong, Fangfang Meng, Jianxiu Liu
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Control Theory and Informatics,Vol. 4, No. 6, pp. 21- 32, 2014
subjects: Systems and Control (cs.SY); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3416
abstract: A quantum system whose internal Hamiltonian is not strongly regular or/and control Hamiltonians are not full connected, are thought to be in the degenerate cases. In this paper, convergence problems of the multi-control Hamiltonians closed quantum systems in the degenerate cases are solved by introducing implicit function perturbations and choosing an implicit Lyapunov function based on the average value of an imaginary mechanical quantity. For the diagonal and non-diagonal tar-get states, respectively, control laws are designed. The convergence of the control system is proved, and an explicit design principle of the imaginary mechanical quantity is proposed. By using the proposed method, the multi-control Hamiltonians closed quantum systems in the degenerate cases can converge from any initial state to an arbitrary target state unitarily equivalent to the initial state. Finally, numerical simulations are studied to verify the effectiveness of the proposed control method.

id: 1212.3461
title: Reducing the effect of thermal noise in optical cavities
authors: Sana Amairi, Thomas Legero, Thomas Kessler, Uwe Sterr, Jannes B. W¨¹bbena, Olaf Mandel, Piet O. Schmidt
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3461
abstract: Thermal noise in optical cavities imposes a severe limitation in the stability of the most advanced frequency standards at a level of a few 10^(-16) (s/t)^(1/2) for long averaging times t. In this paper we describe two schemes for reducing the effect of thermal noise in a reference cavity. In the first approach, we investigate the potential and limitations of operating the cavity close to instability, where the beam diameter on the mirrors becomes large. Our analysis shows that even a 10 cm short cavity can achieve a thermal noise limited fractional frequency instability in the low 10^(-16) regime. In the second approach, we increase the length of the optical cavity. We show that a 39.5 cm long cavity has the potential for a fractional frequency instability even below 10^(-16), while it seems feasible to achieve a reduced sensitivity of <10^(-10)/g for vibration-induced fractional length changes in all three directions.

id: 1212.3474
title: Two-step rational extensions of the harmonic oscillator: exceptional orthogonal polynomials and ladder operators
authors: I. Marquette, C. Quesne
comments: 22 pages, no figure, published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 155201
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3474
abstract: The type III Hermite $X_m$ exceptional orthogonal polynomial family is generalized to a double-indexed one $X_{m_1,m_2}$ (with $m_1$ even and $m_2$ odd such that $m_2 > m_1$) and the corresponding rational extensions of the harmonic oscillator are constructed by using second-order supersymmetric quantum mechanics. The new polynomials are proved to be expressible in terms of mixed products of Hermite and pseudo-Hermite ones, while some of the associated potentials are linked with rational solutions of the Painlev\'e IV equation. A novel set of ladder operators for the extended oscillators is also built and shown to satisfy a polynomial Heisenberg algebra of order $m_2-m_1+1$, which may alternatively be interpreted in terms of a special type of $(m_2-m_1+2)$th-order shape invariance property.

id: 1212.3488
title: Assessment of density functional methods with correct asymptotic behavior
authors: Chen-Wei Tsai, Yu-Chuan Su, Guan-De Li, Jeng-Da Chai
comments: accepted for publication in Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 46 pages, 4 figures, supplementary material included
journal: Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 15, 8352 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3488
abstract: Long-range corrected (LC) hybrid functionals and asymptotically corrected (AC) model potentials are two distinct density functional methods with correct asymptotic behavior. They are known to be accurate for properties that are sensitive to the asymptote of the exchange-correlation potential, such as the highest occupied molecular orbital energies and Rydberg excitation energies of molecules. To provide a comprehensive comparison, we investigate the performance of the two schemes and others on a very wide range of applications, including the asymptote problems, self-interaction-error problems, energy-gap problems, charge-transfer problems, and many others. The LC hybrid scheme is shown to consistently outperform the AC model potential scheme. In addition, to be consistent with the molecules collected in the IP131 database [Y.-S. Lin, C.-W. Tsai, G.-D. Li, and J.-D. Chai, J. Chem. Phys., 2012, 136, 154109], we expand the EA115 and FG115 databases to include, respectively, the vertical electron affinities and fundamental gaps of the additional 16 molecules, and develop a new database AE113 (113 atomization energies), consisting of accurate reference values for the atomization energies of the 113 molecules in IP131. These databases will be useful for assessing the accuracy of density functional methods.

id: 1212.3538
title: Approach to equilibrium in the Caldeira-Leggett Model
authors: Venkitesh Ayyar, Berndt M¨¹ller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3538
abstract: The Caldeira-Leggett model describes a microscopic quantum system, represented by a harmonic oscillator, in interaction with a heat bath, represented by a large number of harmonic oscillators with a range of frequencies. We consider the case when the system oscillator starts out in the ground state and then thermalizes due to interactions with the heat bath, which is at temperature $\theta$. We calculate the position autocorrelation function $<x(t')x(t)>$ of the system oscillator at two different times and study its behaviour in the small and large time limits. Our results show that the system oscillator thermalizes as expected. We also confirm by explicit calculation that the position autocorrelation function exhibits periodicity for imaginary values of the time difference $t'-t = i\tau$ at late (real) times $t$.

id: 1212.3565
title: Single-branch theory of ultracold Fermi gases with artificial Rashba spin-orbit coupling
authors: Daniel Maldonado-Mundo, Patrik Ohberg, Manuel Valiente
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 134002 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3565
abstract: We consider interacting ultracold fermions subject to Rashba spin-orbit coupling. We construct a single-branch interacting theory for the Fermi gas when the system is dilute enough so that the positive helicity branch is not occupied at all in the non-interacting ground state. We show that the theory is renormalizable in perturbation theory and therefore yields a model of polarized fermions that avoids a multi-channel treatment of the problem. Our results open the path towards a much more straightforward approach to the many-body physics of cold atoms subject to artificial vector potentials.

id: 1212.3663
title: Damping and Pseudo-fermions
authors: Fabio Bagarello
comments: in press in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3663
abstract: After a short abstract introduction on the time evolution driven by non self-adjoint hamiltonians, we show how the recently introduced concept of {\em pseudo-fermion} can be used in the description of damping in finite dimensional quantum systems, and we compare the results deduced adopting the Schr\"odinger and the Heisenberg representations.

id: 1212.3700
title: Elimination of the Translational Kinetic Energy Contamination in pre-Born-Oppenheimer Calculations
authors: Benjamin Simmen, Edit M¨¢tyus, Markus Reiher
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3700
abstract: In this paper we present a simple strategy for the elimination of the translational kinetic energy contamination of the total energy in pre-Born--Oppenheimer calculations carried out in laboratory-fixed Cartesian coordinates (LFCCs). The simple expressions for the coordinates and the operators are thus preserved throughout the calculations, while the mathematical form and the parametrisation of the basis functions are chosen so that the translational and rotational invariances are respected. The basis functions are constructed using explicitly correlated Gaussian functions (ECGs) and the global vector representation. First, we observe that it is not possible to parametrise the ECGs so that the system is at rest in LFCCs and at the same time the basis functions are square-integrable with a non-vanishing norm. Then, we work out a practical strategy to circumvent this problem by making use of the properties of the linear transformation between the LFCCs and translationally invariant and center-of-mass Cartesian coordinates as well as the transformation properties of the corresponding basis function parameter matrices. By exploiting these formal mathematical relationships we can identify and separate the translational contamination terms in the matrix representation of the kinetic energy operator in the LFCC formalism. We present numerical examples for the translational contamination and its elimination for the two lowest rotational energy levels of the singlet hydrogen molecule, corresponding to para- and ortho-H2, respectively, treated as four-particle quantum systems.

id: 1212.3718
title: Product vacua with boundary states and the classification of gapped phases
authors: Sven Bachmann, Bruno Nachtergaele
comments: 
journal: Commun. Math. Phys., 329, 509-544 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3718
abstract: We address the question of the classification of gapped ground states in one dimension that cannot be distinguished by a local order parameter. We introduce a family of quantum spin systems on the one-dimensional chain that have a unique gapped ground state in the thermodynamic limit that is a simple product state but which on the left and right half-infinite chains, have additional zero energy edge states. The models, which we call Product Vacua with Boundary States (PVBS), form phases that depend only on two integers corresponding to the number of edge states at each boundary. They can serve as representatives of equivalence classes of such gapped ground states phases and we show how the AKLT model and its $SO(2J+1)$-invariant generalizations fit into this classification.

id: 1212.3728
title: Enhancement of strong-field multiple ionization in the vicinity of the conical intersection in 1,3-cyclohexadiene ring opening
authors: Vladimir S. Petrovic, Sebastian Schorb, Jaehee Kim, James White, James P. Cryan, J. Michael Glownia, Lucas Zipp, Douglas Broege, Shungo Miyabe, Hongli Tao, Todd Martinez, Philip H. Bucksbaum
comments: The manuscript has been accepted for publication at the Journal of Chemical Physics (October 28 2013)
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3728
abstract: Nonradiative energy dissipation in electronically excited polyatomic molecules proceeds through conical intersections, loci of degeneracy between electronic states. We observe a marked enhancement of laser-induced double ionization in the vicinity of a conical intersection during a non-radiative transition. We measured double ionization by detecting the kinetic energy of ions released by laser-induced strong-field fragmentation during the ring-opening transition between 1,3-cyclohexadiene and 1,3,5-hexatriene. The enhancement of the double ionization correlates with the conical intersection between the HOMO and LUMO orbitals.

id: 1212.4006
title: A variational approach to Bogoliubov excitations and dynamics of dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Manuel Kreibich, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 27 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 46, 045302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4006
abstract: We investigate the stability properties and the dynamics of Bose-Einstein condensates with axial symmetry, especially with dipolar long-range interaction, using both simulations on grids and variational calculations. We present an extended variational ansatz which is applicable for axial symmetry and show that this ansatz can reproduce the lowest eigenfrequencies of the Bogoliubov spectrum, and also the corresponding eigenfunctions. Our variational ansatz is capable of describing the roton instability of pancake-shaped dipolar condensates for arbitrary angular momenta. After investigating the linear regime we apply the ansatz to determine the dynamics and show how the angular collapse is correctly described within the variational framework.

id: 1212.4028
title: Spinor wave equation of photon
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Bo-Jun Zhang, Xiao-Jing Liu, Si-Qi Zhang, Jing Wang, Hong Li, Xi-Hui Fan, Jing-Wu Li
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4028
abstract: In this paper, we give the spinor wave equations of free and unfree photon, which are the differential equation of space-time one order. For the free photon, the spinor wave equations are covariant, and the spinors $\psi$ are corresponding to the the reducibility representations $D^{10}+D^{01}$ and $D^{10}+D^{01}+D^{1/2 1/2}$ of the proper Lorentz group.

id: 1212.4047
title: dc conductivity as a geometric phase
authors: Bal¨¢zs Het¨¦nyi
comments: minor changes compared to previous version, and reference added
journal: Physical Review B vol. 87 235123 (2013)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4047
abstract: The zero frequency conductivity ($D_c$), the criterion to distinguish between conductors and insulators is expressed in terms of a geometric phase. $D_c$ is also expressed using the formalism of the modern theory of polarization. The tenet of Kohn [{\it Phys. Rev.} {\bf 133} A171 (1964)], namely, that insulation is due to localization in the many-body space, is refined as follows. Wavefunctions which are eigenfunctions of the total current operator give rise to a finite $D_c$ and are therefore metallic. They are also delocalized. Several examples which corroborate the results are presented, as well as a numerical implementation. The formalism is also applied to the Hall conductance, and the quantization condition for zero Hall conductance is derived to be $\frac{e\Phi_B}{N h c} = \frac{Q}{M}$, with $Q$ and $M$ integers.

id: 1212.4051
title: Spectral Gaps of Spin-orbit Coupled Particles in Deformed Traps
authors: O. V. Marchukov, A. G. Volosniev, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures, published version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 134012
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4051
abstract: We consider a spin-orbit coupled system of particles in an external trap that is represented by a deformed harmonic oscillator potential. The spin-orbit interaction is a Rashba interaction that does not commute with the trapping potential and requires a full numerical treatment in order to obtain the spectrum. The effect of a Zeeman term is also considered. Our results demonstrate that variable spectral gaps occur as a function of strength of the Rashba interaction and deformation of the harmonic trapping potential. The single-particle density of states and the critical strength for superfluidity vary tremendously with the interaction parameter. The strong variations with Rashba coupling and deformation implies that the few- and many-body physics of spin-orbit coupled systems can be manipulated by variation of these parameters.

id: 1212.4059
title: Theory of strong-field injection and control of photocurrent in dielectrics and wide bandgap semiconductors
authors: Stanislav Yu. Kruchinin, Michael Korbman, Vladislav S. Yakovlev
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 115201 (2013)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4059
abstract: We propose a theory of optically-induced currents in dielectrics and wide-gap semiconductors exposed to a non-resonant ultrashort laser pulse with a stabilized carrier-envelope phase. In order to describe strong-field electron dynamics, equations for density matrix have been solved self-consistently with equations for the macroscopic electric field inside the medium, which we model by a one-dimensional potential. We provide a detailed analysis of physically important quantities (band populations, macroscopic polarization, and transferred charge), which reveals that carrier-envelope phase control of the electric current can be interpreted as a result of quantum-mechanical interference of multiphoton excitation channels. Our numerical results are in good agreement with experimental data.

id: 1212.4109
title: Topological Phase Transitions in the Golden String-Net Model
authors: M. D. Schulz, S. Dusuel, K. P. Schmidt, J. Vidal
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 147203 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4109
abstract: We examine the zero-temperature phase diagram of the two-dimensional Levin-Wen string-net model with Fibonacci anyons in the presence of competing interactions. Combining high-order series expansions around three exactly solvable points and exact diagonalizations, we find that the non-Abelian doubled Fibonacci topological phase is separated from two nontopological phases by different second-order quantum critical points, the positions of which are computed accurately. These trivial phases are separated by a first-order transition occurring at a fourth exactly solvable point where the ground-state manifold is infinitely many degenerate. The evaluation of critical exponents suggests unusual universality classes.

id: 1212.4173
title: Vibrational state inversion of a Bose-Einstein condensate: optimal control and state tomography
authors: Robert B¨¹cker, Tarik Berrada, Sandrine van Frank, Jean-Fran?ois Schaff, Thorsten Schumm, J?rg Schmiedmayer, Georg J?ger, Julian Grond, Ulrich Hohenester
comments: 27 pages, 15 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 104012 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4173
abstract: We present theoretical and experimental results on high-fidelity transfer of a trapped Bose-Einstein condensate into its first vibrationally excited eigenstate. The excitation is driven by mechanical motion of the trap, along a trajectory obtained from optimal control theory. Excellent agreement between theory and experiment is found over a large range of parameters. We develop an approximate model to map the dynamics of the many-body condensate wave function to a driven two-level system.

id: 1212.4251
title: The Scattering amplitude for Newly found exactly solvable Potential
authors: Rajesh Kumar Yadav, Avinash Khare, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: 6 pages, Latex
journal: Annals of Physics 331, 313 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4251
abstract: The scattering amplitude for the recently discovered exactly solvable shape invariant potential, which is isospectral to the generalized P\"oschl-Taylor potential, is calculated explicitly by considering the asymptotic behavior of the $X_{1}$ Jacobi exceptional polynomials associated with this system.

id: 1212.4254
title: Dissipative quantum systems: from two to many atoms
authors: Dario Poletti, Jean-Sebastien Bernier, Antoine Georges, Corinna Kollath
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Proceedings of the Annual International Conference on Optoelectronics, Photonics & Applied Physics, (GSTF, Singapore, 2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4254
abstract: We study the dynamics of bosonic atoms in a double well potential under the influence of dissipation. The main effect of dissipation is to destroy quantum coherence and to drive the system towards a unique steady state. We study how the atom-atom interaction affects the decoherence process. We use a systematic approach considering different atomic densities. We show that, for two atoms, the interaction already strongly suppresses decoherence: a phenomenon we refer to as "interaction impeded decoherence". For many atoms, thanks to the increased complexity of the system, the nature of the decoherence process is dramatically altered giving rise to an algebraic instead of exponential decay.

id: 1212.4263
title: Nonlinear dissipative dynamics of a two-component atomic condensate coupling with a continuum
authors: Honghua Zhong, Qiongtao Xie, Jun Xu, Wenhua Hai, Chaohong Lee
comments: to appear in Chin. Phys. B
journal: Chin. Phys. B 23, (2014) 020314
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4263
abstract: We investigate the nonlinear dissipative coherence bifurcation and population dynamics of a two-component atomic Bose-Einstein condensate coupling with a continuum. The coupling between the two-component condensates and the continuum brings effective dissipations to the two-component condensates. The steady states and the coherence bifurcation depend on both dissipation and the nonlinear interaction between condensed atoms. The coherence among condensed atoms may be even enhanced by the effective dissipations. The combination of dissipation and nonlinearity allows one to control the switching between different self-trapped states or the switching between a self-trapped state and a non-self-trapped state.

id: 1212.4323
title: Resonance states in a cylindrical quantum dot with an external magnetic field
authors: Alba Y Ramos, Omar Osenda
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47 (2014) 015502
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4323
abstract: Bound and resonance states of quantum dots play a significant role in photo-absorption processes. In this work, we analyze a cylindrical quantum dot, its spectrum and, in particular, the behaviour of the lowest resonance state when a magnetic field is applied along the symmetry axis of the cylinder. To obtain the energy and width of the resonance we use the complex rotation method. As it is expected the structure of the spectrum is strongly influenced by the Landau levels associated to the magnetic field. We show how this structure affects the behaviour of the resonance state and that the binding of the resonance has a clear interpretation in terms of the Landau levels and the probability of localization of the resonance state. The localization probability and the fidelity of the lowest energy state allows to identify two different physical regimes, a large field-small quantum dot radius regime and a small field-large quantum dot radius, where the binding of the resonance is dominated by the field strength or the potential well, respectively.

id: 1212.4324
title: Influence of Rashba and Dresselhaus spin-orbit interactions of equal strengths on electron states in a circular quantum ring in the presence of a magnetic field
authors: V. V. Kudryashov, A. V. Baran
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Nonlinear Phenomena in Complex Systems, vol. 15, no. 2 (2012), pp. 185-190
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4324
abstract: Solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation are obtained for an electron in a two-dimensional circular semiconductor quantum ring in the presence of both external uniform constant magnetic field and the Rashba and Dresselhaus spin-orbit interactions of equal strengths. Confinement is simulated by a realistic potential well of a finite depth. The dependence of the energy levels on a magnetic field strength, strength of spin-orbit interaction and a relative ring width is presented.

id: 1212.4382
title: An optically resolvable Schr?dinger's cat from Rydberg dressed cold atom clouds
authors: S. M?bius, M. Genkin, A. Eisfeld, S. W¨¹ster, J.-M. Rost
comments: 4(+2) pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4382
abstract: In Rydberg dressed ultra-cold gases, ground state atoms inherit properties of a weakly admixed Rydberg state, such as sensitivity to long-range interactions. We show that through hyperfine-state dependent interactions, a pair of atom clouds can evolve into a spin and subsequently into a spatial Schr\"odinger's cat state: The pair, containing 20 atoms in total, is in a coherent superposition of two configurations, with cloud locations separated by micrometers. The mesoscopic nature of the superposition state can be proven with absorption imaging, while the coherence can be revealed though recombination and interference of the split wave packets.

id: 1212.4422
title: Charge induced coherence between intersubband plasmons in a quantum structure
authors: Aymeric Delteil, Angela Vasanelli, Yanko Todorov, Cheryl Feuillet-Palma, Margaux Renaudat St-Jean, Gr¨¦goire Beaudoin, Isabelle Sagnes, Carlo Sirtori
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 246808 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4422
abstract: In this work we investigate a low dimensional semiconductor system, in which the light-matter interaction is enhanced by the cooperative behavior of a large number of dipolar oscillators, at different frequencies, mutually phase locked by Coulomb interaction. We experimentally and theoretically demonstrate that, owing to this phenomenon, the optical response of a semiconductor quantum well with several occupied subbands is a single sharp resonance, associated to the excitation of a bright multisubband plasmon. This effect illustrates how the whole oscillator strength of a two-dimensional system can be concentrated into a single resonance independently from the shape of the confining potential. When this cooperative excitation is tuned in resonance with a cavity mode, their coupling strength can be increased monotonically with the electronic density, allowing the achievement of the ultra-strong coupling regime up to room temperature.

id: 1212.4453
title: Bose-Einstein condensation of atoms in a uniform potential
authors: Alexander L. Gaunt, Tobias F. Schmidutz, Igor Gotlibovych, Robert P. Smith, Zoran Hadzibabic
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 200406 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4453
abstract: We have observed Bose-Einstein condensation of an atomic gas in the (quasi-)uniform three-dimensional potential of an optical box trap. Condensation is seen in the bimodal momentum distribution and the anisotropic time-of-flight expansion of the condensate. The critical temperature agrees with the theoretical prediction for a uniform Bose gas. The momentum distribution of our non-condensed quantum-degenerate gas is also clearly distinct from the conventional case of a harmonically trapped sample and close to the expected distribution in a uniform system. We confirm the coherence of our condensate in a matter-wave interference experiment. Our experiments open many new possibilities for fundamental studies of many-body physics.

id: 1212.4459
title: The Dunkl oscillator in the plane I : superintegrability, separated wavefunctions and overlap coefficients
authors: Vincent X. Genest, Mourad E.H. Ismail, Luc Vinet, Alexei Zhedanov
comments: 25 pages; Added references; Added appendix on anti-Hermicity of the Dunkl derivative
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 145201 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4459
abstract: The isotropic Dunkl oscillator model in the plane is investigated. The model is defined by a Hamiltonian constructed from the combination of two independent parabosonic oscillators. The system is superintegrable and its symmetry generators are obtained by the Schwinger construction using parabosonic creation/annihilation operators. The algebra generated by the constants of motion, which we term the Schwinger-Dunkl algebra, is an extension of the Lie algebra u(2) with involutions. The system admits separation of variables in both Cartesian and polar coordinates. The separated wavefunctions are respectively expressed in terms of generalized Hermite polynomials and products of Jacobi and Laguerre polynomials. Moreover, the so-called Jacobi-Dunkl polynomials appear as eigenfunctions of the symmetry operator responsible for the separation of variables in polar coordinates. The expansion coefficients between the Cartesian and polar bases (overlap coefficients) are given as linear combinations of dual -1 Hahn polynomials. The connection with the Clebsch-Gordan problem of the sl_{-1}(2) algebra is explained.

id: 1212.4523
title: Electric-field control of exciton fine structure: atomic scale manipulation of exchange splitting
authors: Garnett W. Bryant, Natalia Malkova, James Sims
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4523
abstract: We use atomistic tight-binding theory with a configuration interaction description of Coulomb and exchange effects to describe excitons in symmetric quantum dots in a vertical electric field. We show that field-induced manipulation of exciton orientation and phase produces a drastic reduction of fine structure splitting, an anticrossing, and a 90 degree rotation of polarization, similar to experiment. An atomistic analysis is needed to explain how exciton reorientation modifies anisotropic exchange and fine structure splitting without significantly altering other splittings.

id: 1212.4552
title: The ground state of the ${\rm H}_3^+$ molecular ion: physics behind
authors: A. V. Turbiner, J. C. Lopez Vieyra
comments: 26 pages, 2 figures, 4 tables, invited contribution to Takeshi Oka Festschrift: Celebrating 45 Years of Astrochemistry, accepted to Jour Phys Chem typos corrected, Introduction and Conclusions are extended
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4552
abstract: Five physics mechanisms of interaction leading to the binding of the ${\rm H}_3^+$ molecular ion are identified. They are realized in a form of variational trial functions and their respective total energies are calculated. Each of them provides subsequently the most accurate approximation for the Born-Oppenheimer (BO) ground state energy among (two-three-seven)-parametric trial functions being correspondingly, H$_2$-molecule plus proton (two variational parameters), H$_2^+$-ion plus H-atom (three variational parameters) and generalized Guillemin-Zener (seven variational parameters). These trial functions are chosen following a criterion of physical adequacy. They include the electronic correlation in the exponential form $\sim\exp{(\gamma r_{12})}$, where $\gamma$ is a variational parameter. Superpositions of two different mechanisms of binding are investigated and a particular one, which is a generalized Guillemin-Zener plus H$_2$-molecule plus proton (ten variational parameters), provides the total energy at the equilibrium of $E=-1.3432$\ a.u. The superposition of three mechanisms: generalized Guillemin-Zener plus (H$_2$ -molecule plus proton) plus (H$_2^+$ -ion plus H) (fourteen parameters) leads to the total energy which deviates from the best known BO energy to $\sim 0.0004$\ a.u., {\it it reproduces two-three significant digits in exact, non-BO total energy}. In general, our variational energy agrees in two-three-four significant digits with the most accurate results available at present as well as major expectation values.

id: 1212.4570
title: Half-integer Mott-insulator phases in the imbalanced honeycomb lattice
authors: Krzysztof Gawryluk, Christian Miniatura, Beno?t Gr¨¦maud
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 063615 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4570
abstract: Using mean-field theory, we investigate the ground state properties of ultracold bosons loaded in a honeycomb lattice with on-site repulsive interactions and imbalanced nearest-neighbor hopping amplitudes. Taking into account correlations between strongly coupled neighboring sites through an improved Gutzwiller ansatz, we predict the existence of half-integer Mott-insulator phases, i.e. states with half-integer filling and vanishing compressibility. These insulating phases result from the interplay between quantum correlations and the topology of the honeycomb lattice, and could be easily addressed experimentally as they have clear signatures in momentum space.

id: 1212.4594
title: Comment to the paper: 'Seeded quantum FEL at 478 keV' AIP Conf. Proc. 'Light at Extreme Intensities' 1462 173-176 (2012)'
authors: Vittoria Petrillo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4594
abstract: We criticize the thesis exposed the paper 'Seeded quantum FEL at 478 keV' AIP Conf. Proc. 'Light at Extreme Intensities,' 1462 173-176 (2012), which presents the possibility of producing gamma rays at 478 KeV by means of a seeded quantum FEL driven by an electron beam at 125 MeV, current I=40 A, interacting with an infrared laser. We show that, in the case analyzed, the FEL Pierce parameter has a value two orders of magnitude less than what claimed in the paper in question, overturning the conclusions of the analysis.

id: 1212.4612
title: Spin-Orbital Entanglement Emerging from Frustration in the Kugel-Khomskii Model
authors: W. Brzezicki, A. M. Ole?
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, Proceedings of SCES11, Cambridge (2011)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Series 391, 012085 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4612
abstract: We investigate the zero-temperature phase diagrams of the bilayer square-lattice Kugel-Khomskii ($d^9$) model involving entangled and singlet phases using mean-field cluster approach. This diagram includes interlayer singlet phase observed in fluoride K$_3$Cu$_2$F$_7$ and exotic entangled spin-orbital phases. For a monolayer case, realized in K$_2$CuF$_4$, we perform similar calculations in finite temperature and show that the alternating-orbital ferromagnet decays first to an entangled uniform ferromagnet and then to a paramagnetic phase. Published in: J. Phys.: Conf. Series 391, 012085 (2012).

id: 1212.4615
title: Time evolution and adiabatic approximation in $PT$-symmetric quantum mechanics
authors: Zhihua Guo, Huaixin Cao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4615
abstract: In this paper, we discuss time evolution and adiabatic approximation in $PT$-symmetric quantum mechanics. we give the time evolving equation for a class of $PT$-symmetric Hamiltonians and some conditions of the adiabatic approximation for the class of $PT$-symmetric Hamiltonians.

id: 1212.4635
title: Optically guided linear Mach Zehnder atom interferometer
authors: G. D. McDonald, H. Keal, P. A. Altin, J. E. Debs, S. Bennetts, C. C. N. Kuhn, K. S. Hardman, M. T. Johnsson, J. D. Close, N. P. Robins
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013632 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4635
abstract: We demonstrate a horizontal, linearly guided Mach Zehnder atom interferometer in an optical waveguide. Intended as a proof-of-principle experiment, the interferometer utilises a Bose-Einstein condensate in the magnetically insensitive |F=1,mF=0> state of Rubidium-87 as an acceleration sensitive test mass. We achieve a modest sensitivity to acceleration of da = 7x10^-4 m/s^2. Our fringe visibility is as high as 38% in this optically guided atom interferometer. We observe a time-of-flight in the waveguide of over half a second, demonstrating the utility of our optical guide for future sensors.

id: 1212.4637
title: Emergence of glass-like dynamics for dissipative and strongly interacting bosons
authors: Dario Poletti, Peter Barmettler, Antoine Georges, Corinna Kollath
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 195301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4637
abstract: We study the dynamics of a strongly interacting bosonic quantum gas in an optical lattice potential under the effect of a dissipative environment. We show that the interplay between the dissipative process and the Hamiltonian evolution leads to an unconventional dynamical behavior of local number fluctuations. In particular we show, both analytically and numerically, the emergence of an anomalous diffusive evolution in configuration space at short times and, at long times, an unconventional dynamics dominated by rare events. Such rare events, common in disordered and frustrated systems, are due here to strong interactions. This complex two-stage dynamics reveals information on the level structure of the strongly interacting gas.

id: 1212.4653
title: Convolutional Codes Derived From Group Character Codes
authors: Giuliano G. La Guardia
comments: Accepted for publication in Discrete Math
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4653
abstract: New families of unit memory as well as multi-memory convolutional codes are constructed algebraically in this paper. These convolutional codes are derived from the class of group character codes. The proposed codes have basic generator matrices, consequently, they are non catastrophic. Additionally, the new code parameters are better than the ones available in the literature.

id: 1212.4655
title: Fidelity, Rosen-Zener Dynamics, Entropy and Decoherence in one dimensional hard-core bosonic systems
authors: Sthitadhi Roy, Tanay Nag, Amit Dutta
comments: To appear in European Physical Journal B
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B, 86 5 (2013) 204
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4655
abstract: We study the non-equilibrium dynamics of a one-dimensional system of hard core bosons (HCBs) in the presence of an onsite potential (with an alternating sign between the odd and even sites) which shows a quantum phase transition (QPT) from the superfluid (SF) phase to the so-called "Mott Insulator" (MI) phase. The ground state quantum fidelity shows a sharp dip at the quantum critical point (QCP) while the fidelity susceptibility shows a divergence right there with its scaling given in terms of the correlation length exponent of the QPT. We then study the evolution of this bosonic system following a quench in which the magnitude of the alternating potential is changed starting from zero (the SF phase) to a non-zero value (the MI phase) according to a half Rosen Zener (HRZ) scheme or brought back to the initial value following a full Rosen Zener (FRZ) scheme. The local von Neumann entropy density is calculated in the final MI phase (following the HRZ quench) and is found to be less than the equilibrium value ($\log 2$) due to the defects generated in the final state as a result of the quenching starting from the QCP of the system. We also briefly dwell on the FRZ quenching scheme in which the system is finally in the SF phase through the intermediate MI phase and calculate the reduction in the supercurrent and the non-zero value of the residual local entropy density in the final state. Finally, the loss of coherence of a qubit (globally and weekly coupled to the HCB system) which is initially in a pure state is investigated by calculating the time-dependence of the decoherence factor when the HCB chain evolves under a HRZ scheme starting from the SF phase. This result is compared with that of the sudden quench limit of the half Rosen-Zener scheme where an exact analytical form of the decoherence factor can be derived.

id: 1212.4685
title: Dark-state suppression and optimization of laser cooling and fluorescence in a trapped alkaline-earth-metal single ion
authors: T. Lindvall, M. Merimaa, I. Tittonen, A. A. Madej
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033403 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4685
abstract: We study the formation and destabilization of dark states in a single trapped 88Sr+ ion caused by the cooling and repumping laser fields required for Doppler cooling and fluorescence detection of the ion. By numerically solving the time-dependent density matrix equations for the eight-level system consisting of the sublevels of the 5s 2S1/2, 5p 2P1/2, and 4d 2D3/2 states, we analyze the different types of dark states and how to prevent them in order to maximize the scattering rate, which is crucial for both the cooling and the detection of the ion. The influence of the laser linewidths and ion motion on the scattering rate and the dark resonances is studied. The calculations are then compared with experimental results obtained with an endcap ion trap system located at the National Research Council of Canada and found to be in good agreement. The results are applicable also to other alkaline earth ions and isotopes without hyperfine structure.

id: 1212.4691
title: Cavity Optomechanics of Levitated Nano-Dumbbells: Non-Equilibrium Phases and Self-Assembly
authors: W. Lechner, S. J. M. Habraken, N. Kiesel, M. Aspelmeyer, P. Zoller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 143604 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4691
abstract: Levitated nanospheres in optical cavities open a novel route to study many-body systems out of solution and highly isolated from the environment. We show that properly tuned optical parameters allow for the study of the non-equilibrium dynamics of composite nano-particles with non-isotropic optical friction. We find friction induced ordering and nematic transitions with non-equilibrium analogs to liquid crystal phases for ensembles of dimers.

id: 1212.4721
title: Ultracold dipolar few-boson ensembles in a triple well trap
authors: Budhaditya Chatterjee, Ioannis Brouzos, Lushuai Cao, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4721
abstract: We investigate the ground state properties and tunneling dynamics of ultracold dipolar bosons in a one dimensional triple well trap from a few-body ab-initio perspective. Our focus is primarily on the distinctive features of dipolar bosons compared to the contact interacting bosons. Formation of intra-well localization is observed for very strong dipolar interaction. General population rearangement as well as fragmentation and localization effects have been found, depending strongly on the particle number. The energy spectrum for two particles exhibits avoided crossings that lead to several distinct resonances involving different bands, i.e. to an inter-band resonant tunneling dynamics. The corresponding mechanisms are investigated by studying among others the pair-probability and performing an eigenstate analysis.

id: 1212.4764
title: Holographic Mutual Information at Finite Temperature
authors: Willy Fischler, Arnab Kundu, Sandipan Kundu
comments: 27 pages, 6 figures, references added, typos fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 126012 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4764
abstract: Using the Ryu-Takayanagi conjectured formula for entanglement entropy in the context of gauge-gravity duality, we investigate properties of mutual information between two disjoint rectangular sub-systems in finite temperature relativistic conformal field theories in d-spacetime dimensions and non-relativistic scale-invariant theories in some generic examples. In all these cases mutual information undergoes a transition beyond which it is identically zero. We study this transition in detail and find universal qualitative features for the above class of theories which has holographic dual descriptions. We also obtain analytical results for mutual information in the specific regime of the parameter space. This demonstrates that mutual information contains the quantum entanglement part of the entanglement entropy, which is otherwise dominated by the thermal entropy at large temperatures.

id: 1212.4805
title: Three-Dimensional Shape Invariant Non-Separable Model With Equidistant Spectrum
authors: M. S. Bardavelidze, F. Cannata, M. V. Ioffe, D. N. Nishnianidze
comments: 19 pages
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 54 (2013) 012107
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4805
abstract: A class of three-dimensional models which satisfy supersymmetric intertwining relations with the simplest - oscillator-like - variant of shape invariance is constructed. It is proved that the models are not amenable to conventional separation of variables for the complex potentials, but their spectra are real and equidistant (like for isotropic harmonic oscillator). The special case of such potential with quadratic interaction is solved completely. The Hamiltonian of the system is non-diagonalizable, and its wave functions and associated functions are built analytically. The symmetry properties of the model and degeneracy of energy levels are studied.

id: 1212.4815
title: Quasi-adiabatic quantum Monte Carlo algorithm for quantum evolution in imaginary time
authors: Cheng-Wei Liu, Anatoli Polkovnikov, Anders W. Sandvik
comments: 13+ pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 174302 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4815
abstract: We propose a quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) algorithm for non-equilibrium dynamics in a system with a parameter varying as a function of time. The method is based on successive applications of an evolving Hamiltonian to an initial state and delivers results for a whole range of the tuning parameter in a single run, allowing for access to both static and dynamic properties of the system. This approach reduces to the standard Schr\"odinger dynamics in imaginary time for quasi-adiabatic evolutions, i.e., including the leading non-adiabatic correction to the adiabatic limit. We here demonstrate this quasi-adiabatic QMC (QAQMC) method for linear ramps of the transverse-field Ising model across its quantum-critical point in one and two dimensions. The critical behavior can be described by generalized dynamic scaling. For the two-dimensional square-lattice system we use the method to obtain a high-precision estimate of the quantum-critical point $(h/J)_c=3.04463(12)$, where $h$ is the transverse magnetic field and $J$ the nearest-neighbor Ising coupling. The QAQMC method can also be used to extract the Berry curvature and the metric tensor.

id: 1212.4824
title: Controlling the dynamics of an open many-body quantum system with localized dissipation
authors: G. Barontini, R. Labouvie, F. Stubenrauch, A. Vogler, V. Guarrera, H. Ott
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4824
abstract: We experimentally investigate the action of a localized dissipative potential on a macroscopic matter wave, which we implement by shining an electron beam on an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). We measure the losses induced by the dissipative potential as a function of the dissipation strength observing a paradoxical behavior when the strength of the dissipation exceeds a critical limit: for an increase of the dissipation rate the number of atoms lost from the BEC becomes lower. We repeat the experiment for different parameters of the electron beam and we compare our results with a simple theoretical model, finding excellent agreement. By monitoring the dynamics induced by the dissipative defect we identify the mechanisms which are responsible for the observed paradoxical behavior. We finally demonstrate the link between our dissipative dynamics and the measurement of the density distribution of the BEC allowing for a generalized definition of the Zeno effect. Due to the high degree of control on every parameter, our system is a promising candidate for the engineering of fully governable open quantum systems.

id: 1212.4839
title: Realizing Fractional Chern Insulators with Dipolar Spins
authors: Norman Y. Yao, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Chris R. Laumann, Andreas M. L?uchli, Jun Ye, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 185302 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4839
abstract: Strongly correlated quantum systems can exhibit exotic behavior controlled by topology. We predict that the \nu=1/2 fractional Chern insulator arises naturally in a two-dimensional array of driven, dipolar-interacting spins. As a specific implementation, we analyze how to prepare and detect synthetic gauge potentials for the rotational excitations of ultra-cold polar molecules trapped in a deep optical lattice. While the orbital motion of the molecules is pinned, at finite densities, the rotational excitations form a fractional Chern insulator. We present a detailed experimental blueprint for KRb, and demonstrate that the energetics are consistent with near-term capabilities. Prospects for the realization of such phases in solid-state dipolar systems are discussed as are their possible applications.

id: 1212.4863
title: Boundary Degeneracy of Topological Order
authors: Juven Wang, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures. v3: the expanded version, add new tables for clarification, with some new corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 125124 (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4863
abstract: We introduce the concept of boundary degeneracy of topologically ordered states on a compact orientable spatial manifold with boundaries, and emphasize that the boundary degeneracy provides richer information than the bulk degeneracy. Beyond the bulk-edge correspondence, we find the ground state degeneracy of the fully gapped edge modes depends on boundary gapping conditions. By associating different types of boundary gapping conditions as different ways of particle or quasiparticle condensations on the boundary, we develop an analytic theory of gapped boundaries. By Chern-Simons theory, this allows us to derive the ground state degeneracy formula in terms of boundary gapping conditions, which encodes more than the fusion algebra of fractionalized quasiparticles. We apply our theory to Kitaev's toric code and Levin-Wen string-net models. We predict that the $Z_2$ toric code and $Z_2$ double-semion model (more generally, the $Z_k$ gauge theory and the $U(1)_k \times U(1)_{-k}$ non-chiral fractional quantum Hall state at even integer $k$) can be numerically and experimentally distinguished, by measuring their boundary degeneracy on an annulus or a cylinder.

id: 1212.4882
title: Flows on Generalised Gelfand Spectra of Nonabelian Unital C*-Algebras and Time Evolution of Quantum Systems
authors: Andreas Doering
comments: 28 pages, no figures; v2: improved presentation, minor corrections, all main results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4882
abstract: In arXiv:1212.2613, we associated a presheaf \Sigma^A with each unital C*-algebra A. The spectral presheaf \Sigma^A generalises the Gelfand spectrum of an abelian unital C*-algebra. In the present article, we consider one-parameter groups of automorphisms of the spectral presheaf, in particular those arising from one-parameter groups of inner automorphisms of the algebra. We interpret the spectral presheaf as a (generalised) state space for a quantum system and show how one can use flows on the spectral presheaf and on associated structures to describe the time evolution of non-relativistic quantum systems, both in the Schr\"odinger picture and the Heisenberg picture.

id: 1212.4981
title: Clock-controlled emission of single-electron wavepackets in a solid-state circuit
authors: J.D. Fletcher, M. Kataoka, H. Howe, M. Pepper, P. See, S.P. Giblin, J.P. Griffiths, G.A.C. Jones, I. Farrer, D.A. Ritchie, T.J.B.M. Janssen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 216807 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.4981
abstract: We demonstrate the transmission of single electron wavepackets from a clock-controlled source through an empty high-energy edge channel. The quantum dot source is loaded with single electrons which are then emitted with high kinetic energy ($\sim$150 meV). We find at high magnetic field that these electron can be transported over several microns without inelastic electron-electron or electron-phonon scattering. Using a time-resolved spectroscopic technique, we measure the electron energy and wavepacket size at picosecond time scales. We also show how our technique can be used to switch individual electrons into different paths.

id: 1212.5041
title: Normalized Ghost Imaging
authors: Baoqing Sun, Stephen S. Welsh, Matthew P. Edgar, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Miles J. Padgett
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express 2012
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5041
abstract: We present an experimental comparison between different iterative ghost imaging algorithms. Our experimental setup utilizes a spatial light modulator for generating known random light fields to illuminate a partially-transmissive object. We adapt the weighting factor used in the traditional ghost imaging algorithm to account for changes in the efficiency of the generated light field. We show that our normalized weighting algorithm can match the performance of differential ghost imaging.

id: 1212.5044
title: Thermodynamical phases of a regular SAdS black hole
authors: Anais Smailagic, Euro Spallucci
comments: 12 pages; 6 Figures; accepted for publication in Int. J. Mod. Phys. D
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5044
abstract: This paper studies the thermodynamical stability of regular BHs in AdS5 background. We investigate off-shell free energy of the system as a function of temperature for different values of a "coupling constant" L=4 theta/l^2, where the cosmological constant is Lambda = -3/l^2 and \sqrt{theta} is a "minimal length". The parameter L admits a critical value, L_{inf}=0.2, corresponding to the appearance of an inflexion point in the Hawking temperature. In the weak-coupling regime L < L_{inf}, there are first order phase transitions at different temperatures. Unlike the Hawking-Page case, at temperature 0\le T \le T_{min} the ground state is populated by "cold" near-extremal BHs instead of a pure radiation. On the other hand, for L \g L_{inf} only large, thermodynamically stable, BHs exist.

id: 1212.5093
title: Direct imaging of topological edge states in cold-atom systems
authors: N. Goldman, J. Dalibard, A. Dauphin, F. Gerbier, M. Lewenstein, P. Zoller, I. B. Spielman
comments: 13 pages, 16 figures, including appendices. Revised and extended version, to appear in PNAS
journal: PNAS 110(17) 6736-6741 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5093
abstract: Detecting topological order in cold-atom experiments is an ongoing challenge, the resolution of which offers novel perspectives on topological matter. In material systems, unambiguous signatures of topological order exist for topological insulators and quantum Hall devices. In quantum Hall systems, the quantized conductivity and the associated robust propagating edge modes - guaranteed by the existence of non-trivial topological invariants - have been observed through transport and spectroscopy measurements. Here, we show that optical-lattice-based experiments can be tailored to directly visualize the propagation of topological edge modes. Our method is rooted in the unique capability for initially shaping the atomic gas, and imaging its time-evolution after suddenly removing the shaping potentials. Our scheme, applicable to an assortment of atomic topological phases, provides a method for imaging the dynamics of topological edge modes, directly revealing their angular velocity and spin structure.

id: 1212.5146
title: Gravitationally induced inhibitions of dispersion according to a modified Schr?dinger-Newton equation for a homogeneous-sphere potential
authors: Domenico Giulini, Andr¨¦ Gro?ardt
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. This second version was supplemented by an analysis how the separation of the N-particle SN equation leads to the considered centre-of-mass equation, as well as a considereation of a hollow-sphere potential in addition to the solid sphere considered previously
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 30 (2013) 155018
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5146
abstract: We modify the time dependent Schr\"odinger-Newton equation by using a potential for a solid sphere suggested by J\"a\"askel\"ainen (J\"a\"askel\"ainen 2012 Phys. Rev. A 86 052105) as well as a hollow-sphere potential. Compared to our recent paper (Giulini and Gro{\ss}ardt 2011 Class. Quantum Grav. 28 195026) where a single point-particle, i.e. a Coulomb potential, was considered this has been suggested to be a more realistic model for a molecule. Surprisingly, compared to our previous results, inhibitions of dispersion of a Gaussian wave packet occur at even smaller masses for the solid-sphere potential, given that the width of the wave packet is not exceeded by the radius of the sphere.

id: 1212.5172
title: Suitability of nanodiamond NV centers for spontaneous emission control experiments
authors: Abbas Mohtashami, A. Femius Koenderink
comments: 27 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5172
abstract: NV centers in diamond are generally recognized as highly promising as indefinitely stable highly efficient single-photon sources. We report an experimental quantification of the brightness, radiative decay rate, nonradiative decay rate and quantum efficiency of single NV centers in diamond nanocrystals. Our experiments show that the commonly observed large spread in fluorescence decay rates of NV centers in nanodiamond is inconsistent with the common explanation of large nanophotonic mode-density variations in the ultra-small high-index crystals at near-unity quantum efficiency. We report that NV centers in 25 nm nanocrystals are essentially insensitive to local density of states (LDOS) variations that we induce at a dielectric interface by using liquids to vary the refractive index, and propose that quantum efficiencies in such nanocrystals are widely distributed between 0% and 20%. For single NV centers in larger 100 nm nanocrystals, we show that decay rate changes can be reversibly induced by nanomechanically approaching a mirror to change the LDOS. Using this scanning mirror method, for the first time we report calibrated quantum efficiencies of NV centers, and show that different but nominally identical nanocrystals have widely distributed quantum efficiencies between 10% and 90%. Our measurements imply that nanocrystals that are to be assembled into hybrid photonic structures for cavity QED should first be individually screened to assess fluorescence properties in detail.

id: 1212.5189
title: Transmission degradation and preservation for tapered optical fibers in rubidium vapor
authors: M.M. Lai, J.D. Franson, T.B. Pittman
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5189
abstract: The use of sub-wavelength diameter tapered optical fibers (TOF's) in warm rubidium vapor has recently been identified as a promising system for realizing ultra-low-power nonlinear optical effects. However, at the relatively high atomic densities needed for many of these experiments, rubidium atoms accumulating on the TOF surface can cause a significant loss of overall transmission through the fiber. Here we report direct measurements of the time-scale associated with this transmission degradation for various rubidium density conditions. Transmission is affected almost immediately after the introduction of rubidium vapor into the system, and declines rapidly as the density is increased. More significantly, we show how a heating element designed to raise the TOF temperature can be used to reduce this transmission loss and dramatically extend the effective TOF transmission lifetime.

id: 1212.5269
title: Entanglement at a Two-Dimensional Quantum Critical Point: a Numerical Linked Cluster Expansion Study
authors: Ann B. Kallin, Katharine Hyatt, Rajiv R. P. Singh, Roger G. Melko
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 135702 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5269
abstract: We develop a method to calculate the bipartite entanglement entropy of quantum models, in the thermodynamic limit, using a Numerical Linked Cluster Expansion (NLCE) involving only rectangular clusters. It is based on exact diagonalization of all n x m rectangular clusters at the interface between entangled subsystems A and B. We use it to obtain the Renyi entanglement entropy of the two-dimensional transverse field Ising model, for arbitrary real Renyi index alpha. Extrapolating these results as a function of the order of the calculation, we obtain universal pieces of the entanglement entropy associated with lines and corners at the quantum critical point. They show NLCE to be one of the few methods capable of accurately calculating universal properties of arbitrary Renyi entropies at higher dimensional critical points.

id: 1212.5295
title: Ground-State Cooling of a Single Atom at the Center of an Optical Cavity
authors: Andreas Reiserer, Christian N?lleke, Stephan Ritter, Gerhard Rempe
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 223003 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5295
abstract: A single neutral atom is trapped in a three-dimensional optical lattice at the center of a high-finesse optical resonator. Using fluorescence imaging and a shiftable standing-wave trap, the atom is deterministically loaded into the maximum of the intracavity field where the atom-cavity coupling is strong. After 5ms of Raman sideband cooling, the three-dimensional motional ground state is populated with a probability of (89+/-2)%. Our system is the first to simultaneously achieve quantum control over all degrees of freedom of a single atom: its position and momentum, its internal state, and its coupling to light.

id: 1212.5326
title: Overlaying optical lattices for simulation of complex frustrated antiferromagnets
authors: Zhi-Xin Chen, Han Ma, Mo-Han Chen, Xiang-Fa Zhou, Lixin He, Guang-Can Guo, Xingxiang Zhou, Yan Chen, Zheng-Wei Zhou
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013632 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5326
abstract: We present design techniques of special optical lattices that allow quantum simulation of spin frustration in two-dimensional systems. By carefully overlaying optical lattices with different periods and orientations, we are able to adjust the ratio between the nearest-neighbor and next-nearest-neighbor interaction strengths in a square spin lattice and realize frustration effects. We show that only laser beams of a single frequency is required, and the parameter space reachable in our design is broad enough to study the important phases in the $J_1$-$J_2$ frustrated Heisenberg model and checkerboard antiferromagnet model. By using the polarization spectroscopy for detection, distinct quantum phases and quantum phase transition points can be characterized straightforwardly. Our design thus offers a suitable setup for simulation of frustrated spin systems.

id: 1212.5379
title: Closed system approach to open systems: Tunneling decay of interacting cold bosons in an optical lattice
authors: K. Rapedius
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 125301
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5379
abstract: A Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian, modeling cold bosons in an optical lattice, is used to simulate the dynamics of interacting open quantum systems as subsystems a larger closed system, avoiding complications like the introduction of baths, complex absorbing potentials or absorbing boundaries. The numerically exact unitary dynamics is compared with effective descriptions of the subsystems based on non-Hermitian Hamiltonians or Lindblad master equations. The validity of popular models with constant decay rates is explicitly analyzed for decaying single and double wells. In addition we present a discrete lattice version of the Siegert approximation method for calculating decay rates.

id: 1212.5444
title: Steady-state phases and tunneling-induced instabilities in the driven-dissipative Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Alexandre Le Boit¨¦, Giuliano Orso, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 110 (2013) 233601
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5444
abstract: We determine the steady-state phases of a driven-dissipative Bose-Hubbard model, describing, e.g., an array of coherently pumped nonlinear cavities with a finite photon lifetime. Within a mean-field master equation approach using exact quantum solutions for the one-site problem, we show that the system exhibits a tunneling-induced transition between monostable and bistable phases. We characterize the corresponding quantum correlations, highlighting the essential differences with respect to the equilibrium case. We also find collective excitations with a flat energy-momentum dispersion over the entire Brillouin zone that trigger modulational instabilities at specific wavevectors.

id: 1212.5459
title: Millisecond charge-parity fluctuations and induced decoherence in a superconducting qubit
authors: D. Rist¨¨, C. C. Bultink, M. J. Tiggelman, R. N. Schouten, K. W. Lehnert, L. DiCarlo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, and Supplementary Information (5 figures)
journal: Nat. Commun. 4:1913 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5459
abstract: Quasiparticle excitations adversely affect the performance of superconducting devices in a wide range of applications. They limit the sensitivity of photon detectors in astronomy, the accuracy of current sources in metrology, the cooling power of micro-refrigerators, and could break the topological protection of Majorana qubits. In superconducting circuits for quantum information processing, tunneling of quasiparticles across Josephson junctions constitutes a decoherence mechanism. As relaxation and pure dephasing times of transmon-type charge qubits now reach 100 microseconds, understanding whether quasiparticle tunneling may already bottleneck coherence is of high interest. We integrate recent advances in qubit readout and feedback control in circuit quantum electrodynamics to perform the first real-time observation of quasiparticle tunneling in a transmon qubit. We demonstrate quasiparticle-tunneling contributions to qubit relaxation and pure dephasing in the millisecond range. Thus, quasiparticle tunneling will not limit coherence for at least one order of magnitude beyond the state of the art.

id: 1212.5465
title: Linear and angular momentum spaces for Majorana spinors
authors: L. Pedro
comments: 26 pages, corrected the Proofs of Propositions 2.10, 3.5 and 6.13
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5465
abstract: In a Majorana basis, the Dirac equation for a free spin one-half particle is a 4x4 real matrix differential equation. The solution can be a Majorana spinor, a 4x1 real column matrix, whose entries are real functions of the space-time. Can a Majorana spinor, whose entries are real functions of the space-time, describe the energy, linear and angular momentums of a free spin one-half particle? We show that it can. We show that the Majorana spinor is an irreducible representation of the double cover of the proper orthochronous Lorentz group and of the full Lorentz group. The Fourier-Majorana and Hankel-Majorana transforms are defined and related to the linear and angular momentums of a free spin one-half particle.

id: 1212.5585
title: The presheaf of Quantum Realities and constructions of the space-time from the Space of Ultimation
authors: Innocenti Maresin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5585
abstract: The paper presents several quantum models constructed with the formalism of algebraic geometry. The Universe is presented as a presheaf on the "space of ultimation" (i.e. the branching future) with values in certain category which enhances the category opposite to C*-algebras. Given models show the possibility to derive ordinary space-times (of both Special and General Relativity) from ultrametric spaces.

id: 1212.5630
title: Infinite Shannon entropy
authors: Valentina Baccetti, Matt Visser
comments: 13 pages; V2: 4 references added
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P04010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5630
abstract: Even if a probability distribution is properly normalizable, its associated Shannon (or von Neumann) entropy can easily be infinite. We carefully analyze conditions under which this phenomenon can occur. Roughly speaking, this happens when arbitrarily small amounts of probability are dispersed into an infinite number of states; we shall quantify this observation and make it precise. We develop several particularly simple, elementary, and useful bounds, and also provide some asymptotic estimates, leading to necessary and sufficient conditions for the occurrence of infinite Shannon entropy. We go to some effort to keep technical computations as simple and conceptually clear as possible. In particular, we shall see that large entropies cannot be localized in state space; large entropies can only be supported on an exponentially large number of states. We are for the time being interested in single-channel Shannon entropy in the information theoretic sense, not entropy in a stochastic field theory or QFT defined over some configuration space, on the grounds that this simple problem is a necessary precursor to understanding infinite entropy in a field theoretic context.

id: 1212.5659
title: Longitudinal electric conductivity and dielectric permeability in quantum plasma with variable frequency of collisions in Mermin' approach
authors: A. V. Latyshev, A. A. Yushkanov
comments: 29 pages, 0 figures, some transformations are added. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1212.6260
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5659
abstract: Formulas for longitudinal electric conductivity and dielectric permeability in the quantum non-degenerate collisional plasma with the frequency of collisions depending on momentum in Mermin' approach are received. The kinetic equation in momentum space in relaxation approximation is used. It is shown that when Planck's constant tends to zero, the deduced formula passes to the corresponding formula for classical plasma. It is shown also that when frequency of collisions of particles of plasma tends to zero (plasma passes to collisionless one), the deduced formula passes to the known Lindhard' formula received for collisionless plasmas. It is shown, that when frequency of collisions is a constant, the deduced formula for dielectric permeability passes in known Mermin' formula.

id: 1212.5678
title: Quantum reflection of antihydrogen from nanoporous media
authors: G. Dufour, R. Gu¨¦rout, A. Lambrecht, V.V. Nesvizhevsky, S. Reynaud, A.Yu. Voronin
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87 (2013) 022506
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5678
abstract: We study quantum reflection of antihydrogen atoms from nanoporous media due to the Casimir-Polder (CP) potential. Using a simple effective medium model, we show a dramatic increase of the probability of quantum reflection of antihydrogen atoms if the porosity of the medium increases. We discuss the limiting case of reflections at small energies, which have interesting applications for trapping and guiding antihydrogen using material walls.

id: 1212.5746
title: Sidebands in Optically Detected Magnetic Resonance Signals of Nitrogen Vacancy Centers in Diamond
authors: Maria Simanovskaia, Kasper Jensen, Andrey Jarmola, Kurt Aulenbacher, Neil Manson, Dmitry Budker
comments: 12 pages, new data and discussions in updated version
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5746
abstract: We study features in the optically detected magnetic resonance (ODMR) signals associated with negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers coupled to other paramagnetic impurities in diamond. Our results are important for understanding ODMR line shapes and for optimization of devices based on NV centers. We determine the origins of several side features to the unperturbed NV magnetic resonance by studying their magnetic field and microwave power dependences. Side resonances separated by around 130 MHz are due to hyperfine coupling between NV centers and nearest-neighbor C-13 nuclear spins. Side resonances separated by approximately {40, 260, 300} MHz are found to originate from simultaneous spin flipping of NV centers and single substitutional nitrogen atoms. All results are in agreement with the presented theoretical calculations.

id: 1212.5808
title: Calorimetric measurement of quantum work
authors: Jukka P. Pekola, Paolo Solinas, Alexander Shnirman, Dmitri V. Averin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5808
abstract: To define the work performed on a driven quantum system in a physically sound way has turned out to be a truly non-trivial task, except in some special cases of limited applicability. This topic has been in a focus of intense research recently in the attempts to generalize the classical fluctuation relations into the quantum regime. Here we propose and demonstrate that a calorimetric measurement gives both a theoretical and experimental tool to test the Jarzynski equality (JE) and other fluctuation relations in a quantum system, and to analyze the distribution of dissipation in them, based on the very principle of conservation of energy. We focus on an experimentally feasible two-level system, a superconducting Cooper pair box subject to Landau-Zener interband transitions. Because of the small heat capacity and weak relaxation to the phonon bath, the calorimetric measurement on the electron gas (resistor) turns out to be a very feasible experimental method.

id: 1212.5833
title: A superheated Bose-condensed gas
authors: Alexander L. Gaunt, Richard J. Fletcher, Robert P. Smith, Zoran Hadzibabic
comments: 4.2 pages, 4 figures + 4 pages, 3 figures of supplementary information
journal: Nature Phys. 9, 271-274 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5833
abstract: Our understanding of various states of matter usually relies on the assumption of thermodynamic equilibrium. However, the transitions between different phases of matter can be strongly affected by non-equilibrium phenomena. Here we demonstrate and explain an example of non-equilibrium stalling of a continuous, second-order phase transition. We create a superheated atomic Bose gas, in which a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) persists above the equilibrium critical temperature, $T_c$, if its coupling to the surrounding thermal bath is reduced by tuning interatomic interactions. For vanishing interactions the BEC persists in the superheated regime for a minute. However, if strong interactions are suddenly turned on, it rapidly "boils" away. Our observations can be understood within a two-fluid picture, treating the condensed and thermal components of the gas as separate equilibrium systems with a tuneable inter-component coupling. We experimentally reconstruct a non-equilibrium phase diagram of our gas, and theoretically reproduce its main features.

id: 1212.5851
title: Constructing positive maps from block matrices
authors: Yu Guo, Heng Fan
comments: 13 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 265303
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5851
abstract: Positive maps are useful for detecting entanglement in quantum information theory. Any entangled state can be detected by some positive map. In this paper, the relation between positive block matrices and completely positive trace-preserving maps is characterized. Consequently, a new method for constructing decomposable maps from positive block matrices is derived. In addition, a method for constructing positive but not completely positive maps from Hermitian block matrices is also obtained.

id: 1212.5915
title: Controlled dephasing of an electron interferometer with a path detector at equilibrium
authors: E. Weisz, H. K. Choi, M. Heiblum, Yuval Gefen, V. Umansky, D. Mahalu
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 250401 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5915
abstract: Controlled dephasing of electrons, via 'which path' detection, involves, in general, coupling a coherent system to a current driven noise source. However, here, we present a case in which a nearly isolated electron puddle at thermal equilibrium strongly affects the coherence of a nearby electronic interferometer. Moreover, for certain average electron occupations of the puddle, the interferometer exhibits complete dephasing. This robust phenomenon stems from the Friedel Sum Rule, which relates a system's occupation with its scattering phases. The interferometer opens a peeping window into physics of the isolated electron puddle, which cannot be accessed otherwise.

id: 1212.5953
title: Giant Spin Hall Effect in Single Photon Plasmonics
authors: G. S. Agarwal, S.-A. Biehs
comments: 
journal: Opt. Lett. 38, 4421 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.5953
abstract: We show the existence of a very large spin Hall effect of light (SHEL) in single photon plasmonics based on spontaneous emission and the dipole-dipole interaction initiated energy transfer (FRET) on plasmonic platforms. The spin orbit coupling inherent in Maxwell equations is seen in the conversion of sigma + photon to sigma - photon. The FRET is mediated by the resonant surface plasmons and hence we find very large SHEL. We present explicit results for SHEL on both graphene and metal films. We also study how the splitting of the surface plasmon on a metal film affects the SHEL. In contrast to most other works which deal with SHEL as correction to the paraxial results, we consider SHEL in the near field of dipoles which are far from paraxial.

id: 1212.6033
title: Bernoulli's formula and Poisson's equations for a confined quantum gas: Effects due to a moving piston
authors: Katsuhiro Nakamura, Zarifboy A. Sobirov, Davron U. Matrasulov, Sanat K.Avazbaev
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 061128 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6033
abstract: We study a nonequilibrium equation of states of an ideal quantum gas confined in the cavity under a moving piston with a small but finite velocity in the case that the cavity wall suddenly begins to move at time origin. Confining to the thermally-isolated process, quantum non-adiabatic (QNA) contribution to Poisson's adiabatic equations and to Bernoulli's formula which bridges the pressure and internal energy is elucidated. We carry out a statistical mean of the non-adiabatic (time-reversal-symmetric) force operator found in our preceding paper (K. Nakamura et al, Phys. Rev. E Vol.83, 041133, (2011)) in both the low-temperature quantum-mechanical and high temperature quasi-classical regimes. The QNA contribution, which is proportional to square of the piston's velocity and to inverse of the longitudinal size of the cavity, has a coefficient dependent on temperature, gas density and dimensionality of the cavity. The investigation is done for a unidirectionally-expanding 3-d rectangular parallelepiped cavity as well as its 1-d version. Its relevance in a realistic nano-scale heat engine is discussed.

id: 1212.6072
title: Wave packets in Honeycomb Structures and Two-Dimensional Dirac Equations
authors: Charles L. Fefferman, Michael I. Weinstein
comments: 34 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6072
abstract: In a recent article [10], the authors proved that the non-relativistic Schr\"odinger operator with a generic honeycomb lattice potential has conical (Dirac) points in its dispersion surfaces. These conical points occur for quasi-momenta, which are located at the vertices of the Brillouin zone, a regular hexagon. In this paper, we study the time-evolution of wave-packets, which are spectrally concentrated near such conical points. We prove that the large, but finite, time dynamics is governed by the two-dimensional Dirac equations.

id: 1212.6081
title: 2kF-Friedel to 4kF-Wigner oscillations in one-dimensional Fermi gases under confinement
authors: Gao Xianlong
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023616 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6081
abstract: Density oscillations of confined one-dimensional Fermi gases of contact repulsive interactions in a continuous space are discussed within Bethe-ansatz-based spin-density-functional theory. The results are compared against the exact analytical and the exact diagonalization method. For an unpolarized system, the number of peaks in the density profiles is doubled, signaling the crossover of the 2k_F-Friedel to 4k_F-Wigner oscillations (with kF being the Fermi wave vector). For both unpolarized and polarized systems, a threshold of the short-range interaction strength can be found where Nf-peak Wigner oscillations of a 4k_F wave vector appear in the density profile (N_f is the total particle number).

id: 1212.6082
title: The demixing of the two-component fermions in optical lattices under a spin-dependent external potential
authors: A-Hai Chen, Gao Xianlong
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 065602 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6082
abstract: The demixing of two-component fermions in optical lattices under a spin-dependent external potential is investigated using the density-matrix renormalization group method. The influence of on-site interactions (u) and the ratio of the spin-dependent external potentials ($\gamma$) on the demixing is discussed. The $\gamma-u$ state diagram is numerically mapped out, from which we distinguish the phase-mixed region from the phase-separated one. A minimum point appears in the phase boundary. On the right part of the point an insulating core is formed in the spin-up densities during the demixing, while on the left one only metallic phase exists.

id: 1212.6125
title: Role of different type of sub-systems in doubly driven Lambda-system in 87Rb
authors: Kanhaiya Pandey
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6125
abstract: The well known Lambda-system using two ground state hyperfine levels, F=1 and F=2 of 5S1/2 and one hyperfine level, F=2 of excited state of 5P3/2 of 87Rb has been recently studied using two counter- propagating control lasers [1]. The experiment shows conversion of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) into electromagnetically induced absorption (EIA) because the doubly driven Lambda-system forms various sub-systems. We here present detailed theoretical study of the different possible sub-systems created by this configuration. We also explore the possibility of tuning the strength of individual sub-systems by changing the polarization of the control lasers.

id: 1212.6161
title: Circumnavigating an ocean of incompressible light
authors: Iacopo Carusotto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6161
abstract: This is a popular science article to appear on the "Il Nuovo Saggiatore" magazine of the Italian Physical Society. It aims at introducing a broad audience of physicists to the most recent trends in many-body physics of degenerate quantum gases with a special attention to quantum fluids of light and the quest towards quantum Hall liquids of light.

id: 1212.6189
title: Quantum oscillations in ultracold Fermi gases : realizations with rotating gases or artificial gauge fields
authors: Charles Grenier, Corinna Kollath, Antoine Georges
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 033603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6189
abstract: We consider the angular momentum of a harmonically trapped, noninteracting Fermi gas subject to either rotation or to an artificial gauge field. The angular momentum of the gas is shown to display oscillations as a function of the particle number or chemical potential. This phenomenon is analogous to the de Haas - van Alphen oscillations of the magnetization in the solid-state context. However, key differences exist between the solid-state and ultracold atomic gases that we point out and analyze. We explore the dependence of the visibility of these oscillations on the physical parameters and propose two experimental protocols for their observation. Due to the very strong dependence of the amplitude of the oscillations on temperature, we propose their use as a sensitive thermometer for Fermi gases in the low temperature regime.

id: 1212.6231
title: Effects of Partial Hydrogenation on the Structure and Electronic Properties of BNNTs
authors: Lena Kalikhman-Razvozov, Roza Yusupov, Oded Hod
comments: 17 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. Chem. C 117, 22224-22231 (2013)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6231
abstract: The effects of partial hydrogenation on the structure and electronic properties of boron nitride nanotubes are investigated via density functional theory calculations. We find that the structure of the nanotube may considerably deform depending on the exact locations of the hydrogen atoms adsorption. Furthermore, depending on the tube identity, diameter, and adsorbate density it is found that the bandgap can be gradually reduced as a function of the relative position of the hydrogen atoms and in some cases change its character from indirect to direct and vice versa upon hydrogen adsorption. Our findings indicate that partial hydrogenation may prove as a valuable and experimentally achievable route for controlling the electronic properties of boron nitride nanotubes.

id: 1212.6249
title: Torque Anomaly in Quantum Field Theory
authors: S. A. Fulling, F. D. Mera, C. S. Trendafilova
comments: 3 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87 (2013) 047702
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6249
abstract: The expectation values of energy density and pressure of a quantum field inside a wedge-shaped region appear to violate the expected relationship between torque and total energy as a function of angle. In particular, this is true of the well-known Deutsch--Candelas stress tensor for the electromagnetic field, whose definition requires no regularization except possibly at the vertex. Unlike a similar anomaly in the pressure exerted by a reflecting boundary against a perpendicular wall, this problem cannot be dismissed as an artifact of an ad hoc regularization.

id: 1212.6260
title: Longitudinal electric conductivity and dielectric permeability in quantum plasma with constant collision frequency in Mermin' approach
authors: A. V. Latyshev, A. A. Yushkanov
comments: 27 pages, 14 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1212.5659
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6260
abstract: Detailed deducing of formulas for longitudinal electric conductivity and dielectric permeability in the quantum degenerate collisional plasma with constant collision frequency in Mermin' approach is given. The kinetic Schr\"{o}dinger-Boltzmann equation in momentum space in relaxation approximation is used. It is shown that when collision frequency of plasma particles tends to zero (plasma passes to collisionless one), the deduced formula for dielectric function passes to the known Lindhard' formula for collisionless plasmas. It is shown that the deduced formula for dielectric permeability coincides with known Mermin's formula. Graphic research of the real and imaginary parts of dielectric function is made. Graphic comparison of the real and imaginary parts of dielectric function for quantum and classical plasma also is made. The module of derivative dielectric function also has been investigated graphically.

id: 1212.6291
title: A quantum many-body spin system in an optical lattice clock
authors: M. J. Martin, M. Bishof, M. D. Swallows, X. Zhang, C. Benko, J. von-Stecher, A. V. Gorshkov, A. M. Rey, Jun Ye
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures
journal: Science 341, 632 - 636 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6291
abstract: Strongly interacting quantum many-body systems are fundamentally compelling and ubiquitous in science. However, their complexity generally prevents exact solutions of their dynamics. Precisely engineered ultracold atomic gases are emerging as a powerful tool to unravel these challenging physical problems. Here we present a new laboratory for the study of many-body effects: strongly interacting two-level systems formed by the clock states in ${}^{87}$Sr, which are used to realize a neutral atom optical clock that performs at the highest level of optical-atomic coherence and with precision near the limit set by quantum fluctuations. Our measurements of the collective spin evolution reveal signatures of many-body dynamics, including beyond-mean-field effects. We derive a many-body Hamiltonian that describes the experimental observation of severely distorted lineshapes, atomic spin coherence decay, density-dependent frequency shifts, and correlated quantum spin noise. These investigations open the door to exploring quantum many-body effects and entanglement in quantum systems with optical energy splittings, using highly coherent and precisely controlled optical lattice clocks.

id: 1212.6315
title: Tunable source of correlated atom beams
authors: Marie Bonneau, Josselin Ruaudel, Rapha?l Lopes, Jean-Christophe Jaskula, Alain Aspect, Denis Boiron, Christoph I Westbrook
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87, 6 (2013) 061603(R)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6315
abstract: We use a one-dimensional optical lattice to modify the dispersion relation of atomic matter waves. Four-wave mixing in this situation produces atom pairs in two well defined beams. We show that these beams present a narrow momentum correlation, that their momenta are precisely tunable, and that this pair source can be operated both in the regime of low mode occupancy and of high mode occupancy.

id: 1212.6373
title: Quantum motion on a torus as a submanifold problem in a generalized Dirac's theory of second-class constraints
authors: D. M. Xun, Q. H. Liu, X. M. Zhu
comments: 10 pages, no figure, typos added, introduction rewritten
journal: Ann. Phys. 338(2013)123
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6373
abstract: A generalization of the Dirac's canonical quantization theory for a system with second-class constraints is proposed as the fundamental commutation relations that are constituted by all commutators between positions, momenta and Hamiltonian so they are simultaneously quantized in a self-consistent manner, rather than by those between merely positions and momenta so the theory either contains redundant freedoms or conflicts with experiments. The application of the generalized theory to quantum motion on a torus leads to two remarkable results: i) The theory formulated purely on the torus, i.e., based on the so-called the purely intrinsic geometry, conflicts with itself. So it provides an explanation why an intrinsic examination of quantum motion on torus within the Schrodinger formalism is improper. ii) An extrinsic examination of the torus as a submanifold in three dimensional flat space turns out to be self-consistent and the resultant momenta and Hamiltonian are satisfactory all around.

id: 1212.6376
title: The VOI-Based Valleytronics
authors: G. Y. Wu, N.-Y. Lue, Y.-C. Chen
comments: 26 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6376
abstract: We discuss the valley-orbit interaction (VOI) and the concept of VOI based valleytronics. Potential of such valleytronics is illustrated, with graphene as an example material, in several frontier applications comprising FETs, quantum computing, and quantum communications. Two important devices are discussed as examples, namely, 1) valley pair qubits in coupled graphene quantum dots, to build quantum networks consisting of graphene and photons, and 2) valleybased FETs consisting of graphene quantum wires (channels) and armchair graphene nanoribbons (sources and drains), to build graphene-based, low-power FET circuits. This demonstration makes the VOI-based valleytronics an attractive R & D direction in the area of electronics.

id: 1212.6417
title: Interaction of Diatomic Molecules with Photon Angular Momentum
authors: Thomas B. Bahder
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6417
abstract: The interaction of a diatomic molecule with photons carrying well-defined angular momentum and parity is investigated to determine whether photon absorption can induce molecular rotational transitions between states having angular momentum $\Delta J >1$. A transformation from laboratory coordinates to coordinates with origin at the center-of-mass of the nuclei is used to obtain the interaction between the photons and the molecule's center-of-mass, electronic, and rotational degrees of freedom. For molecules making transitions between rotational levels, there is a small parameter, $ k a \ll 1 $, where $k$ is the photon wave vector and $a$ is the size of the molecule, which enters into the $Ej$ and $Mj$ photon absorption probabilities. For electric photons having arbitrary angular momentum $j \hbar$, the probability of absorbing an $E(j+1)$ photon divided by the probability of absorbing an $Ej$ photon, scales as $ (k a)^2 /(2 j+1)^2$. The probability of absorbing an $Mj$ photon, divided by the probability of absorbing and $Ej$ photon scales according to the same factor.

id: 1212.6474
title: Propagation of subcycle pulses in a two-level medium: Area-theorem breakdown and pulse shape
authors: Denis Novitsky
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063835 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6474
abstract: We solve the problem of ultrashort pulse propagation in a two-level medium beyond the rotating-wave (RWA) and slowly-varying-envelope approximations. The method of solution is based on the Maxwell--Bloch equations represented in the form that allows one to switch between RWA and general (non-RWA) cases in the framework of a single numerical algorithm. Using this method, the effect of a subcycle pulse (containing less than a single period of field oscillations) on the two-level medium was analyzed. It is shown that for such short pulses, the clear breakdown of the area theorem occurs for the pulses of large enough area. Moreover, deviations from the area theorem appear to be strongly dependent on the pulse shape that cannot be observed for longer few-cycle pulses.

id: 1212.6482
title: Energy-dependent perturbation theory: Possibility for improved tests of quantum-electrodynamics
authors: Ingvar Lindgren, Sten Salomonson, Johan Holmberg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6482
abstract: Measurements of energy separations in highly charged ions can in many cases nowadays be performed with very high accuracy, an accuracy that sometimes cannot be matched by the corresponding theoretical calcula- tions. Furthermore, it has recently been demonstrated that there is a systematic deviation between experimental and theoretical results for the K- alpha lines of medium-heavy heliumlike ions. We have during a number of years been developing a general procedure for energy-dependent perturbative calcu- lations, which opens up a unique possibility of incorporating the energy- dependent QED perturbations into the all-order many-body perturbation expansion in a rigorous way. Such an expansion will yield several important effects, never before accounted for in this type of analysis, which is expected to increase the theoretical accuracy considerably. Calculation of some of these effects have been performed at our laboratory in Gothenburg, and numerical results are given. Further work along this line is now in progress. To what extent the improved procedure might explain the discrepancy found by Chantler et al. remains to be seen.

id: 1212.6568
title: Coherent edge mixing and interferometry in quantum Hall bilayers
authors: Stefano Roddaro, Luca Chirolli, Fabio Taddei, Marco Polini, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 075321 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6568
abstract: We discuss the implementation of a beam splitter for electron waves in a quantum Hall bilayer. Our architecture exploits inter-layer tunneling to mix edge states belonging to di?erent layers. We discuss the basic working principle of the proposed coherent edge mixer, possible interferometric implementations based on existing semiconductor-heterojunction technologies, and advantages with respect to canonical quantum Hall interferometers based on quantum point contacts.

id: 1212.6595
title: Krein-Adler transformations for shape-invariant potentials and pseudo virtual states
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 33 pages, 1 figure. Typo corrected, comments and references added. To appear in J.Phys.A
journal: J. Phys. A46 (2013) 245201
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6595
abstract: For eleven examples of one-dimensional quantum mechanics with shape-invariant potentials, the Darboux-Crum transformations in terms of multiple pseudo virtual state wavefunctions are shown to be equivalent to Krein-Adler transformations deleting multiple eigenstates with shifted parameters. These are based upon infinitely many polynomial Wronskian identities of classical orthogonal polynomials, i.e. the Hermite, Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials, which constitute the main part of the eigenfunctions of various quantum mechanical systems with shape-invariant potentials.

id: 1212.6684
title: Waves in Honeycomb Structures
authors: Charles L. Fefferman, Michael I. Weinstein
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, 39 \`emes Journ\'ees EDP - Biarretz. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1212.6072
journal: 
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6684
abstract: We review recent work of the authors on the non-relativistic Schr\"odinger equation with a honeycomb lattice potential, $V$. In particular, we summarize results on (i) the existence of Dirac points, conical singularities in dispersion surfaces of $H_V=-\Delta+V$ and (ii) the two-dimensional Dirac equations, as a large, but finite time, effective description of $e^{-iH_Vt}\psi_0$, for data $\psi_0$, which is spectrally localized at a Dirac point. We conclude with a formal derivation and discussion of the effective large time evolution for the nonlinear Schr\"odinger - Gross Pitaevskii equation for small amplitude initial conditions, $\psi_0$. The effective dynamics are governed by a nonlinear Dirac system.

id: 1212.6726
title: Exactness of the mean-field dynamics in optical cavity systems
authors: Takashi Mori
comments: 29 pages, Published in J. Stat. Mech., the title is changed
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P06005
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6726
abstract: Validity of the mean-field approach to open system dynamics in the optical cavity system is examined. It is rigorously shown that the mean-field approach is justified in the thermodynamic limit. The result is applicable to nonequilibrium situations, e.g. the thermal reservoirs may have different temperatures, and the system may be subject to a time-dependent external field. The result of this work will lead to further studies on macroscopic open quantum systems.

id: 1212.6739
title: Low temperature acoustic polaron localization
authors: Riccardo Fantoni
comments: 25 pages, 1 table, and 5 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1209.5975
journal: Physica B, 412, 112 (2013)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6739
abstract: We calculate the properties of an acoustic polaron in three dimensions in thermal equilibrium at a given low temperature using the path integral Monte Carlo method. The specialized numerical method used is described in full details, thus complementing our previous paper [R. Fantoni, Phys. Rev. B {\bf 86}, 144304 (2012)], and it appears to be the first time it has been used in this context. Our results are in favor of the presence of a phase transition from a localized state to an extended state for the electron as the phonon-electron coupling constant decreases. The phase transition manifests itself with a jump discontinuity in the potential energy as a function of the coupling constant and it affects the properties of the path of the electron in imaginary time: In the weak coupling regime the electron is in an extended state whereas in the strong coupling regime it is found in a self-trapped state.

id: 1212.6768
title: On the isotopic shifts in the light two-electron atoms and ions
authors: Alexei M. Frolov
comments: The version issued in March 2013 (and all later versions) contains essentially no mistakes and it is ready to be submitted to a Journal
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6768
abstract: The isotopic shifts are determined to high accuracy for a number of light two-electron ions. The field components of these isotopic shifts have been determined with the use of the exact Racah-Rosental-Breit formula.

id: 1212.6778
title: Non-Abelian chiral symmetry controls random scattering in two-band models
authors: K. Ziegler
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6778
abstract: We study the dynamics of non-interacting quantum particles with two bands in the presence of random scattering. The two bands are associated with a chiral symmetry. After breaking the latter by a potential, we still find that the quantum dynamics is controlled by a non-Abelian chiral symmetry. The possibility of spontaneous symmetry breaking is analyzed within a self-consistent approach, and the instability of a symmetric solution is discussed.

id: 1212.6881
title: Electrodynamics of a Generalized Charged Particle in Doubly Special Relativity Framework
authors: Souvik Pramanik, Subir Ghosh, Probir Pal
comments: 20 pages, figure 4,5 and 6 have changed
journal: Annals of Physics 346 113(2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6881
abstract: In the present paper, dynamics of generalized charged particles are studied in the presence of external electromagnetic interactions. This particular extension of the free relativistic particle model lives in Non-Commutative $\kappa$-Minkowski space-time, compatible with Doubly Special Relativity, that is motivated to describe Quantum Gravity effects. Furthermore we have also considered the electromagnetic field to be dynamical and have derived the modified forms of Lienard-Wiechert like potentials for these extended charged particle models. In all the above cases we exploit the new and extended form of $\kappa$-Minkowski algebra where electromagnetic effects are incorporated in the lowest order, in the Dirac framework of Hamiltonian constraint analysis.

id: 1212.6888
title: SU(1,1) Nonlinear Coherent States
authors: B. Mojaveri, A. Dehghani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6888
abstract: The idea of construction of the nonlinear coherent states based on the hypergeometric- type operators associated to the Weyl-Heisenberg group [J:P hys:A 45(2012) 095304], are generalized to the similar states for the arbitrary Lie group SU(1; 1). By using of a discrete, unitary and irreducible representation of the Lie algebra su(1; 1) wide range of generalized nonlinear coherent states(GNCS) have been introduced, which admit a resolution of the identity through positive definite measures on the complex plane. We have shown that realization of these states for different values of the deformation pa- rameters r = 1 and 2 lead to the well-known Klauder-Perelomov and Barut-Girardello coherent states associated to the Irreps of the Lie algebra su(1; 1), respectively. It is worth to mention that, like the canonical coherent states, GNCS possess the temporal stability property. Finally, studying some statistical characters implies that they have indeed nonclassical features such as squeezing, anti-bunching effect and sub-Poissonian statistics, too.

id: 1212.6924
title: Two-particle entanglement in capacitively coupled Mach-Zehnder interferometers
authors: A. A. Vyshnevyy, A. V. Lebedev, G. B. Lesovik, G. Blatter
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 165302 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6924
abstract: We propose and analyze a mesoscopic device producing on-demand entangled pairs of electrons. The system consists of two capacitively coupled Mach-Zehnder interferometers implemented in a quantum Hall structure. A pair of electron wave-packets is injected into the chiral edge states of two (of the four) incoming arms; scattering on the incoming interferometers splits the wave-packets into four components of which two interact. The resulting interaction phase associated with this component leads to the entanglement of the state; the latter is scattered at the outgoing beam splitter and analyzed in a Bell violation test measuring the presence of particles in the four outgoing leads. We study the two-particle case and determine the conditions to reach and observe full entanglement. We extend our two-particle analysis to include the underlying Fermi seas in the quantum Hall device; the change in shape of the wave-function, the generation of electron-hole pairs in the interaction regime, and a time delay between the pulses all reduce the degree of visible entanglement and the violation of the Bell inequality, effects which we analyze quantitatively. We determine the device settings optimizing the entanglement and the Bell test and find that violation is still possible in the presence of the Fermi seas, with a maximal Bell parameter reaching ${\cal B} = 2.18 > 2$ in our setup.

id: 1212.6953
title: Preparation of Non-equilibrium Nuclear Spin States in Double Quantum Dots
authors: M. Gullans, J. J. Krich, J. M. Taylor, B. I. Halperin, M. D. Lukin
comments: 11 pages main text, 8 figures, V2: minor changes, V3: minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 035309 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6953
abstract: We theoretically study the dynamic polarization of lattice nuclear spins in GaAs double quantum dots containing two electrons. In our prior work [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 226807 (2010)] we identified three regimes of long-term dynamics, including the build up of a large difference in the Overhauser fields across the dots, the saturation of the nuclear polarization process associated with formation of so-called "dark states," and the elimination of the difference field. In particular, when the dots are different sizes we found that the Overhauser field becomes larger in the smaller dot. Here we present a detailed theoretical analysis of these problems including a model of the polarization dynamics and the development of a new numerical method to efficiently simulate semiclassical central-spin problems. When nuclear spin noise is included, the results agree with our prior work indicating that large difference fields and dark states are stable configurations, while the elimination of the difference field is unstable; however, in the absence of noise we find all three steady states are achieved depending on parameters. These results are in good agreement with dynamic nuclear polarization experiments in double quantum dots.

id: 1212.6967
title: Entropic Inference: some pitfalls and paradoxes we can avoid
authors: Ariel Caticha
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure. Invited paper presented at MaxEnt 2012, The 32nd International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering, (July 15--20, 2012, Garching, Germany)
journal: 
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6967
abstract: The method of maximum entropy has been very successful but there are cases where it has either failed or led to paradoxes that have cast doubt on its general legitimacy. My more optimistic assessment is that such failures and paradoxes provide us with valuable learning opportunities to sharpen our skills in the proper way to deploy entropic methods. The central theme of this paper revolves around the different ways in which constraints are used to capture the information that is relevant to a problem. This leads us to focus on four epistemically different types of constraints. I propose that the failure to recognize the distinctions between them is a prime source of errors. I explicitly discuss two examples. One concerns the dangers involved in replacing expected values with sample averages. The other revolves around misunderstanding ignorance. I discuss the Friedman-Shimony paradox as it is manifested in the three-sided die problem and also in its original thermodynamic formulation.

id: 1212.2098
title: Sphere Renyi entropies
authors: J. S. Dowker
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures. Conjecture on extremum of effective action on conically deformed manifolds made. References added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2098
abstract: I give some scalar field theory calculations on a d-dimensional lune of arbitrary angle, evaluating, numerically, the effective action which is expressed as a simple quadrature, for conformal coupling. Using this, the entanglement and Renyi entropies are computed. Massive fields are also considered and a renormalisation to make the (one-loop) effective action vanish for infinite mass is suggested and used, not entirely successfully. However a universal coefficient is derived from the large mass expansion. From the deformation of the corresponding lune result, I conjecture that the effective action on all manifolds with a simple conical singularity has an extremum when the singularity disappears. For the round sphere, I show how to convert the quadrature form of the conformal Laplacian determinant into the more usual sum of Riemann zeta functions (and log2).

id: 1212.6673
title: Asymptotic Stochastic Transformations for Nonlinear Quantum Dynamical Systems
authors: John Gough
comments: 18 pages, no figures
journal: Reports in Math. Phys. Vol. 44, 313-338, 1999
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6673
abstract: The Ito and Stratonovich approaches are carried over to quantum stochastic systems. Here the white noise representation is shown to be the most appropriate as here the two approaches appear as Wick and Weyl orderings, respectively. This introduces for the first time the Stratonovich form for SDEs driven by Poisson processes or quantum SDEs including the conservation process. The relation of the nonlinear Heisenberg ODES to asymptotic quantum SDEs is established extending previous work on linear (Schrodinger) equations. This is shown to generalize the classical integral transformations between the various forms of stochastic calculi and to extend the Khasminskii theorem to the quantum setting.

id: 1212.6679
title: On the Stochastic Limit of Quantum Field Theory
authors: L. Accardi, J.Gough, Y.G. Lu
comments: 23 pages, no figures
journal: Reports on Mathematical Physics, Volume 36, Issues 2/3, October/December 1995, Pages 155-187
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6679
abstract: The weak coupling limit for a quantum system, with discrete energy spectrum, coupled to a Bose reservoir with the most general linear interaction is considered: under this limit we have a quantum noise processes substituting for the field. We obtain a limiting evolution unitary on the system and noise space which, when reduced to the system's degrees of freedom, provide the master and Langevin equations that are postulated on heuristic grounds by physicists. In addition we give a concrete application of our results by deriving the evolution of an atomic system interacting with the electrodynamic field without recourse to either rotating wave or dipole approximations.

id: 1212.6963
title: On precanonical quantization of gravity in spin connection variables
authors: I. V. Kanatchikov
comments: 10 pages. v2: mostly corrects few typos. v3: published version in a different latex format and titles in the references. v4: corrects typo in eq. 7
journal: AIP Conf.Proc. 1514 (2012) 73-76
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6963
abstract: The basics of precanonical quantization and its relation to the functional Schr\"odinger picture in QFT are briefly outlined. The approach is applied to quantization of Einstein's gravity in vielbein and spin connection variables and leads to a quantum dynamics described by the covariant Schr\"odinger equation for the transition amplitudes on the bundle of spin connection coefficients over the space-time, that yields a novel quantum description of space-time geometry. A toy model of precanonical quantum cosmology based on the example of flat FLRW universe is considered.

id: 1212.6458
title: Partial-indistinguishability obfuscation using braids
authors: Gorjan Alagic, Stacey Jeffery, Stephen P. Jordan
comments: 21 pages,Proceedings of TQC 2014
journal: 
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6458
abstract: An obfuscator is an algorithm that translates circuits into functionally-equivalent similarly-sized circuits that are hard to understand. Efficient obfuscators would have many applications in cryptography. Until recently, theoretical progress has mainly been limited to no-go results. Recent works have proposed the first efficient obfuscation algorithms for classical logic circuits, based on a notion of indistinguishability against polynomial-time adversaries. In this work, we propose a new notion of obfuscation, which we call partial-indistinguishability. This notion is based on computationally universal groups with efficiently computable normal forms, and appears to be incomparable with existing definitions. We describe universal gate sets for both classical and quantum computation, in which our definition of obfuscation can be met by polynomial-time algorithms. We also discuss some potential applications to testing quantum computers. We stress that the cryptographic security of these obfuscators, especially when composed with translation from other gate sets, remains an open question.

id: 1212.6666
title: More on Odd-J Pairing in Nuclei
authors: L. Zamick, A. Escuderos
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1210.3856
journal: Phys. Rev. C 87, 044302 (2013)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.6666
abstract: We point out a simplicity that arises when we use an interaction in which only an energy with odd J is non-zero. The emphasis is on J=J_{\text{max}} and in particular J=9^{+} in the g_{9/2} shell. It is noted that high overlaps can be deceptive. In many cases a single set of unitary 9-j coefficients gives either an exact or a surprisingly good approximation to the wave function of a non-degenerate state. The many degeneracies that occur in these calculations are discussed and explained. As a counterpoint, we compare the results with an interaction in which both the J=0 and J=J_{\text{max}} two-body matrix elements are equal (and attractive). Comparisons with a more realistic interaction are also made.

