id: 1301.0002
title: Limits of reductionism and the measurement problem
authors: Arkady Bolotin
comments: 26 pages. Submitted for publication in Physics Essays
journal: Physics Essays, Vol. 26: pp. 350-357, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0002
abstract: In the paper, we tackle the following questions: Could the difficulty in solving the Schrodinger equation for an arbitrarily large system be a reflection of some nature intrinsic property? And if so, could this difficulty be a resolution to the measurement problem?

id: 1301.0011
title: Measurement problem: from de Broglie to theory of classical random fields interacting with threshold detectors
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0011
abstract: The quantum measurement problem as was formulated by von Neumann in 1933 can be solved by going beyond the operational quantum formalism. In our "prequantum model" quantum systems are symbolic representations of classical random fields. The Schr\"odinger's dynamics is a special form of the linear dynamics of classical fields. Measurements are described as interactions of classical fields with detectors. Discontinuity, the "collapse of the wave function", has the trivial origin: usage of threshold type detectors. The von Neumann projection postulate can be interpreted as the formal mathematical encoding of the absence of coincidence detection in measurement on a single quantum system, e.g., photon's polarization measurement. Our model, prequantum classical statistical field theory (PCSFT), in combination with measurements by threshold detectors satisfies the quantum restriction on coincidence detections: the second order coherence is less than one (opposite to all known semiclassical and classical feld models). The basic rule of quantum probability, the Born's rule, is derived from properties of prequantum random felds interacting with threshold type detectors. Comparison with De Broglie's views to quantum mechanics as theory of physical waves with singularities is presented.

id: 1301.0073
title: Boundary Effects on Quantum Entanglement and its Dynamics in a Detector-Field System
authors: Rong Zhou, Ryan O. Behunin, Shih-Yuin Lin, B. L. Hu
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures. An expanded version of arXiv:1201.0541 where the boundary effects are expounded in greater details
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0073
abstract: In this paper we analyze an exactly solvable model consisting of an inertial Unruh-DeWitt detector which interacts linearly with a massless quantum field in Minkowski spacetime with a perfectly reflecting flat plane boundary. Firstly a set of coupled equations for the detector's and the field's Heisenberg operators are derived. Then we introduce the linear entropy as a measure of entanglement between the detector and the quantum field under mirror reflection, and solve the early-time detector-field entanglement dynamics. After coarse-graining the field, the dynamics of the detector's internal degree of freedom is described by a quantum Langevin equation, where the dissipation and noise kernels respectively correspond to the retarded Green's functions and Hadamard elementary functions of the free quantum field in a half space. At late times when the combined system is in a stationary state, we obtain exact expressions for the detector's covariance matrix and show that the detector-field entanglement decreases for smaller separation between the detector and the mirror. We explain the behavior of detector-field entanglement qualitatively with the help of a detector's mirror image, compare them with the case of two real detectors and explain the differences.

id: 1301.0077
title: Quantum Decoherence Scaling with Bath Size: Importance of Dynamics, Connectivity, and Randomness
authors: Fengping Jin, Kristel Michielsen, Mark Novotny, Seiji Miyashita, Shengjun Yuan, Hans De Raedt
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 022117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0077
abstract: The decoherence of a quantum system $S$ coupled to a quantum environment $E$ is considered. For states chosen uniformly at random from the unit hypersphere in the Hilbert space of the closed system $S+E$ we derive a scaling relationship for the sum of the off-diagonal elements of the reduced density matrix of $S$ as a function of the size $D_E$ of the Hilbert space of $E$. This sum decreases as $1/\sqrt{D_E}$ as long as $D_E\gg 1$. This scaling prediction is tested by performing large-scale simulations which solve the time-dependent Schr{\"o}dinger equation for a ring of spin-1/2 particles, four of them belonging to $S$ and the others to $E$. Provided that the time evolution drives the whole system from the initial state toward a state which has similar properties as states belonging to the class of quantum states for which we derived the scaling relationship, the scaling prediction holds. For systems which do not exhibit this feature, it is shown that increasing the complexity (in terms of connections) of the environment or introducing a small amount of randomness in the interactions in the environment suffices to observe the predicted scaling behavior.

id: 1301.0089
title: Quantum teleportation and computation with Rydberg atoms in an optical lattice
authors: Huaizhi Wu, Zhen-Biao Yang, Li-Tuo Shen, Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 185502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0089
abstract: Neutral atoms excited to Rydberg states can interact with each other via dipole-dipole interaction, which results in a physical phenomenon named Rydberg blockade mechanism. The effect attracts much attention due to its potential applications in quantum computation and quantum simulation. Quantum teleportation has been the core protocol in quantum information science playing a key role in efficient long-distance quantum communication. Here, we first propose the implementation of teleportation scheme with neutral atoms via Rydberg blockade, in which the entangled states of qubits can readily be prepared and the Bell states measurements just require single qubit operations without precise control of Rydberg interaction. The rapid experimental progress of coherent control of Rydberg excitation, optical trapping techniques and state-selective atomic detection promise the application of the teleportation scheme for scalable quantum computation and many-body quantum simulation using the protocol proposed by D. Gottesman and I. L. Chuang [Nature (London) 402, 390 (1999)] with Rydberg atoms in optical lattice.

id: 1301.0122
title: Persistence of entanglement in thermal states of spin systems
authors: Gehad Sadiek, Sabre Kais
comments: 20 pages, 17 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 245501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0122
abstract: We study and compare the persistence of bipartite entanglement (BE) and multipartite entanglement (ME) in one-dimensional and two-dimensional spin XY models in an external transverse magnetic field under the effect of thermal excitations. We compare the threshold temperature at which the entanglement vanishes in both types of entanglement. We use the entanglement of formation as a measure of the BE and the geometric measure to evaluate the ME of the system. We have found that in both dimensions in the anisotropic and partially anisotropic spin systems at zero temperatures, all types of entanglement decay as the magnetic field increases but are sustained with very small magnitudes at high field values. Also we found that for the same systems, the threshold temperatures of the nearest neighbour (nn) BEs are higher than both of the next-to-nearest neighbour BEs and MEs and the three of them increase monotonically with the magnetic field strength. Thus, as the temperature increases, the ME and the far parts BE of the system become more fragile to thermal excitations compared to the nn BE. For the isotropic system, all types of entanglement and threshold temperatures vanish at the same exact small value of the magnetic field. We emphasise the major role played by both the properties of the ground state of the system and the energy gap in controlling the characteristics of the entanglement and threshold temperatures. In addition, we have shown how an inserted magnetic impurity can be used to preserve all types of entanglement and enhance their threshold temperatures. Furthermore, we found that the quantum effects in the spin systems can be maintained at high temperatures, as the different types of entanglements in the spin lattices are sustained at high temperatures by applying sufficiently high magnetic fields.

id: 1301.0146
title: Entanglement and discord in two-mode Gaussian open quantum systems
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: 7 pages; 3 figures
journal: Physica Scripta, T 147, 014015 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0146
abstract: In the framework of the theory of open systems, we give a description of quantum entanglement and quantum discord for two non-interacting modes embedded in a thermal environment. We describe the evolution of entanglement in terms of the covariance matrix for Gaussian input states. For all values of the temperature of the thermal reservoir, an initial separable squeezed thermal state remains separable for all times. In the case of an entangled initial squeezed thermal state, entanglement suppression (entanglement sudden death) takes place, for non-zero temperatures of the environment. The Gaussian quantum discord, which is a measure of all quantum correlations in the state, including entanglement, decays asymptotically in time.

id: 1301.0185
title: Quantum Speed Limit With Forbidden Speed Intervals
authors: H. F. Chau
comments: revised with clarification, 7 pages, to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0185
abstract: Quantum mechanics imposes fundamental constraints known as quantum speed limits (QSLs) on the information processing speed of all quantum systems. Every QSL known to date comes from the restriction imposed on the evolution time between two quantum states through the value of a single system observable such as the mean energy relative to its ground state. So far these restrictions only place upper bounds on the information processing speed of a quantum system. Here I report QSLs each with permissible information processing speeds separated by forbidden speed intervals. They are found by a systematic and efficient procedure that takes the values of several compatible system observables into account simultaneously. This procedure generalizes almost all existing QSL proofs; and the new QSLs show a novel first order phase transition in the minimum evolution time.

id: 1301.0230
title: Probe spectroscopy of quasienergy states
authors: Matti Silveri, Jani Tuorila, Mika Kemppainen, Erkki Thuneberg
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 134505 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0230
abstract: The present qubit technology, in particular in Josephson qubits, allows an unprecedented control of discrete energy levels. This motivates a new study of the old pump-probe problem, where a discrete quantum system is driven by a strong drive and simultaneously probed by a weaker one. The strong drive is included by the Floquet method and the resulting quasienergy states are then studied with the probe. We study a qubit where the harmonic drive has a significant longitudinal component relative to the static equilibrium state of the qubit. Both analytical and numerical methods are used to solve the problem. We present calculations with realistic parameters and compare the results with recent experimental results. A short introduction to the Floquet method and the probe absorption is given.

id: 1301.0275
title: Tunable ion-photon entanglement in an optical cavity
authors: A. Stute, B. Casabone, P. Schindler, T. Monz, P. O. Schmidt, B. Brandst?tter, T. E. Northup, R. Blatt
comments: 
journal: Nature 485, 482-485 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0275
abstract: Proposed quantum networks require both a quantum interface between light and matter and the coherent control of quantum states. A quantum interface can be realized by entangling the state of a single photon with the state of an atomic or solid-state quantum memory, as demonstrated in recent experiments with trapped ions, neutral atoms, atomic ensembles, and nitrogen-vacancy spins. The entangling interaction couples an initial quantum memory state to two possible light-matter states, and the atomic level structure of the memory determines the available coupling paths. In previous work, these paths' transition parameters determine the phase and amplitude of the final entangled state, unless the memory is initially prepared in a superposition state, a step that requires coherent control. Here we report the fully tunable entanglement of a single 40Ca+ ion and the polarization state of a single photon within an optical resonator. Our method, based on a bichromatic, cavity-mediated Raman transition, allows us to select two coupling paths and adjust their relative phase and amplitude. The cavity setting enables intrinsically deterministic, high-fidelity generation of any two-qubit entangled state. This approach is applicable to a broad range of candidate systems and thus presents itself as a promising method for distributing information within quantum networks.

id: 1301.0281
title: Improving the fidelity of teleportation through noisy channels using weak measurement
authors: T. Pramanik, A. S. Majumdar
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, new section added
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377, 3209 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0281
abstract: We employ the technique of weak measurement in order to enable preservation of teleportation fidelity for two-qubit noisy channels. We consider one or both qubits of a maximally entangled state to undergo amplitude damping, and show that the application of weak measurement and a subsequent reverse operation could lead to a fidelity greater than $2/3$ for any value of the decoherence parameter. The success probability of the protocol decreases with the strength of weak measurement, and is lower when both the qubits are affected by decoherence. Finally, our protocol is shown to work for the Werner state too.

id: 1301.0286
title: Intermodal entanglement in Raman processes
authors: Biswajit Sen, Sandip Kumar Giri, Swapan Mandal, C. H. Raymond Ooi, Anirban Pathak
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033628 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0286
abstract: The operator solution of a completely quantum mechanical Hamiltonian of the Raman processes is used here to investigate the possibility of obtaining intermodal entanglement between different modes involved in the Raman processes (e.g. pump mode, Stokes mode, vibration (phonon) mode and anti-Stokes mode). Intermodal entanglement is reported between a) pump mode and anti-Stokes mode, b) pump mode and vibration (phonon) mode c) Stokes mode and vibration phonon mode, d) Stokes mode and anti-stokes mode in the stimulated Raman processes for the variation of the phase angle of complex eigenvalue $\alpha_{1}$ of pump mode $a$. Some incidents of intermodal entanglement in the spontaneous and the partially spontaneous Raman processes are also reported. Further it is shown that the specific choice of coupling constants may produce genuine entanglement among Stokes mode, anti-Stokes mode and vibration-phonon mode. It is also shown that the two mode entanglement not identified by Duan's criterion may be identified by Hillery-Zubairy criteria. It is further shown that intermodal entanglement, intermodal antibunching and intermodal squeezing are independent phenomena.

id: 1301.0314
title: A demonstration of the necessity of regularization in order to avoid inconsistent results in quantum field theory
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0314
abstract: We will examine a particular mathematical derivation in a paper by P. Falkensteiner and H. Grosse (F&G) [1]. In [1] a quantity "delta(A)" is defined. This quantity is generated when the normal ordered generalized charge operator undergoes a unitary transformation. Using standard mathematical techniques F&G convert "delta(A)" from its original form to another form which is suppose to be equivalent. It will be shown here that the two forms are not equivalent and that there is a mathematical inconsistency in their derivation. We will examine the source of this inconsistency and show that it can be resolved by proper regularization of the mathematical expressions.

id: 1301.0351
title: Global Quantum Circuit Optimization
authors: Raphael Dias da Silva, Einar Pius, Elham Kashefi
comments: 50 pages, 18 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0351
abstract: One of the main goals in quantum circuit optimisation is to reduce the number of ancillary qubits and the depth of computation, to obtain robust computation. However, most of known techniques, based on local rewriting rules, for parallelising quantum circuits will require the addition of ancilla qubits, leading to an undesired space-time tradeoff. Recently several novel approaches based on measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC) techniques attempted to resolve this problem. The key element is to explore the global structure of a given circuit, defined via translation into a corresponding MBQC pattern. It is known that the parallel power of MBQC is superior to the quantum circuit model, and hence in these approaches one could apply the MBQC depth optimisation techniques to achieve a lower depth. However, currently, once the obtained parallel pattern is translated back to a quantum circuit, one should either increase the depth or add ancilla qubits. In this paper we characterise those computations where both optimisation could be achieved together. In doing so we present a new connection between two MBQC depth optimisation procedures, known as the maximally delayed generalised flow and signal shifting. This structural link will allow us to apply an MBQC qubit optimisation procedure known as compactification to a large class of pattern including all those obtained from any arbitrary quantum circuit. We also present a more efficient algorithm (compared to the existing one) for finding the maximally delayed generalised flow for graph states with flow.

id: 1301.0392
title: High-fidelity projective readout of a solid-state spin quantum register
authors: Lucio Robledo, Lilian Childress, Hannes Bernien, Bas Hensen, Paul F. A. Alkemade, Ronald Hanson
comments: final version can be found on www.nature.com
journal: Nature 477, 574-578 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0392
abstract: Initialization and readout of coupled quantum systems are essential ingredients for the implementation of quantum algorithms. If the state of a multi-qubit register can be read out in a single shot, this enables further key resources such as quantum error correction and deterministic quantum teleportation, as well as direct investigation of quantum correlations (entanglement). While spins in solids are attractive candidates for scalable quantum information processing, thus far single-shot detection has only been achieved for isolated qubits. Here, we demonstrate preparation and measurement of a multi-spin quantum register by implementing resonant optical excitation techniques originally developed in atomic physics. We achieve high-fidelity readout of the electronic spin associated with a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centre in diamond at low temperature, and exploit this readout to project up to three nearby nuclear spin qubits onto a well-defined state. Conversely, we can distinguish the state of the nuclear spins in a single shot by mapping it onto and subsequently measuring the electronic spin. Finally, we show compatibility with qubit control by demonstrating initialization, coherent manipulation, and single-shot readout in a single experiment on a two-qubit register, using techniques suitable for extension to larger registers. These results pave the way for the first test of Bell's inequalities on solid-state spins and the implementation of measurement-based quantum information protocols.

id: 1301.0416
title: Non-Markovian probes in ultracold gases
authors: Pinja Haikka, Suzanne McEndoo, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0416
abstract: We present a detailed investigation of the dynamics of two physically different qubit models, dephasing under the effect of an ultracold atomic gas in a Bose-Einstein condensed (BEC) state. We study the robustness of each qubit probe against environmental noise; even though the two models appear very similar at a first glance, we demonstrate that they decohere in a strikingly different way. This result holds significance for studies of reservoir engineering as well as for using the qubits as quantum probes of the ultracold gas. For each model we study whether and when, upon suitable manipulation of the BEC, the dynamics of the qubit can be described by a (non-)Markovian process and consider the the effect of thermal fluctuations on the qubit dynamics. Finally, we provide an intuitive explanation for the phenomena we observe in terms of the spectral density function of the environment.

id: 1301.0459
title: Feedback-controlled adiabatic quantum computation
authors: R. D. Wilson, A. M. Zagoskin, S. Savel'ev, M. J. Everitt, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0459
abstract: We propose a simple feedback-control scheme for adiabatic quantum computation with superconducting flux qubits. The proposed method makes use of existing on-chip hardware to monitor the ground-state curvature, which is then used to control the computation speed to maximize the success probability. We show that this scheme can provide a polynomial speed-up in performance and that it is possible to choose a suitable set of feedback-control parameters for an arbitrary problem Hamiltonian.

id: 1301.0485
title: Ground-State Entanglement Bound for Quantum Energy Teleportation of General Spin-Chain Models
authors: Masahiro Hotta
comments: 24 pages, no figure, to be published in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0485
abstract: Many-body quantum systems in the ground states have zero-point energy due to the uncertainty relation. In many cases, the system in the ground state accompanies spatially-entangled energy density fluctuation via the noncommutativity of the energy density operators, though the total energy takes a fixed value, i.e. the lowest eigenvalue of the Hamiltonian. Quantum energy teleportation (QET) is protocols for extraction of the zero-point energy out of one subsystem using information of a remote measurement of another subsystem. From an operational viewpoint of protocol users, QET can be regarded as an effective rapid energy transportation without breaking all physical laws including causality and local energy conservation. In the protocols, the ground-state entanglement plays a crucial role. In this paper, we show analytically for a general class of spin-chain systems that the entanglement entropy is lower bounded by a positive quadratic function of the teleported energy between the regions of a QET protocol. This supports a general conjecture that ground-state entanglement is an evident physical resource for energy transportation in the context of QET. The result may also deepen our understanding of the energy density fluctuation in condensed matter systems from a new perspective of quantum information theory.

id: 1301.0490
title: Quantum-state transfer from an ion to a photon
authors: A. Stute, B. Casabone, B. Brandst?tter, K. Friebe, T. E. Northup, R. Blatt
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0490
abstract: A quantum network requires information transfer between distant quantum computers, which would enable distributed quantum information processing and quantum communication. One model for such a network is based on the probabilistic measurement of two photons, each entangled with a distant atom or atomic ensemble, where the atoms represent quantum computing nodes. A second, deterministic model transfers information directly from a first atom onto a cavity photon, which carries it over an optical channel to a second atom; a prototype with neutral atoms has recently been demonstrated. In both cases, the central challenge is to find an efficient transfer process that preserves the coherence of the quantum state. Here, following the second scheme, we map the quantum state of a single ion onto a single photon within an optical cavity. Using an ion allows us to prepare the initial quantum state in a deterministic way, while the cavity enables high-efficiency photon generation. The mapping process is time-independent, allowing us to characterize the interplay between efficiency and fidelity. As the techniques for coherent manipulation and storage of multiple ions at a single quantum node are well established, this process offers a promising route toward networks between ion-based quantum computers.

id: 1301.0494
title: Towards quantum gravity measurement by cold atoms
authors: Marcilio Dos Santos, Teodora Oniga, Andrew Mcleman, Martin Caldwell, Charles Wang
comments: 9 pages, to appear in the Journal of Plasma Physics
journal: Journal of Plasma Physics 79, 437 - 442 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0494
abstract: We propose an experiment for the measurement of gravitational effect on cold atoms by applying a one-dimensional vertically sinusoidal oscillation to the magneto-optical trap; and observe the signature of low quantum energy shift of quantum bound states as a consequence of gravitational fluctuation. To this end, we present brief details of the experiment on a BEC, and a simplistic calculation of the Gross-Pitaevskii solution using Thomas-Fermi approximation with focus on the density of the BEC, for the time-dependent perturbation. Moreover, we calculate the power induced by quantum gravity on a generic atomic ensemble. We also address the possible challenges for the measurement of the expected results. And finally, we discuss the prospect of further developing this experiment towards measuring the effect of quantum spacetime fluctuations on cold atoms.

id: 1301.0498
title: Hierarchical quantum communication
authors: Chitra Shukla, Anirban Pathak
comments: 14 pages, 6 tables, no figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377 (2013) 1337-1344
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0498
abstract: A general approach to study the hierarchical quantum information splitting (HQIS) is proposed and the same is used to systematically investigate the possibility of realizing HQIS using different classes of 4-qubit entangled states that are not connected by SLOCC. Explicit examples of HQIS using 4-qubit cluster state and 4-qubit |\Omega> state are provided. Further, the proposed HQIS scheme is generalized to introduce two new aspects of hierarchical quantum communication. To be precise, schemes of probabilistic hierarchical quantum information splitting and hierarchical quantum secret sharing are obtained by modifying the proposed HQIS scheme. A number of practical situations where hierarchical quantum communication would be of use are also presented.

id: 1301.0499
title: Scalable time reversal of Raman echo quantum memory and quantum waveform conversion of light pulse
authors: E. S. Moiseev, S. A. Moiseev
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures, Basic Problems of Optics (BPO 2012), Saint-Petersburg, Russia, October, 15-19, 2012
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 105005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0499
abstract: We have found a new hidden symmetry of time reversal light-atom interaction in the photon echo quantum memory with Raman atomic transition. The time-reversed quantum memory creates generalized conditions for ideal compression/decompression of time duration of the input light pulses and its wavelength. Based on a general analytical approach to this scheme, we have studied the optimal conditions for the light field compression/decompression in resonant atomic systems characterized by realistic spectral properties. The demonstrated necessary conditions for the effective quantum conversion of the light waveform and wavelength are also discussed for various possible realizations of the quantum memory scheme. The performed study promises new capabilities for fundamental study of the light-atom interaction and deterministic quantum manipulation of the light field, significant for quantum communication and quantum computing.

id: 1301.0549
title: Quantum correlations of two-mode Gaussian systems in a thermal environment
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, Physica Scripta, Topical Issue (2013). Contribution at the 19th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (CEWQO-2012), Sinaia, Romania (2012). Extended version of arXiv:1301.0146 from quantum correlations of symmetric Gaussian states to mutual information, quantum and classical correlations of non-symmetric Gaussian states
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0549
abstract: In the framework of the theory of open systems based on completely positive quantum dynamical semigroups, we give a description of continuous variable quantum entanglement and quantum discord for a system consisting of two non-interacting non-resonant bosonic modes embedded in a thermal environment. We study the time evolution of logarithmic negativity, which characterizes the degree of entanglement, and show that in the case of an entangled initial squeezed thermal state, entanglement suppression takes place for all temperatures of the environment, including zero temperature. We analyze the time evolution of the Gaussian quantum discord, which is a measure of all quantum correlations in the bipartite state, including entanglement, and show that discord decays asymptotically in time under the effect of the thermal bath. We describe also the time evolution of classical correlations and quantum mutual information, which measures the total correlations of the quantum system.

id: 1301.0636
title: Efficient quantum memory using a weakly absorbing sample
authors: Mahmood Sabooni, Qian Li, Stefan Kr?ll, Lars Rippe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0636
abstract: A light-storage experiment with a total (storage and retrieval) efficiency $\eta=58 \pm 5%$ is carried out by enclosing a sample, with a single pass absorption of 10%, in an impedance-matched cavity. The experiment is carried out using the Atomic Frequency Comb (AFC) technique in a praseodymium-doped crystal ($0.05%Pr^{3+}:Y_2SiO_5$) and the cavity is created by reflection coating the crystal surfaces. The AFC technique has previously by far demonstrated the highest multi-mode capacity of all quantum memory concepts tested experimentally. We claim that the present work shows that it is realistic to create efficient, on-demand, long storage time AFC memories.

id: 1301.0645
title: R¨¦nyi-2 quantum correlations of two-mode Gaussian systems in a thermal environment
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, Physica Scripta (2013). arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1301.0549, arXiv:1301.0146
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0645
abstract: In the framework of the theory of open systems based on completely positive quantum dynamical semigroups, we give a description of continuous variable Gaussian R\'enyi-2 (GR2) quantum discord for a system consisting of two non-interacting non-resonant bosonic modes embedded in a thermal environment. In the case of both an entangled initial squeezed vacuum state and squeezed thermal state, GR2 quantum discord has non-negative values for all temperatures of the environment. We describe also the time evolution of GR2 classical correlations and GR2 quantum mutual information of the quantum system. All these quantities tend asymptotically to zero in the long time regime under the effect of the thermal bath.

id: 1301.0671
title: Driving three atoms into a singlet state in an optical cavity via adiabatic passage of a dark state
authors: Mei Lu, Yan Xia, Jie Song, He-Shan Song
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 015502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0671
abstract: In this paper, we propose an efficient scheme to drive three atoms in an optical cavity into a singlet state via adiabatic passage. Appropriate Rabi frequencies of the classical fields are selected to realize the present scheme. The scheme is robust against deviations in the pulse delay and laser intensity through some simple analysis of the adiabatic condition. It is notable that the estimated range of the effective adiabaticity condition coincides with the numerical results. When taking dissipation into account, we show that the process is immune to atomic spontaneous emission as the atomic excited states are never populated in adiabatic evolution. Moreover, under certain conditions, the cavity decay can also be efficiently suppressed.

id: 1301.0684
title: One-step generation of multi-atom Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states in separate cavities via adiabatic passage
authors: Si-Yang Hao, Yan Xia, Jie Song, Nguyen Ba An
comments: Accepted by JOSA B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0684
abstract: We propose a scheme to deterministically generate Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states of $N\geq 3$ atoms trapped in spatially separated cavities connected by optical fibers. The scheme is based on the technique of fractional stimulated Raman adiabatic passage which is one-step in the sense that one needs just wait for the desired entangled state to be generated in the stationary regime. The parametrized shapes of the Rabi frequencies of the classical fields that drive the two end atoms are chosen appropriately to realize the scheme. We also show numerically that the proposed scheme is insensitive to the fluctuations of the pulses' parameters and, at the same time, robust against decoherence caused by the dissipation due to fiber decay. Moreover, a relatively high fidelity can be obtained even in the presence of cavity decay and atomic spontaneous emission.

id: 1301.0705
title: An efficient quantum memory based on two-level atoms
authors: Ivan Iakoupov, Anders S. S?rensen
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 085012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0705
abstract: We propose a method to implement a quantum memory for light based on ensembles of two-level atoms. Our protocol is based on controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening (CRIB), where an external field first dephases the atomic polarization and thereby stores an incoming light pulse into collective states of the atomic ensemble, and later a reversal of the applied field leads to a rephasing of the atomic polarization and a reemission of the light. As opposed to previous proposals for CRIB based quantum memories we propose to only apply the broadening for a short period after most of the pulse has already been absorbed by the ensemble. We show that with this procedure there exist certain modes of the incoming light field which can be stored with an efficiency approaching 100% in the limit of high optical depth and long coherence time of the atoms. These results demonstrate that it is possible to operate an efficient quantum memory without any optical control fields.

id: 1301.0774
title: Numerical Optical Centroid Measurements
authors: Qurrat-ul-Ain Gulfam, J?rg Evers
comments: 15 pages, 18 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0774
abstract: Optical imaging methods are typically restricted to a resolution of order of the probing light wavelength $\lambda_p$ by the Rayleigh diffraction limit. This limit can be circumvented by making use of multiphoton detection of correlated $N$-photon states, having an effective wavelength $\lambda_p/N$. But the required $N$-photon detection usually renders these schemes impractical. To overcome this limitation, recently, so-called optical centroid measurements (OCM) have been proposed which replace the multi-photon detectors by an array of single-photon detectors. Complementary to the existing approximate analytical results, we explore the approach using numerical experiments by sampling and analyzing detection events from the initial state wave function. This allows us to quantitatively study the approach also beyond the constraints set by the approximate analytical treatment, to compare different detection strategies, and to analyze other classes of input states.

id: 1301.0826
title: Noise-resistant control for a spin qubit array
authors: J. P. Kestner, Xin Wang, Lev S. Bishop, Edwin Barnes, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages + 4 pages supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 140502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0826
abstract: We develop a systematic method of performing corrected gate operations on an array of exchange-coupled singlet-triplet qubits in the presence of both fluctuating nuclear Overhauser field gradients and charge noise. The single-qubit control sequences we present have a simple form, are relatively short, and form the building blocks of a corrected CNOT gate when also implemented on the inter-qubit exchange link. This is a key step towards enabling large-scale quantum computation in a semiconductor-based architecture by facilitating error reduction below the quantum error correction threshold for both single-qubit and multi-qubit gate operations.

id: 1301.0855
title: Non-equilibrium equalities with unital quantum channels
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 13 pages, no figures. Minor grammatical improvements. The bibliography is updated
journal: J. Stat. Mech. P06016 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0855
abstract: A general tool for description of open quantum systems is given by the formalism of quantum operations. Most important of them are trace-preserving maps also known as quantum channels. We discuss those conditions on quantum channels under which the Jarzynski equality and related fluctuation theorems hold. It is essential that the representing quantum channel be unital. Under the mentioned condition, we first derive the corresponding Jarzynski equality. For bistochastic map and its adjoint, we further formulate a theorem of Tasaki-Crooks type. In the context of unital channels, some notes on heat transfer between two quantum systems are given. We also consider the case of a finite system operated by an external agent with a feedback control. When unital channels are applied at the first stage and, for a mutual-information form, at the further ones, we obtain quantum Jarzynski-Sagawa-Ueda relations. These are extension of the previously given results to unital quantum operations.

id: 1301.0987
title: Coherent control of single photons in the cross resonator arrays via the dark state mechanism
authors: T. Tian, D. Z. Xu, T. Y. Zheng, C. P. Sun
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0987
abstract: We study the single photon transfer in a hybrid system where the normal modes of two coupled resonator arrays interact with two transition arms of a ?-type atom localized in the intersectional resonator. It is found that, due to the Fano-Feshbach effect based on the dark state of the ?-type atom, the photon transfer in one array can be well controlled by the bound state of the photon in the other array. This conceptual setup could be implemented in some practical cavity QED system to realize a quantum switch for single photon.

id: 1301.1005
title: A Limitation of the Nakajima-Zwanzig projection method
authors: M. Arsenijevic, J. Jeknic-Dugic, M. Dugic
comments: around 13 pages, no figures or tables, updated references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1005
abstract: There is current interest in dynamical description of dif- ferent decompositions of a quantum system into subsystems. We investi- gate usefulness of the Nakajima-Zwanzig projection method in this context. Particularly, we are interested in simultaneous description of dynamics of open systems pertaining to dierent system-environment splits (decompo- sitions). We ?nd that the Nakajima-Zwanzig and related projection meth- ods are system-environment split speci?c, that every system-environment split requires speci?c projector, and that projector adapted to a split nei- ther provides information about nor commute with a projector adapted to an alternative system-environment split. Our ?ndings refer to ?nite- and in?nite-dimensional systems and to arbitrary kinds of system-environment splitting. These ?ndings are a direct consequence of the recently established quantum correlations relativity. We emphasize the subtlety and delicacy re- quired of the task of simultaneously describing the dynamics of alternate system-environment splits.

id: 1301.1016
title: Unconditional quantum-noise suppression via measurement-based quantum feedback
authors: Ryotaro Inoue, Shin-Ichi-Ro Tanaka, Ryo Namiki, Takahiro Sagawa, Yoshiro Takahashi
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 163602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1016
abstract: We demonstrate unconditional quantum-noise suppression in a collective spin system via feedback control based on quantum non-demolition measurement (QNDM). We perform shot-noise limited collective spin measurements on an ensemble of $3.7\times 10^5$ laser-cooled 171Yb atoms in their spin-1/2 ground states. Correlation between two sequential QNDMs indicates $-0.80^{+0.11}_{-0.12}\,\mathrm{dB}$ quantum noise suppression in a conditional manner. Our feedback control successfully converts the conditional quantum-noise suppression into the unconditional one without significant loss of the noise

id: 1301.1022
title: Local witness for bipartite quantum discord
authors: Manuel Gessner, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042107 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1022
abstract: Recently, we proposed a method for the local detection of quantum correlations on the basis of local measurements and state tomography at different instances in time [Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 180402 (2011)]. The method allows for the detection of quantum discord in bipartite systems when access is restricted to only one of the subsystems. Here, we elaborate the details of this method and provide applications to specific physical models. In particular, we discuss the performance of the scheme for generic complex systems by investigating thermal equilibrium states corresponding to randomly generated Hamiltonians. Moreover, we formulate an ergodicity-like hypothesis which links the time average to the analytically obtained average over the group of unitary operators equipped with the Haar measure.

id: 1301.1033
title: Generic features of the dynamics of complex open quantum systems: Statistical approach based on averages over the unitary group
authors: Manuel Gessner, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures, 4 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 042128 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1033
abstract: We obtain exact analytic expressions for a class of functions expressed as integrals over the Haar measure of the unitary group in d dimensions. Based on these general mathematical results, we investigate generic dynamical properties of complex open quantum systems, employing arguments from ensemble theory. We further generalize these results to arbitrary eigenvalue distributions, allowing a detailed comparison of typical regular and chaotic systems with the help of concepts from random matrix theory. To illustrate the physical relevance and the general applicability of our results we present a series of examples related to the fields of open quantum systems and nonequilibrium quantum thermodynamics. These include the effect of initial correlations, the average quantum dynamical maps, the generic dynamics of system-environment pure state entanglement and, finally, the equilibration of generic open and closed quantum systems.

id: 1301.1050
title: Discrete time quantum walk with nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond coupled to a superconducting flux qubit
authors: Ali ?. C. Hardal, Peng Xue, Yutaka Shikano, ?zg¨¹r E. M¨¹stecapl\ioglu, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 88, 022303 (2013) [11 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1050
abstract: We propose a quantum-electrodynamics scheme for implementing the discrete-time, coined quantum walk with the walker corresponding to the phase degree of freedom for a quasi-magnon field realized in an ensemble of nitrogen-vacancy centres in diamond. The coin is realized as a superconducting flux qubit. Our scheme improves on an existing proposal for implementing quantum walks in cavity quantum electrodynamics by removing the cumbersome requirement of varying drive-pulse durations according to mean quasiparticle number. Our improvement is relevant to all indirect-coin-flip cavity quantum-electrodynamics realizations of quantum walks. Our numerical analysis shows that this scheme can realize a discrete quantum walk under realistic conditions.

id: 1301.1069
title: A Snapshot of Foundational Attitudes Toward Quantum Mechanics
authors: Maximilian Schlosshauer, Johannes Kofler, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Stud. Hist. Phil. Mod. Phys. 44, 222-230 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1069
abstract: Foundational investigations in quantum mechanics, both experimental and theoretical, gave birth to the field of quantum information science. Nevertheless, the foundations of quantum mechanics themselves remain hotly debated in the scientific community, and no consensus on essential questions has been reached. Here, we present the results of a poll carried out among 33 participants of a conference on the foundations of quantum mechanics. The participants completed a questionnaire containing 16 multiple-choice questions probing opinions on quantum-foundational issues. Participants included physicists, philosophers, and mathematicians. We describe our findings, identify commonly held views, and determine strong, medium, and weak correlations between the answers. Our study provides a unique snapshot of current views in the field of quantum foundations, as well as an analysis of the relationships between these views.

id: 1301.1094
title: Confusability graphs for symmetric sets of quantum states
authors: Giulio Chiribella, Yuxiang Yang
comments: 7 pages, no figures, contribution to the Proceedings of the XXIX International Colloquium on Group-Theoretical Methods in Physics, August 22-26, Chern Institute of Mathematics, Tianjin, China
journal: Symmetries and Groups in Contemporary Physics, C. Bai, J.P. Gazeau, and M.- L. Ge eds., Nankai Series in Pure, Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics, 11 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1094
abstract: For a set of quantum states generated by the action of a group, we consider the graph obtained by considering two group elements adjacent whenever the corresponding states are non-orthogonal. We analyze the structure of the connected components of the graph and show two applications to the optimal estimation of an unknown group action and to the search for decoherence free subspaces of quantum channels with symmetry.

id: 1301.1110
title: Casimir expulsion of shifted configurations
authors: Evgeny G. Fateev
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures; added hyperlinks; correction form of equations (3) and (9)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1110
abstract: The shift of nanosized metal configurations relative to one another can lead to an increase in the range of optimal lengths of wings and angles of the opening of cavities, at which noncompensated Casimir forces in them are maximal. The possibility of the existence of the effect of Casimir expulsion is demonstrated with a trapezoid cavity with shifted wings which are opened at different angles. It is also shown that shift in parallel structures leads to the appearance of forces tending to bring the configuration back to the situation before the shift. In some conditions, in systems with shifted structures there are moments of torsion and complex oscillation processes.

id: 1301.1115
title: On models of nonlinear evolution paths in adiabatic quantum algorithms
authors: Jie Sun, Songfeng Lu, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: 11 pages
journal: Communications in Theoretical Physics,59(1), (2013) 22-26
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1115
abstract: In this paper, we study two different nonlinear interpolating paths in adiabatic evolution algorithms for solving a particular class of quantum search problems where both the initial and final Hamiltonian are one-dimensional projector Hamiltonians on the corresponding ground state. If the overlap between the initial state and final state of the quantum system is not equal to zero, both of these models can provide a constant time speedup over the usual adiabatic algorithms by increasing some another corresponding "complexity". But when the initial state has a zero overlap with the solution state in the problem, the second model leads to an infinite time complexity of the algorithm for whatever interpolating functions being applied while the first one can still provide a constant running time. However, inspired by a related reference, a variant of the first model can be constructed which also fails for the problem when the overlap is exactly equal to zero if we want to make up the "intrinsic" fault of the second model-an increase in energy. Two concrete theorems are given to serve as explanations why neither of these two models can improve the usual adiabatic evolution algorithms for the phenomenon above. These just tell us what should be noted when using certain nonlinear evolution paths in adiabatic quantum algorithms for some special kind of problems.

id: 1301.1127
title: Laser trapping of ions and asymptotic minimization of Decoherence
authors: Samyadeb Bhattacharya, Sisir Roy
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, accepted for publication in Modern Physics Letters B
journal: Modern Physics Letters B, Vol. 27, No. 18 (2013) 1350137
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1127
abstract: Decoherence time has been calculated for an optical ion trap of Be atoms in a bistable potential model. Comparison has been made between decoherence time and Zeno time for double well potential as a special case. Zeno time is considered as a lower limit of decoherence time for sustainable quantum coherence. Equality of the respective timescales provides a certain transitional temperature, below which decoherence can be asymptotically minimized.

id: 1301.1132
title: Strategy for quantum algorithm design assisted by machine learning
authors: Jeongho Bang, Junghee Ryu, Seokwon Yoo, Marcin Pawlowski, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: published version
journal: New Journal of Physics 16 (2014) 073017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1132
abstract: We propose a method for quantum algorithm design assisted by machine learning. The method uses a quantum-classical hybrid simulator, where a "quantum student" is being taught by a "classical teacher." In other words, in our method, the learning system is supposed to evolve into a quantum algorithm for a given problem assisted by classical main-feedback system. Our method is applicable to design quantum oracle-based algorithm. As a case study, we chose an oracle decision problem, called a Deutsch-Jozsa problem. We showed by using Monte-Carlo simulations that our simulator can faithfully learn quantum algorithm to solve the problem for given oracle. Remarkably, learning time is proportional to the square root of the total number of parameters instead of the exponential dependance found in the classical machine learning based method.

id: 1301.1160
title: Fast transport, atom sample splitting, and single-atom qubit supply in two-dimensional arrays of optical microtraps
authors: Malte Schlosser, Jens Kruse, Christian Gierl, Stephan Teichmann, Sascha Tichelmann, Gerhard Birkl
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. vol. 14, 123034 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1160
abstract: Two-dimensional arrays of optical micro-traps created by microoptical elements present a versatile and scalable architecture for neutral atom quantum information processing, quantum simulation, and the manipulation of ultra-cold quantum gases. In this article, we demonstrate advanced capabilities of this approach by introducing novel techniques and functionalities as well as the combined operation of previously separately implemented functions. We introduce piezo-actuator based transport of atom ensembles over distances of more than one trap separation, examine the capabilities of rapid atom transport provided by acousto-optical beam steering, and analyze the adiabaticity limit for atom transport in these configurations. We implement a spatial light modulator with 8-bit transmission control for the per-site adjustment of the trap depth and the number of atoms loaded. We combine single-site addressing, trap depth control, and atom transport in one configuration for demonstrating the splitting of atom ensembles with variable ratio at predefined register sites. Finally, we use controlled sub-poissonian preparation of single trapped atoms from such an ensemble to show that our approach allows for the implementation of a continuous supply of single-atom qubits with high fidelity. These novel implementations and their combined operation significantly extend available techniques for the dynamical and reconfigurable manipulation of ultracold atoms in dipole traps.

id: 1301.1162
title: An area law and sub-exponential algorithm for 1D systems
authors: Itai Arad, Alexei Kitaev, Zeph Landau, Umesh Vazirani
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1162
abstract: We give a new proof for the area law for general 1D gapped systems, which exponentially improves Hastings' famous result \cite{ref:Has07}. Specifically, we show that for a chain of d-dimensional spins, governed by a 1D local Hamiltonian with a spectral gap \eps>0, the entanglement entropy of the ground state with respect to any cut in the chain is upper bounded by $O{\frac{\log^3 d}{\eps}}$. Our approach uses the framework Arad et al to construct a Chebyshev-based AGSP (Approximate Ground Space Projection) with favorable factors. However, our construction uses the Hamiltonian directly, instead of using the Detectability lemma, which allows us to work with general (frustrated) Hamiltonians, as well as slightly improving the $1/\eps$ dependence of the bound in Arad et al. To achieve that, we establish a new, "random-walk like", bound on the entanglement rank of an arbitrary power of a 1D Hamiltonian, which might be of independent interest: \ER{H^\ell} \le (\ell d)^{O(\sqrt{\ell})}. Finally, treating d as a constant, our AGSP shows that the ground state is well approximated by a matrix product state with a sublinear bond dimension $B=e^{O(\log^{3/4}n/\eps^{1/4})}. Using this in conjunction with known dynamical programing algorithms, yields an algorithm for a 1/\poly(n) approximation of the ground energy with a subexponential running time T\le \exp(e^{O(\log^{3/4}n/\eps^{1/4})}).

id: 1301.1166
title: Quantum channels from association schemes
authors: Tao Feng, Simone Severini
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1166
abstract: We propose in this note the study of quantum channels from association schemes. This is done by interpreting the $(0,1)$-matrices of a scheme as the Kraus operators of a channel. Working in the framework of one-shot zero-error information theory, we give bounds and closed formulas for various independence numbers of the relative non-commutative (confusability) graphs, or, equivalently, graphical operator systems. We use pseudocyclic association schemes as an example. In this case, we show that the unitary entanglement-assisted independence number grows at least quadratically faster, with respect to matrix size, than the independence number. The latter parameter was introduced by Beigi and Shor as a generalization of the one-shot Shannon capacity, in analogy with the corresponding graph-theoretic notion.

id: 1301.1170
title: Optimal design and quantum benchmarks for coherent state amplifiers
authors: Giulio Chiribella, Jinyu Xie
comments: 5 + 8 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 213602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1170
abstract: We establish the ultimate quantum limits to the amplification of an unknown coherent state, both in the deterministic and probabilistic case, investigating the realistic scenario where the expected photon number is finite. In addition, we provide the benchmark that experimental realizations have to surpass in order to beat all classical amplification strategies and to demonstrate genuine quantum amplification. Our result guarantees that a successful demonstration is in principle possible for every finite value of the expected photon number.

id: 1301.1244
title: Path integral approach to space-time probabilities: a theory without pitfalls but with strict rules
authors: Dmitri Sokolovski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1244
abstract: Following the renewed interest in the topic [1], we revisit the problem of assigning probabilities to classes of Feynman paths passing through specified space-time regions. We show that by assigning of probabilities to interfering alternatives, one already makes an assumption that the interference has been destroyed through interaction with an environment, or a meter. Including the effects of the meter allows to construct a consistent theory, free of logical 'pitfalls' identified in Ref. [1]. Wherever a meter cannot be constructed, or cannot be set to perform the desired decoherence, formally constructed probabilities have no clear physical meaning, and can violate the necessary sum rules. We illustrate the above approach by analysing the three examples considered in [1].

id: 1301.1284
title: Maxwell Demon from a Quantum Bayesian Networks Perspective
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 30 pages (6 files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty, 3 .eps)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1284
abstract: We propose a new inequality that we call the conditional ageing inequality (CAIN). The CAIN is a slight generalization to non-equilibrium situations of the Second Law of thermodynamics. The goal of this paper is to study the consequences of the CAIN. We use the CAIN to discuss Maxwell demon processes (i.e., thermodynamic processes with feedback.) In particular, we apply the CAIN to four cases of the Szilard engine: for a classical or a quantum system with either one or two correlated particles. Besides proposing this new inequality that we call the CAIN, another novel feature of this paper is that we use quantum Bayesian networks for our analysis of Maxwell demon processes.

id: 1301.1344
title: Non-equilibrium Fractional Quantum Hall state of light
authors: Mohammad Hafezi, Mikhail D. Lukin, Jacob M. Taylor
comments: v2: minor corrections
journal: New J. Phys. 15 063001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1344
abstract: We investigate the quantum dynamics of systems involving small numbers of strongly interacting photons. Specifically, we develop an efficient method to investigate such systems when they are externally driven with a coherent field. Furthermore, we show how to quantify the many-body quantum state of light via correlation functions. Finally, we apply this method to two strongly interacting cases: the Bose-Hubbard and fractional quantum Hall models, and discuss an implementation of these ideas in atom-photon system.

id: 1301.1363
title: Quantum Systems on Non-$k$-Hyperfinite Complexes: A Generalization of Classical Statistical Mechanics on Expander Graphs
authors: M. H. Freedman, M. B. Hastings
comments: v2: typos fixed, final version in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1363
abstract: We construct families of cell complexes that generalize expander graphs. These families are called non-$k$-hyperfinite, generalizing the idea of a non-hyperfinite (NH) family of graphs. Roughly speaking, such a complex has the property that one cannot remove a small fraction of points and be left with an object that looks $k-1$-dimensional at large scales. We then consider certain quantum systems on these complexes. A future goal is to construct a family of Hamiltonians such that every low energy state has topological order as part of an attempt to prove the quantum PCP conjecture. This goal is approached by constructing a toric code Hamiltonian with the property that every low energy state without vertex defects has topological order, a property that would not hold for any local system in any lattice $Z^d$ or indeed on any 1-hyperfinite complex. Further, such NH complexes find application in quantum coding theory. The hypergraph product codes[1] of Tillich and Z\'{e}mor are generalized using NH complexes.

id: 1301.1376
title: Photon transport in binary photonic lattices
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 87 038116 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1376
abstract: We present a review on the mathematical methods used to theoretically study classical propagation and quantum transport in arrays of coupled photonic waveguides. We focus on analysing two types of binary photonic lattices where self-energies or couplings are alternated. For didactic reasons, we split the analysis in classical propagation and quantum transport but all methods can be implemented, mutatis mutandis, in any given case. On the classical side, we use coupled mode theory and present an operator approach to Floquet-Bloch theory in order to study the propagation of a classical electromagnetic field in two particular infinite binary lattices. On the quantum side, we study the transport of photons in equivalent finite and infinite binary lattices by couple mode theory and linear algebra methods involving orthogonal polynomials. Curiously the dynamics of finite size binary lattices can be expressed as roots and functions of Fibonacci polynomials.

id: 1301.1381
title: Derivation of Markovian master equations for spatially correlated decoherence
authors: Jan Jeske, Jared H. Cole
comments: 6 page paper, 3 page appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052138 (2013) [8 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1381
abstract: We introduce a general formalism to describe the effects of Markovian noise which is spatially correlated, typically decaying over some finite correlation length. For any system of interest, this formalism describes spatial correlations without the necessity to choose a particular microscopic model for the environment. We present a method of mapping the equations to Lindblad form and discuss functional forms for homogeneous spatial correlation functions. We also discuss two example microscopic models for the environment which exhibit non-trivial spatial-temporal correlation functions.

id: 1301.1382
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency and slow light in two-mode optomechanics
authors: Cheng Jiang, Hongxiang Liu, Yuanshun Cui, Xiaowei Li
comments: 16 pages
journal: Opt. Express(2013) 21, 12165
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1382
abstract: We theoretically demonstrate the mechanically mediated electromagnetically induced transparency in a two-mode cavity optomechanical system, where two cavity modes are coupled to a common mechanical resonator. When the two cavity modes are driven on their respective red sidebands by two pump beams, a transparency window appears in the probe transmission spectrum due to destructive interference. Under this situation the transmitted probe beam can be delayed as much as 4 us, which can be easily controlled by the power of the pump beams. In addition, we also investigate the amplification of the transmitted probe beam owing to constructive interference when one cavity is driven on its blue sideband while another one is driven on its red sideband.

id: 1301.1406
title: The Minimum Size of Unextendible Product Bases in the Bipartite Case (and Some Multipartite Cases)
authors: Jianxin Chen, Nathaniel Johnston
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: Comm. Math. Phys., 333(1):351-365, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1406
abstract: A long-standing open question asks for the minimum number of vectors needed to form an unextendible product basis in a given bipartite or multipartite Hilbert space. A partial solution was found by Alon and Lovasz in 2001, but since then only a few other cases have been solved. We solve all remaining bipartite cases, as well as a large family of multipartite cases.

id: 1301.1448
title: Testing Information Causality for General Quantum Communication Protocols
authors: I-Ching Yu, Feng-Li Lin
comments: 48 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1448
abstract: Information causality was proposed as a physical principle to put upper bound on the accessible information gain in a physical bi-partite communication scheme. Intuitively, the information gain cannot be larger than the amount of classical communication to avoid violation of causality. Moreover, it was shown that this bound is consistent with the Tsirelson bound for the binary quantum systems. In this paper, we test the information causality for the more general (non-binary) quantum communication schemes. In order to apply the semi-definite programming method to find the maximal information gain, we only consider the schemes in which the information gain is monotonically related to the Bell-type functions, i.e., the generalization of CHSH functions for Bell inequalities in a binary schemes. We determine these Bell-type functions by using the signal decay theorem. Our results support the proposal of information causality. We also find the maximal information gain by numerical brute-force method for the most general 2-level and 2-setting quantum communication schemes. Our results show that boundary for the information causality bound does not agree with the one for the Tsirelson bound.

id: 1301.1451
title: Cavity-Enhanced Long-Distance Coupling of an Atomic Ensemble to a Micromechanical Membrane
authors: B. Vogell, K. Stannigel, P. Zoller, K. Hammerer, M. T. Rakher, M. Korppi, A. J?ckel, P. Treutlein
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, slightly revised version
journal: Physical Review A 87, 023816 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1451
abstract: We discuss a hybrid quantum system where a dielectric membrane situated inside an optical cavity is coupled to a distant atomic ensemble trapped in an optical lattice. The coupling is mediated by the exchange of sideband photons of the lattice laser, and is enhanced by the cavity finesse as well as the square root of the number of atoms. In addition to observing coherent dynamics between the two systems, one can also switch on a tailored dissipation by laser cooling the atoms, thereby allowing for sympathetic cooling of the membrane. The resulting cooling scheme does not require resolved sideband conditions for the cavity, which relaxes a constraint present in standard optomechanical cavity cooling. We present a quantum mechanical treatment of this modular open system which takes into account the dominant imperfections, and identify optimal operation points for both coherent dynamics and sympathetic cooling. In particular, we find that ground state cooling of a cryogenically pre-cooled membrane is possible for realistic parameters.

id: 1301.1500
title: Quantum memory for microwave photons in an inhomogeneously broadened spin ensemble
authors: Brian Julsgaard, C¨¦cile Grezes, Patrice Bertet, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 11 pages supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 250503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1500
abstract: We propose a multi-mode quantum memory protocol able to store the quantum state of the field in a microwave resonator into an ensemble of electronic spins. The stored information is protected against inhomogeneous broadening of the spin ensemble by spin-echo techniques resulting in memory times orders of magnitude longer than previously achieved. By calculating the evolution of the first and second moments of the spin-cavity system variables for realistic experimental parameters, we show that a memory based on NV center spins in diamond can store a qubit encoded on the |0> and |1> Fock states of the field with 80% fidelity.

id: 1301.1501
title: A dynamical composition law for boundary conditions
authors: Manuel Asorey, Paolo Facchi, Giuseppe Marmo, Saverio Pascazio
comments: 9 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 102001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1501
abstract: We analyze the quantum dynamics of a non-relativistic particle moving in a bounded domain of physical space, when the boundary conditions are rapidly changed. In general, this yields new boundary conditions, via a dynamical composition law that is a very simple instance of superposition of different topologies. In all cases unitarity is preserved and the quick change of boundary conditions does not introduce any decoherence in the system. Among the emerging boundary conditions, the Dirichlet case (vanishing wave function at the boundary) plays the role of an attractor. Possible experimental implementations with superconducting quantum interference devices are explored and analyzed.

id: 1301.1504
title: Quantum memory using a hybrid circuit with flux qubits and NV centers
authors: Xin-You L¨¹, Ze-Liang Xiang, Wei Cui, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012329 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1504
abstract: We propose how to realize high-fidelity quantum storage using a hybrid quantum architecture including two coupled flux qubits and a nitrogen-vacancy center ensemble (NVE). One of the flux qubits is considered as the quantum computing processor and the NVE serves as the quantum memory. By separating the computing and memory units, the influence of the quantum computing process on the quantum memory can be effectively eliminated, and hence the quantum storage of an arbitrary quantum state of the computing qubit could be achieved with high fidelity. Furthermore the present proposal is robust with respect to fluctuations of the system parameters, and it is experimentally feasibile with currently available technology.

id: 1301.1546
title: Single-site addressing of ultracold atoms beyond the diffraction limit via position dependent adiabatic passage
authors: Daniel Viscor, Juan Luis Rubio, Gerhard Birkl, Jordi Mompart, Ver¨°nica Ahufinger
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063409 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1546
abstract: We propose a single-site addressing implementation based on the sub-wavelength localization via adiabatic passage (SLAP) technique. We consider a sample of ultracold neutral atoms loaded into a two-dimensional optical lattice with one atom per site. Each atom is modeled by a three-level \Lambda-system in interaction with a pump and a Stokes laser pulse. Using a pump field with a node in its spatial profile, the atoms at all sites are transferred from one ground state of the system to the other via stimulated Raman adiabatic passage, except the one at the position of the node that remains in the initial ground state. This technique allows for the preparation, manipulation, and detection of atoms with a spatial resolution better than the diffraction limit, which either relaxes the requirements on the optical setup used or extends the achievable spatial resolution to lattice spacings smaller than accessible to date. In comparison to techniques based on coherent population trapping, SLAP gives a higher addressing resolution and has additional advantages such as robustness against parameter variations, coherence of the transfer process, and the absence of photon induced recoil. Additionally, the advantages of our proposal with respect to adiabatic spin-flip techniques are highlighted. Analytic expressions for the achievable addressing resolution and efficiency are derived and compared to numerical simulations for Rb-87 atoms in state-of-the-art optical lattices.

id: 1301.1577
title: Quantum interferometry with three-dimensional geometry
authors: N. Spagnolo, L. Aparo, C. Vitelli, A. Crespi, R. Ramponi, R. Osellame, P. Mataloni, F. Sciarrino
comments: 7 pages (+4 Supplementary Information), 5 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 2, 862 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1577
abstract: Quantum interferometry uses quantum resources to improve phase estimation with respect to classical methods. Here we propose and theoretically investigate a new quantum interferometric scheme based on three-dimensional waveguide devices. These can be implemented by femtosecond laser waveguide writing, recently adopted for quantum applications. In particular, multiarm interferometers include "tritter" and "quarter" as basic elements, corresponding to the generalization of a beam splitter to a 3- and 4-port splitter, respectively. By injecting Fock states in the input ports of such interferometers, fringe patterns characterized by nonclassical visibilities are expected. This enables outperforming the quantum Fisher information obtained with classical fields in phase estimation. We also discuss the possibility of achieving the simultaneous estimation of more than one optical phase. This approach is expected to open new perspectives to quantum enhanced sensing and metrology performed in integrated photonic.

id: 1301.1594
title: Identifying the Information Gain of a Quantum Measurement
authors: Mario Berta, Joseph M. Renes, Mark M. Wilde
comments: v2: new result about non-feedback measurement simulation, 45 pages, 4 figures
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 60, no. 12, pages 7987-8006, December 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1594
abstract: We show that quantum-to-classical channels, i.e., quantum measurements, can be asymptotically simulated by an amount of classical communication equal to the quantum mutual information of the measurement, if sufficient shared randomness is available. This result generalizes Winter's measurement compression theorem for fixed independent and identically distributed inputs [Winter, CMP 244 (157), 2004] to arbitrary inputs, and more importantly, it identifies the quantum mutual information of a measurement as the information gained by performing it, independent of the input state on which it is performed. Our result is a generalization of the classical reverse Shannon theorem to quantum-to-classical channels. In this sense, it can be seen as a quantum reverse Shannon theorem for quantum-to-classical channels, but with the entanglement assistance and quantum communication replaced by shared randomness and classical communication, respectively. The proof is based on a novel one-shot state merging protocol for "classically coherent states" as well as the post-selection technique for quantum channels, and it uses techniques developed for the quantum reverse Shannon theorem [Berta et al., CMP 306 (579), 2011].

id: 1301.1659
title: Strong coupling between single atoms and non-transversal photons
authors: Christian Junge, Danny O'Shea, J¨¹rgen Volz, Arno Rauschenbeutel
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1659
abstract: We investigate the interaction between single quantum emitters and non-transversally polarised photons for which the electric field vector amplitude has a significant component in the direction of propagation. Even though this situation seems to be at odds with the description of light as a transverse wave, it regularly occurs when interfacing or manipulating emitters with non-paraxial, guided, or evanescent light. Here, we couple single rubidium atoms to single photons which are confined in an optical microresonator by continuous total internal reflection. We experimentally show that the non-transversal polarisation decisively alters the physics of strong light--matter interaction. This effect has far-reaching and highly advantageous implications, which, e.g., significantly advance the field of cavity quantum electrodynamics with whispering-gallery-mode resonators. In particular, our finding allows us to experimentally realise a paradigmatic quantum system, which is ideally suited for basic studies and technological applications.

id: 1301.1670
title: A Local Realist Account of the Weihs et al EPRB Experiment
authors: Donald A. Graft
comments: Added clarifying material and reformatted in two column format
journal: Physics Essays, Volume 26, Issue 2, 214-222 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1670
abstract: Quantum mechanics stands in conflict with local realism only in its treatment of separated systems. A modification of quantum mechanics that changes the handling of separated systems is suggested that can reconcile quantum mechanics with local realism. An apparent obstacle to this program is the experimental evidence, but I argue that the experiments have been misinterpreted. By way of example, I describe a local realistic account of one important EPRB experiment that is claimed to demonstrate nonlocal entanglement. The local model can be calibrated into both quantum and classical domains via adjustment of parameters of the apparatus. Weihs incorrectly dismisses these parameters as uncritical, whereas we show that device calibration is crucial. When properly interpreted, the experiments show that nonlocal entanglement is an error. The rest of quantum mechanics remains intact, and remains highly valued as a powerful probability calculus for observables. Quantum mechanics and local realism can be reconciled, and they each can offer useful paradigms for describing systems.

id: 1301.1673
title: Two-photon interferometry illuminates quantum measurements
authors: Art Hobson
comments: 1 figure. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1206.5189
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1673
abstract: The quantum measurement problem still finds no consensus. Nonlocal interferometry provides an unprecedented experimental probe by entangling two photons in the "measurement state" (MS). The experiments show that each photon "measures" the other; the resulting entanglement decoheres both photons; decoherence collapses both photons to unpredictable but definite outcomes; and the two-photon MS continues evolving coherently. Thus, contrary to common opinion, when a two-part system is in the MS, the outcomes actually observed at both subsystems are definite. Although standard quantum physics postulates definite outcomes, two-photon interferometry verifies them to be not only consistent with, but actually a prediction of, the other principles. Nonlocality is the key to understanding this. As a consequence of nonlocality, the states we actually observe are the local states. These actually-observed local states collapse, while the global MS, which can be "observed" only after the fact by collecting coincidence data from both subsystems, continues its unitary evolution. This conclusion implies a refined understanding of the eigenstate principle: Following a measurement, the actually-observed local state instantly jumps into the observed eigenstate. Various experts' objections are rebutted.

id: 1301.1719
title: High-fidelity CZ gate for resonator-based superconducting quantum computers
authors: Joydip Ghosh, Andrei Galiautdinov, Zhongyuan Zhou, Alexander N. Korotkov, John M. Martinis, Michael R. Geller
comments: 22 pages
journal: Physical Review A 87, 022309 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1719
abstract: A possible building block for a scalable quantum computer has recently been demonstrated [M. Mariantoni et al., Science 334, 61 (2011)]. This architecture consists of superconducting qubits capacitively coupled both to individual memory resonators as well as a common bus. In this work we study a natural primitive entangling gate for this and related resonator-based architectures, which consists of a CZ operation between a qubit and the bus. The CZ gate is implemented with the aid of the non-computational qubit |2> state [F. W. Strauch et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 167005 (2003)]. Assuming phase or transmon qubits with 300 MHz anharmonicity, we show that by using only low frequency qubit-bias control it is possible to implement the qubit-bus CZ gate with 99.9% (99.99%) fidelity in about 17ns (23ns) with a realistic two-parameter pulse profile, plus two auxiliary z rotations. The fidelity measure we refer to here is a state-averaged intrinsic process fidelity, which does not include any effects of noise or decoherence. These results apply to a multi-qubit device that includes strongly coupled memory resonators. We investigate the performance of the qubit-bus CZ gate as a function of qubit anharmonicity, indentify the dominant intrinsic error mechanism and derive an associated fidelity estimator, quantify the pulse shape sensitivity and precision requirements, simulate qubit-qubit CZ gates that are mediated by the bus resonator, and also attempt a global optimization of system parameters including resonator frequencies and couplings. Our results are relevant for a wide range of superconducting hardware designs that incorporate resonators and suggest that it should be possible to demonstrate a 99.9% CZ gate with existing transmon qubits, which would constitute an important step towards the development of an error-corrected superconducting quantum computer.

id: 1301.1723
title: Study of dipole moments of LiSr and KRb molecules by quantum Monte Carlo methods
authors: Shi Guo, Michal Bajdich, Lubos Mitas, Peter J. Reynolds
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables, 78 references. Submitted to a special issue of Molecular Physics on "Manipulation of Molecules with Electromagnetic Fields." Published June 2013. this http URL
journal: Molecular Physics Volume 111, Issue 12-13, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1723
abstract: Heteronuclear dimers are of significant interest to experiments seeking to exploit ultracold polar molecules in a number of novel ways including precision measurement, quantum computing, and quantum simulation. We calculate highly accurate Born-Oppenheimer total energies and electric dipole moments as a function of internuclear separation for two such dimers, LiSr and KRb. We apply fully-correlated, high-accuracy quantum Monte Carlo methods for evaluating these molecular properties in a many-body framework. We use small-core effective potentials combined with multi-reference Slater-Jastrow trial wave functions to provide accurate nodes for the fixed-node diffusion Monte Carlo method. For reference and comparison, we calculate the same properties with Hartree-Fock and with restricted Configuration Interaction methods, and carefully assess the impact of the recovered many-body correlations on the calculated quantities. For LiSr we find a highly nonlinear dipole moment curve, which may make this molecule's dipole moment tunable through vibrational state control.

id: 1301.1748
title: Quantum Robust Stability of a Small Josephson Junction in a Resonant Cavity
authors: Ian R. Petersen
comments: A version of this paper appeared in the proceedings of the 2012 IEEE Multi-conference on Systems and Control
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1748
abstract: This paper applies recent results on the robust stability of nonlinear quantum systems to the case of a Josephson junction in a resonant cavity. The Josephson junction is characterized by a Hamiltonian operator which contains a non-quadratic term involving a cosine function. This leads to a sector bounded nonlinearity which enables the previously developed theory to be applied to this system in order to analyze its stability.

id: 1301.1764
title: Bell states generation on a III-V semiconductor chip at room temperature
authors: Adeline Orieux, Andreas Eckstein, Aristide Lema?tre, Pascal Filloux, Ivan Favero, Giuseppe Leo, Thomas Coudreau, Arne Keller, P¨¦rola Milman, Sara Ducci
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters (2013) 160502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1764
abstract: We demonstrate the generation of polarization-entangled photon pairs at room temperature and telecom wavelength in a AlGaAs semiconductor waveguide. The source is based on spontaneous parametric down conversion with a counterpropagating phase-matching scheme. The quality of the two-photon state is assessed by the reconstruction of the density matrix giving a raw fidelity to a Bell state of 0.83; a theoretical model, taking into account the experimental parameters, provides ways to understand and control the amount of entanglement. Its compatibility with electrical injection, together with the high versatility of the generated two-photon state, make this source an attractive candidate for completely integrated quantum photonics devices.

id: 1301.1774
title: Quantum-state transfer via resonant tunnelling through local field induced barriers
authors: S. Lorenzo, T. J. G. Apollaro, A. Sindona, F. Plastina
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042313 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1774
abstract: Efficient quantum-state transfer is achieved in a uniformly coupled spin-1/2 chain, with open boundaries, by application of local magnetic fields on the second and last-but-one spins, respectively. These effective \textit{barriers} induce appearance of two eigenstates, bi-localized at the edges of the chain, which allow a high quality transfer also at relatively long distances. The same mechanism may be used to send an entire e-bit (e.g., an entangled qubit pair) from one to the other end of the chain.

id: 1301.1801
title: Open Quantum Systems and Quantum Algorithms
authors: Stefano Bonzio, Paola Verrucchi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1801
abstract: The model of open quantum systems is adopted to describe the non-local dynamical behaviour of qubits processed by entangling gates. The analysis gets to the conclusion that a distinction between evaluation steps and task-oriented computing steps is justified only within classical computation. In fact, the use of entangling gates permits to reduce two steps (evaluation and calculation) to a single computational one, and this determines an effective computational speed-up. The application of the open quantum systems model suggests that the reduction to one-computational step is strongly related to the existence of Universal Dynamical Maps describing the evolution of component systems of two-qubits gates. As the description in terms of Universal Dynamical Map is possible only in the presence of a separable initial state, it turns out that the internal reduced dynamics with respect to entangling gates is neither unitary nor Markovian. The fact imposes a holistic vision on the structure of the algorithm, where the entangling gates shall remain indivisible unities, or black boxes, in order to preserve computational speed as well as reversibility. This fact suggests to adopt a perspective on computation which is completely non-classical: the whole algorithm turns out not to be the sequence of its temporal parts.

id: 1301.1809
title: Quantum measurement corrections to CIDNP in photosynthetic reaction centers
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 075017 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1809
abstract: Chemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization is a signature of spin order appearing in many photosynthetic reaction centers. Such polarization, significantly enhanced above thermal equilibrium, is known to result from the nuclear spin sorting inherent in the radical pair mechanism underlying long-lived charge-separated states in photosynthetic reaction centers. We will here show that the recently understood fundamental quantum dynamics of radical-ion-pair reactions open up a new and completely unexpected venue towards obtaining CIDNP signals. The fundamental decoherence mechanism inherent in the recombination process of radical pairs is shown to produce nuclear spin polarizations on the order of $10^4$ times or more higher than the thermal equilibrium value at earth's magnetic field relevant to natural photosynthesis. This opens up the possibility of a fundamentally new exploration of the biological significance of high nuclear polarizations in photosynthesis.

id: 1301.1834
title: Monogamy of quantum correlations reveals frustration in a quantum Ising spin system: Experimental demonstration
authors: K. Rama Koteswara Rao, Hemant Katiyar, T. S. Mahesh, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Anil Kumar
comments: Title in the published version is "Multipartite quantum correlations reveal frustration in a quantum Ising spin system", 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022312 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1834
abstract: We report a nuclear magnetic resonance experiment, which simulates the quantum transverse Ising spin system in a triangular configuration and further show that the monogamy of quantum correlations can be used to distinguish between the frustrated and non-frustrated regimes in the ground state of this system. Adiabatic state preparation methods are used to prepare the ground states of the spin system. We employ two different multipartite quantum correlation measures to analyze the experimental ground state of the system in both the frustrated and non-frustrated regimes. In particular, we use multipartite quantum correlation measures generated by monogamy considerations of negativity, a bipartite entanglement measure, and that of quantum discord, an information-theoretic quantum correlation measure. As expected from theoretical predictions, the experimental data confirm that the non-frustrated regime shows higher multipartite quantum correlations compared to the frustrated one.

id: 1301.1850
title: Two- and three-body calculations within the dominantly orbital state method
authors: Claude Semay, Fabien Buisseret
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377 (2013) 1826
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1850
abstract: The dominantly orbital state method allows a semiclassical description of quantum systems. At the origin, it was developed for two-body relativistic systems. Here, the method is extended to treat two-body Hamiltonians and systems with three identical particles, in $D\ge 2$ dimensions, with arbitrary kinetic energy and potential. This method is very easy to implement and can be used in a large variety of fields. Results are expected to be reliable for large values of the orbital angular momentum and small radial excitations, but information about the whole spectrum can also be obtained in some very specific cases.

id: 1301.1858
title: Proposal for a coherent quantum memory for propagating microwave photons
authors: M. Afzelius, N. Sangouard, G. Johansson, M. U. Staudt, C. M. Wilson
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 065008 15 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1858
abstract: We describe a multi-mode quantum memory for propagating microwave photons that combines a solid-state spin ensemble resonantly coupled to a frequency tunable single-mode microwave cavity. We first show that high efficiency mapping of the quantum state transported by a free photon to the spin ensemble is possible both for strong and weak coupling between the cavity mode and the spin ensemble. We also show that even in the weak coupling limit unit efficiency and faithful retrieval can be obtained through time reversal inhomogeneous dephasing based on spin echo techniques. This is possible provided that the cavity containing the spin ensemble and the transmission line are impedance matched. We finally discuss the prospects for an experimental implementation using a rare-earth doped crystal coupled to a superconducting resonator.

id: 1301.1871
title: Self-assembling hybrid diamond-biological quantum devices
authors: Andreas Albrecht, Guy Koplovitz, Alex Retzker, Fedor Jelezko, Shira Yochelis, Danny Porath, Yuval Nevo, Oded Shoseyov, Yossi Paltiel, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures and Supplement (28 pages, 13 figures)
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 093002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1871
abstract: The realization of scalable arrangements of nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers in diamond remains a key challenge on the way towards efficient quantum information processing, quantum simulation and quantum sensing applications. Although technologies based on implanting NV-center in bulk diamond crystals or hybrid device approaches have been developed, they are limited in the achievable spatial resolution and by the intricate technological complexities involved in achieving scalability. We propose and demonstrate a novel approach for creating an arrangement of NV-centers, based on the self-assembling capabilities of biological systems and its beneficial nanometer spatial resolution. Here, a self-assembled protein structure serves as a structural scaffold for surface functionalized nanodiamonds, in this way allowing for the controlled creation of NV-structures on the nanoscale and providing a new avenue towards bridging the bio-nano interface. One-, two- as well as three-dimensional structures are within the scope of biological structural assembling techniques. We realized experimentally the formation of regular structures by interconnecting nanodiamonds using biological protein scaffolds. Based on the achievable NV-center distances of 11nm, we evaluate the expected dipolar coupling interaction with neighboring NV-center as well as the expected decoherence time. Moreover, by exploiting these couplings, we provide a detailed theoretical analysis on the viability of multiqubit quantum operations, suggest the possibility of individual addressing based on the random distribution of the NV intrinsic symmetry axes and address the challenges posed by decoherence and imperfect couplings. We then demonstrate in the last part that our scheme allows for the high-fidelity creation of entanglement, cluster states and quantum simulation applications.

id: 1301.1949
title: Hamiltonian dynamics of a quantum of space: hidden symmetries and spectrum of the volume operator, and discrete orthogonal polynomials
authors: Vincenzo Aquilanti, Dimitri Marinelli, Annalisa Marzuoli
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 175303 (9pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1949
abstract: The action of the quantum mechanical volume operator, introduced in connection with a symmetric representation of the three-body problem and recently recognized to play a fundamental role in discretized quantum gravity models, can be given as a second order difference equation which, by a complex phase change, we turn into a discrete Schr\"odinger-like equation. The introduction of discrete potential-like functions reveals the surprising crucial role here of hidden symmetries, first discovered by Regge for the quantum mechanical 6j symbols; insight is provided into the underlying geometric features. The spectrum and wavefunctions of the volume operator are discussed from the viewpoint of the Hamiltonian evolution of an elementary "quantum of space", and a transparent asymptotic picture emerges of the semiclassical and classical regimes. The definition of coordinates adapted to Regge symmetry is exploited for the construction of a novel set of discrete orthogonal polynomials, characterizing the oscillatory components of torsion-like modes.

id: 1301.1961
title: Comment on "Witnessed entanglement and the geometric measure of quantum discord"
authors: Swapan Rana, Preeti Parashar
comments: 1+ page, Accepted in PRA
journal: Phy. Rev. A 87, 016301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1961
abstract: In a recent article [Phys. Rev. A 86, 024302 (2012)], the authors have derived some hierarchy relations between geometric discord and entanglement (measured by negativity and its square). We point out that these results are incorrect and give analytic counterexamples. We also discuss briefly the reason for such violations.

id: 1301.1965
title: Hanbury Brown - Twiss type correlations with surface plasmon light
authors: Sandor Varro, Norbert Kroo, Daniel Oszetzky, Attila Nagy, Aladar Czitrovszky
comments: 24 pages and 5 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 58, 2049-2057 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1965
abstract: Intensity-intensity correlations are studied for light signals stemming from the spontaneous decay of surface plasmon oscillations, generated in the Kretschmann geometry. Non-classical photon statistics and the the transition from antibunching to bunching of the electron counts have been found experimentally and analysed on a new theoretical basis.

id: 1301.1970
title: Counterexamples to the Theory of Thermodynamics With Feedback Proposed By Sagawa and Ueda
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 4 pages (2 files: 1 .tex, 1 .sty)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1970
abstract: We give some counterexamples to the theory of thermodynamics with feedback that has been proposed by Sagawa and Ueda. Our counterexamples are evidence that their theory, in its present form, is flawed.

id: 1301.1994
title: Simulating Entanglement in Classical Computing
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1994
abstract: This note shows how quantum entanglement may be simulated in classical computing. The simulated entanglement protocol is implemented using oblivious transfer in the simplest case and other many-to-one mappings in more general cases. For the case where the mapping is of order k, we prove a theorem that gives us the function of the entangled state. A useful generalization beyond this research will be the implementation of quantum states with arbitrary probability amplitude functions.

id: 1301.1995
title: Quantum Refrigerator
authors: Michael Ben-Or, Daniel Gottesman, Avinatan Hassidim
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1995
abstract: We consider fault-tolerant quantum computation in the context where there are no fresh ancilla qubits available during the computation, and where the noise is due to a general quantum channel. We show that there are three classes of noisy channels: In the first, typified by the depolarizing channel, computation is only possible for a logarithmic time. In the second class, of which the dephasing channel is an example, computation is possible for polynomial time. The amplitude damping channel is an example of the third class, and for this class of channels, it is possible to compute for an exponential time in the number of qubits available.

id: 1301.1997
title: The digital randomness of black-body radiation
authors: Sandor Varro
comments: 8 pages. 21th International Laser Physics Workshop (LPHYS'12), July 23-27, 2012, Calgary, Canada, Seminar 7, P7.7
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 414 (2013) 012041
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1997
abstract: The statistical properties of the fractional part of the random energy of a spectral component of black-body radiation have been analysed in the frame of classical Kolmogorovian probability theory. Besides the integer part of the energy (which satisfies the well-known Planck-Bose distribution), the realizations of its fractional part (related to 'round-off errors') has been represented by binary sequences, like z = 0.001011000010.... It has been shown that the binary variables realized by the 0-s and 1-s at different positions are independent. From the condition of independence the original distribution of the fractional part z can be recovered. If these binary variables have the same distribution, then they describe a temperature-independent random energy, whose expectation value is just the zero-point energy. Thus, the zero-point fluctuation can be considered as a physical representative of an ideal random number generator.

id: 1301.2013
title: A real-time design based on FPGA for Expeditious Error Reconciliation in QKD system
authors: Ke Cui, Jian Wang, Hong-fei Zhang, Chun-li Luo, Ge Jin, Teng-yun Chen
comments: 7 pages,10 figures
journal: IEEE transactions on Information Forensics and Security, Vol. 8, Issue 1, pp. 184-190 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2013
abstract: For high-speed quantum key distribution systems, error reconciliation is often the bottleneck affecting system performance. By exchanging common information through a public channel, the identical key can be generated on both communicating sides. However, the necessity to eliminate disclosed bits for security reasons lowers the final key rate. To improve this key rate, the amount of disclosed bits should be minimized. In addition, decreasing the time spent on error reconciliation also improves the key rate. In this paper we introduce a practical method for expeditious error reconciliation implemented in a Field Programmable Gate Array for a discrete variable quantum key distribution system, and illustrate the superiority of this method to other similar algorithms running on a PC. Experimental results demonstrate the rapidity of the proposed protocol.

id: 1301.2018
title: Optimal Information Transfer and Real-Vector-Space Quantum Theory
authors: William K. Wootters
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2018
abstract: Consider a photon that has just emerged from a linear polarizing filter. If the photon is then subjected to an orthogonal polarization measurement-e.g., horizontal vs vertical-the photon's preparation cannot be fully expressed in the outcome: a binary outcome cannot reveal the value of a continuous variable. However, a stream of identically prepared photons can do much better. To quantify this effect, one can compute the mutual information between the angle of polarization and the observed frequencies of occurrence of "horizontal" and "vertical." Remarkably, one finds that the quantum-mechanical rule for computing probabilities--Born's rule--maximizes this mutual information relative to other conceivable probability rules. However, the maximization is achieved only because linear polarization can be modeled with a real state space; the argument fails when one considers the full set of complex states. This result generalizes to higher dimensional Hilbert spaces: in every case, one finds that information is transferred optimally from preparation to measurement in the real-vector-space theory but not in the complex theory. Attempts to modify the statement of the problem so as to see a similar optimization in the standard complex theory are not successful (with one limited exception). So it seems that this optimization should be regarded as a special feature of real-vector-space quantum theory.

id: 1301.2084
title: Single photon-added coherent states: estimation of parameters and fidelity of the optical homodyne detection
authors: S. N. Filippov, V. I. Man'ko, A. S. Coelho, A. Zavatta, M. Bellini
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, based on the contribution to the 19th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (2-6 July 2012, Sinaia, Romania)
journal: Physica Scripta T153, 014025 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2084
abstract: Travelling modes of single-photon-added coherent states (SPACS) are characterized via optical homodyne tomography. Given a set of experimentally measured quadrature distributions, we estimate parameters of the state and also extract information about the detector efficiency. The method used is a minimal distance estimation between theoretical and experimental quantities, which additionally allows to evaluate the precision of estimated parameters. Given experimental data, we also estimate the lower and upper bounds on fidelity. The results are believed to encourage preciser engineering and detection of SPACS.

id: 1301.2090
title: An extremely low-noise heralded single-photon source: a breakthrough for quantum technologies
authors: G. Brida, I. P. Degiovanni, M. Genovese, F. Piacentini, P. Traina, A. Della Frera, A. Tosi, A. Bahgat Shehata, C. Scarcella, A. Gulinatti, M. Ghioni, S. V. Polyakov, A. Migdall, A. Giudice
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 101, 221112 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2090
abstract: Low noise single-photon sources are a critical element for quantum technologies. We present a heralded single-photon source with an extremely low level of residual background photons, by implementing low-jitter detectors and electronics and a fast custom-made pulse generator controlling an optical shutter (a LiNbO3 waveguide optical switch) on the output of the source. This source has a second-order autocorrelation g^{(2)}(0)=0.005(7), and an "Output Noise Factor" (defined as the ratio of the number of noise photons to total photons at the source output channel) of 0.25(1)%. These are the best performance characteristics reported to date.

id: 1301.2123
title: Optimal quantum tomography of permutationally invariant qubits
authors: A. B. Klimov, G. Bjork, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 6 pages. To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2123
abstract: Mutually unbiased bases determine an optimal set of measurements to extract complete information about the quantum state of a system. However, quite often a priori information about the state exist, making some of the measurement bases superfluous. This is, for example, the case when multiqubit states belong to the permutationally invariant subspace. In this paper we derive the minimal sets of mutually unbiased bases needed to tomographically reconstruct such states.

id: 1301.2144
title: Noise effects and tomography of remote entangled spins in quantum dots
authors: Asier Pineiro-Orioli, Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Terry Rudolph
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 88 035315 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2144
abstract: We investigate how decoherence affects the entanglement established between two quantum dots in micro cavities, and propose a tomographic scheme able to measure the entangled state. The scheme we consider establishes the entanglement via the exchange and measurement of a photon. Making the realistic assumption of noise dominated by pure-dephasing processes, we find that the photon must be exchanged and measured on timescales shorter than the quantum dots' characteristic dephasing time for appreciable levels of entanglement to be achieved. The tomographic scheme is able to reconstruct the full density matrix of the quantum dots, and requires only single spin rotations and the injection of an additional photon. Remarkably, we find that the additional photon need not be exchanged and measured on a timescale shorter than the dephasing time for accurate tomography, and also allows many to be used in order to increase the measurement signal.

id: 1301.2152
title: Probing untouchable environment as a resource for quantum computing
authors: Masaki Owari, Koji Maruyama, Takeji Takui, Go Kato
comments: 21 pages in total
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012343 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2152
abstract: When manipulating a quantum system $S$, its surrounding system, or \textit{environment}, $E$ induces unwanted effects. It is mainly due to its vastness and the lack of knowledge about the Hamiltonian $H_{SE}$ that governs the dynamics inside $E$ and the interaction with $S$. The detail of $H_{SE}$ is usually extremely hard to identify, since $E$ can hardly be measured or controlled directly. Nevertheless, here we show that it is possible to probe and control a part of, if not all, the dynamics involving $E$, within the timescale in which its effective dimension can be seen finite. That is, we may be able to let a noisy environment work in our favor as a part of quantum computer.

id: 1301.2170
title: Simulating all non-signalling correlations via classical or quantum theory with negative probabilities
authors: Sabri W. Al-Safi, Anthony J. Short
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 170403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2170
abstract: Many-party correlations between measurement outcomes in general probabilistic theories are given by conditional probability distributions obeying the non-signalling condition. We show that any such distribution can be obtained from classical or quantum theory, by relaxing positivity constraints on either the mixed state shared by the parties, or the local functions which generate measurement outcomes. Our results apply to generic non-signalling correlations, but in particular they yield two distinct quasi-classical models for quantum correlations.

id: 1301.2201
title: Quantum computer with atomic logical qubits encoded on macroscopic three-level systems in common quantum electrodynamic cavity
authors: F. M. Ablayev, S. N. Andrianov, S. A. Moiseev, A. V. Vasiliev
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2201
abstract: We propose an effective realization of the universal set of elementary quantum gates in solid state quantum computer based on macroscopic (or mesoscopic) resonance systems - multi-atomic coherent ensembles, squids or quantum dots in quantum electrodynamic cavity. We exploit an encoding of logical qubits by the pairs of the macroscopic two- or three-level atoms that is working in a Hilbert subspace of all states inherent to these atomic systems. In this subspace, logical single qubit gates are realized by the controlled reversible transfer of single atomic excitation in the pair via the exchange of virtual photons and by the frequency shift of one of the atomic ensembles in a pair. In the case of two-level systems, the logical two - qubit gates are performed by the controlling of Lamb shift magnitude in one atomic ensemble, allowing/blocking the excitation transfer in a pair, respectively, that is controlled by the third atomic system of another pair. When using three-level systems, we describe the NOT-gate in the atomic pair controlled by the transfer of working atomic excitation to the additional third level caused by direct impact of the control pair excitation. Finally, we discuss advantages of the proposed physical system for accelerated computation of some useful quantum gates.

id: 1301.2246
title: Precise evaluation of thermal response functions by optimized density matrix renormalization group schemes
authors: Thomas Barthel
comments: 19 pages, 11 figures; see also arXiv:1212.3570; minor improvements and clarifications; added references; published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 073010 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2246
abstract: This paper provides a study and discussion of earlier as well as novel more efficient schemes for the precise evaluation of finite-temperature response functions of strongly correlated quantum systems in the framework of the time-dependent density matrix renormalization group (tDMRG). The computational costs and bond dimensions as functions of time and temperature are examined for the example of the spin-1/2 XXZ Heisenberg chain in the critical XY phase and the gapped N\'eel phase. The matrix product state purifications occurring in the algorithms are in one-to-one relation with corresponding matrix product operators. This notational simplification elucidates implications of quasi-locality on the computational costs. Based on the observation that there is considerable freedom in designing efficient tDMRG schemes for the calculation of dynamical correlators at finite temperatures, a new class of optimizable schemes, as recently suggested in arXiv:1212.3570, is explained and analyzed numerically. A specific novel near-optimal scheme that requires no additional optimization reaches maximum times that are typically increased by a factor of two, when compared against earlier approaches. These increased reachable times make many more physical applications accessible. For each of the described tDMRG schemes, one can devise a corresponding transfer matrix renormalization group (TMRG) variant.

id: 1301.2326
title: Feynman's clock, a new variational principle, and parallel-in-time quantum dynamics
authors: Jarrod R. McClean, John A. Parkhill, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2326
abstract: We introduce a new discrete-time variational principle inspired by the quantum clock originally proposed by Feynman, and use it to write down quantum evolution as a ground state eigenvalue problem. The construction allows one to apply ground state quantum many-body theory to quantum dynamics, extending the reach of many highly developed tools from this fertile research area. Moreover this formalism naturally leads to an algorithm to parallelize quantum simulation over time. We draw an explicit connection between previously known time-dependent variational principles and the new time embedded variational principle presented. Sample calculations are presented applying the idea to a Hydrogen molecule and the spin degrees of freedom of a model inorganic compound demonstrating the parallel speedup of our method as well as its flexibility in applying ground-state methodologies. Finally, we take advantage of the unique perspective of the new variational principle to examine the error of basis approximations in quantum dynamics.

id: 1301.2340
title: Preconditioned quantum linear system algorithm
authors: B. D. Clader, B. C. Jacobs, C. R. Sprouse
comments: 5 pages; Substantial revisions, including addition of preconditioner
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 250504 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2340
abstract: We describe a quantum algorithm that generalizes the quantum linear system algorithm [Harrow et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 150502 (2009)] to arbitrary problem specifications. We develop a state preparation routine that can initialize generic states, show how simple ancilla measurements can be used to calculate many quantities of interest, and integrate a quantum-compatible preconditioner that greatly expands the number of problems that can achieve exponential speedup over classical linear systems solvers. To demonstrate the algorithm's applicability, we show how it can be used to compute the electromagnetic scattering cross section of an arbitrary target exponentially faster than the best classical algorithm.

id: 1301.2372
title: Separability problem for multipartite states of rank at most four
authors: Lin Chen, Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 275304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2372
abstract: One of the most important problems in quantum information is the separability problem, which asks whether a given quantum state is separable. We investigate multipartite states of rank at most four which are PPT (i.e., all their partial transposes are positive semidefinite). We show that any PPT state of rank two or three is separable and has length at most four. For separable states of rank four, we show that they have length at most six. It is six only for some qubit-qutrit or multiqubit states. It turns out that any PPT entangled state of rank four is necessarily supported on a 3x3 or a 2x2x2 subsystem. We obtain a very simple criterion for the separability problem of the PPT states of rank at most four: such a state is entangled if and only if its range contains no product vectors. This criterion can be easily applied since a four-dimensional subspace in the 3x3 or 2x2x2 system contains a product vector if and only if its Pluecker coordinates satisfy a homogeneous polynomial equation (the Chow form of the corresponding Segre variety). We have computed an explicit determinantal expression for the Chow form in the former case, while such expression was already known in the latter case.

id: 1301.2383
title: A real-time QKD system based on FPGA
authors: Hong-fei Zhang, Jian Wang, Ke Cui, Chun-li Luo, Sheng-zhao Lin, Lei Zhou, Hao Liang, Teng-yun Chen, Kai Chen, Jian-wei Pan
comments: 7 pages, 14 figures
journal: IEEE/OSA Journal of Lightwave Technology, Vol. 30, Issue 20, pp. 3226-3234 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2383
abstract: A real-time Quantum Key Distribution System is developed in this paper. In the system, based on the feature of Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA), secure key extraction control and algorithm have been optimally designed to perform sifting, error correction and privacy amplification altogether in real-time. In the QKD experiment information synchronization mechanism and high-speed classic data channel are designed to ensure the steady operation of the system. Decoy state and synchronous laser light source are used in the system, while the length of optical fiber between Alice and Bob is 20 km. With photons repetition frequency of 20 MHz, the final key rate could reach 17 kbps. Smooth and robust operation is verified with 6-hour continuous test and associated with encrypted voice communication test.

id: 1301.2387
title: PT phase transition in higher-dimensional quantum systems
authors: Bhabani Prasad Mandal, Brijesh Kumar Mourya, Rajesh Kumar Yadav
comments: 10 pages, Latex, No figs
journal: Physics Letters A 377, 1043 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2387
abstract: We consider a 2d anisotropic SHO with {\bf ixy} interaction and a 3d SHO in an imaginary magnetic field with $\vec\mu_l$.$\vec B$ interaction to study the $PT$ phase transition analytically in higher dimension.Unbroken $PT$ symmetry in the first case is complementary to the rotational symmetry of the original Hermitian system .$PT$ phase transition ceases to occur the moment the 2d oscillator becomes isotropic.Transverse magnetic field in the other system introduces the anisotropy in the system and the system undergoes PT phase transition depending on the strength of the magnetic field and frequency of the oscillator.

id: 1301.2416
title: Incoherent excitation of few-level multiatom ensembles
authors: Baranidharan Mohanand, Mihai A. Macovei
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 035503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2416
abstract: We investigate the collective interaction of a multi-atom three-level ladder system with an environmental incoherent reservoir. The exact solution of the master equation that describes such a system of atoms emitting distinguishable or indistinguishable photons on interaction with an incoherent reservoir is obtained. The quantum decay interference effects have no influences over steady-state distribution of population among the energy levels. However, the photon statistics of the collectively emitted photons are different in this case. In particular, the normalized second-order photon correlation function shows a minimum in its value for the photons generated on lower atomic transition in a system with orthogonal dipoles. The minimum is due to the steady-state amplified spontaneous emission by the incoherent applied fields.

id: 1301.2453
title: Adaptive Resummation of Markovian Quantum Dynamics
authors: Felix Lucas, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures - minor changes, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 240401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2453
abstract: We introduce a method for obtaining analytic approximations to the evolution of Markovian open quantum systems. It is based on resumming a generalized Dyson series in a way that ensures optimal convergence even in the absence of a small parameter. The power of this approach is demonstrated by two benchmark examples: the spatial detection of a free particle and the Landau-Zener problem in the presence of dephasing. The derived approximations are asymptotically exact and exhibit errors on the per mil level over the entire parameter range.

id: 1301.2455
title: Weak randomness in device independent quantum key distribution and the advantage of using high dimensional entanglement
authors: Marcus Huber, Marcin Pawlowski
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032309 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2455
abstract: We show that in device independent quantum key distribution protocols the privacy of randomness is of crucial importance. For sublinear test sample sizes even the slightest guessing probability by an eavesdropper will completely compromise security. We show that a combined attack exploiting test sample and measurement choices compromises the security even with a linear size test sample and otherwise device independent security considerations. We explicitly derive the sample size needed to retrieve security as a function of the randomness quality. We demonstrate that exploiting features of genuinely higher dimensional systems one can reduce this weakness and provide device independent security more robust against weak randomness sources.

id: 1301.2484
title: Three-body Casimir-Polder interactions
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Elom Abalo, Prachi Parashar, K. V. Shajesh
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, for the proceedings of the conference Mathematical Structures in Quantum Systems, Benasque, Spain, July 2012, to be published in Nuovo Cimento
journal: Nuovo Cimento C 36, 192 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2484
abstract: As part of our program to develop the description of three-body effects in quantum vacuum phenomena, we study the three-body interaction of two anisotropically polarizable atoms with a perfect electrically conducting plate, a generalization of earlier work. Three- and four-scattering effects are important, and lead to nonmonotonic behavior.

id: 1301.2515
title: Quantum information and randomness
authors: Johannes Kofler, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: European Review, volume 18, issue 04, pp 469-480, Cambridge University Press (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2515
abstract: This is an article for a special edition of "European Review" with a focus on the topic "Causality".

id: 1301.2585
title: Non-Markovianity as a Resource for Quantum Technologies
authors: Bogna Bylicka, Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2585
abstract: Quantum technologies rely on the ability to coherently manipulate, process and transfer information, encoded in quantum states, along quantum channels. Decoherence induced by the environment introduces errors, thus setting limits on the efficiency of any quantum-enhanced protocol or device. A fundamental bound on the ability of a noisy quantum channel to transmit quantum (classical) information is given by its quantum (classical) capacity. Generally, the longer is a quantum channel the more are the introduced errors, and hence the worse is its capacity. In this Letter we show that for non-Markovian quantum channels this is not always true: surprisingly the capacity of a longer channel can be greater than the one of a shorter channel. We introduce a general theoretical framework linking non-Markovianity to the capacities of quantum channels, and demonstrate in full generality how harnessing non-Markovianity may improve the efficiency of quantum information processing and communication.

id: 1301.2590
title: Dipolar Radicals in Crossed Electric and Magnetic Fields
authors: John L. Bohn, Goulven Qu¨¦m¨¦ner
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2590
abstract: Paramagnetic, dipolar Hund's case-a radicals are considered in the presence of arbitrary, non-collinear combinations of electric and magnetic fields. The field-dependent part of the Hamiltonian is found to be exactly diagonalizable, and described by quantum numbers given by the projection of the molecule's total angular momentum along a space-fixed axis that is determined by both the fields and the electric and magnetic dipole moments of the molecule. In cases of strong fields, this procedure identifies a set of quantum numbers for the molecule in crossed fields. We dub this set a "Hund's case-X" basis.

id: 1301.2632
title: Approximation, Proof Systems, and Correlations in a Quantum World
authors: Sevag Gharibian
comments: PhD Thesis, 240 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2632
abstract: This thesis studies three topics in quantum computation and information: The approximability of quantum problems, quantum proof systems, and non-classical correlations in quantum systems. In the first area, we demonstrate a polynomial-time (classical) approximation algorithm for dense instances of the canonical QMA-complete quantum constraint satisfaction problem, the local Hamiltonian problem. In the opposite direction, we next introduce a quantum generalization of the polynomial-time hierarchy, and define problems which we prove are not only complete for the second level of this hierarchy, but are in fact hard to approximate. In the second area, we study variants of the interesting and stubbornly open question of whether a quantum proof system with multiple unentangled quantum provers is equal in expressive power to a proof system with a single quantum prover. Our results concern classes such as BellQMA(poly), and include a novel proof of perfect parallel repetition for SepQMA(m) based on cone programming duality. In the third area, we study non-classical quantum correlations beyond entanglement, often dubbed "non-classicality". Among our results are two novel schemes for quantifying non-classicality: The first proposes the new paradigm of exploiting local unitary operations to study non-classical correlations, and the second introduces a protocol through which non-classical correlations in a starting system can be "activated" into distillable entanglement with an ancilla system. An introduction to all required linear algebra and quantum mechanics is included.

id: 1301.2695
title: Onthological models predictively inequivalent to quantum theory
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Raffaele Romano
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 170404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2695
abstract: Recently, it has been argued that no extension of quantum theory can have improved predictive power under a strong assumption of free choice of the experimental settings and validity of quantum mechanics. Here, under a different free choice assumption, we describe a model which violates this statement for almost all states of a bipartite two-level system, in a possibly experimentally testable way. From consistency with quantum mechanics and the nonsignaling principle, we derive a bound on the local averages for the family of deterministic ontological theories that our model belongs to.

id: 1301.2726
title: Quantum control of a model qubit based on a multi-layered quantum dot
authors: Alejandro Ferr¨®n, Pablo Serra, Omar Osenda
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 113, 134304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2726
abstract: In this work we present a model qubit whose basis states are eigenstates of a multi-layered quantum dot. We show that the proper design of the quantum dot results in qubit states that have excellent dynamical properties when a time-dependent driving is applied to it. In particular, it is shown that a simple sinusoidal driving is sufficient to obtain good quality Rabi oscillations between the qubit states. Moreover, the switching between states can be performed with very low leakage, even under off-resonance conditions. In this sense, the quantum control of the qubit is robust under some perturbations and achieved with simple means.

id: 1301.2749
title: Beating the One-half Limit of Ancilla-free Linear Optics Bell Measurements
authors: Hussain A. Zaidi, Peter van Loock
comments: 4+5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 260501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2749
abstract: We show that optically encoded two-qubit Bell states can be unambiguously discriminated with a success probability of more than 50% in both single-rail and dual-rail encodings by using active linear-optical resources that include Gaussian squeezing operations. These results are in contrast to the well-known upper bound of 50% for unambiguous discrimination of dual-rail Bell states using passive, static linear optics and arbitrarily many vacuum modes. We present experimentally feasible schemes that improve the success probability to 64.3% in dual-rail and to 62.5% in single-rail for a uniform random distribution of Bell states. Conceptually, this demonstrates that neither interactions that induce nonlinear mode transformations (such as Kerr interactions) nor auxiliary entangled photons are required to go beyond the one-half limit. We discuss the optimality of our single-rail scheme, and talk about an application of our dual-rail scheme in quantum communication.

id: 1301.2752
title: Quantitative verification of the Kibble-Zurek mechanism in quantum non-equilibrium dynamics
authors: Xiao-Ye Xu, Yong-Jian Han, Kai Sun, Jin-Shi Xu, Jian-Shun Tang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 035701 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2752
abstract: The Kibble-Zurek mechanism (KZM) captures the key physics in the non-equilibrium dynamics of second-order phase transitions, and accurately predict the density of the topological defects formed in this process. However, despite much effort, the veracity of the central prediction of KZM, i.e., the scaling of the density production and the transit rate, is still an open question. Here, we performed an experiment, based on a nine-stage optical interferometer with an overall fidelity up to 0.975$\pm$0.008, that directly supports the central prediction of KZM in quantum non-equilibrium dynamics. In addition, our work has significantly upgraded the number of stages of the optical interferometer to nine with a high fidelity, this technique can also help to push forward the linear optical quantum simulation and computation.

id: 1301.2753
title: Quantum Simulation of Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya Interaction
authors: V. S. Manu, Anil Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2753
abstract: Quantum simulation of a Hamiltonian H requires unitary operator decomposition (UOD) of its evolution operator, ($U=exp(-i H t)$) in terms of experimentally preferable unitaries. Here, using Genetic Algorithm optimization, we numerically evaluate the most generic UOD for the Hamiltonian, DM interaction in the presence of Heisenberg XY interaction, $H_{DH}$. Using these decompositions, we studied the entanglement dynamics of Bell state in the Hamiltonian $H_{DH}$ and verified the entanglement preservation procedure by Hou et al. [Annals of Physics 327, 292 (2012)].

id: 1301.2759
title: Entanglement dynamics of non-inertial observers in a correlated environment
authors: M. Ramzan
comments: 18 pages, 6 .eps figures, published online 14 January 2012 in Quantum Information Processing, Springer. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1204.1900; and text overlap with arXiv:1105.1216 by other authors
journal: Quant. Inf. Process. 12, 83 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2759
abstract: Effect of decoherence and correlated noise on the entanglement of X-type state of the Dirac fields in the non-inertial frame is investigated. A two qubit X-state is considered to be shared between the partners where Alice is in inertial frame and Rob in an accelerated frame. The concurrence is used to quantify the entanglement of the X-state system influenced by time correlated amplitude damping, depolarizing and bit flip channels. It is seen that amplitude damping and bit flip channels heavily influence the entanglement of the system as compared to the depolarizing channel. It is found possible to avoid entanglement sudden death (ESD) for all the channels under consideration for {\mu}>0.75 for any type of initial state. No ESD behaviour is seen for depolarizing channel in the presence of correlated noise for entire range of decoherence parameter p and Rob's acceleration r. It is also seen that the effect of environment is much stronger than that of acceleration of the accelerated partner. Furthermore, it is investigated that correlated noise compensates the loss of entanglement caused by the Unruh effect.

id: 1301.2765
title: Decoherence and multipartite entanglement of non-inertial observers
authors: M. Ramzan
comments: 11 pages, 3 .eps figures, Slightly updated to published version in CPL, typos corrected, updated references
journal: Chinese Physics Letters 29, 020302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2765
abstract: Decoherence effect on multipartite entanglement in non-inertial frames is investigated. GHZ state is considered to be shared between the partners with one partner in inertial frame whereas the other two in accelerated frames. One-tangle and {\pi}-tangles are used to quantify the entanglement of the multipartite system influenced by phase damping and phase flip channels. It is seen that for phase damping channel, entanglement sudden death (ESD) occurs for p>0.5 in the infinite acceleration limit. On the other hand, in case of phase flip channel, ESD behaviour happens around 50% decoherence. It is also seen that entanglement sudden birth (ESB) does occur in case of phase flip channel. Furthermore, it is seen that effect of environment on multipartite entanglement is much stronger than that of the acceleration of non-inertial frames.

id: 1301.2808
title: A quantum neural network computes its own relative phase
authors: E.C. Behrman, J.E. Steck
comments: 
journal: IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence 2013, Singapore, April 15-19, 2013. (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2808
abstract: Complete characterization of the state of a quantum system made up of subsystems requires determination of relative phase, because of interference effects between the subsystems. For a system of qubits used as a quantum computer this is especially vital, because the entanglement, which is the basis for the quantum advantage in computing, depends intricately on phase. We present here a first step towards that determination, in which we use a two-qubit quantum system as a quantum neural network, which is trained to compute and output its own relative phase.

id: 1301.2843
title: Coherence and decoherence in photon spin-qubit entanglement
authors: Daniel Boyanovsky
comments: matches published version. Clarification and updated references,same results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 033815 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2843
abstract: We study the dynamics of spontaneous generation of coherence and photon spin-qubit entanglement or "flying qubits" in a $\Lambda$ system with non-degenerate lower levels. The cases of entanglement in frequency only and frequency and polarization are compared and the reduced density matrix and entanglement entropy are analyzed. We explore in detail how which-path information manifest when the energy difference between the qubit states is larger than the linewidth of the excited state suppresses coherence. A framework is provided to describe the complete dynamics of spontaneous generation of coherence and (ideal) photodetection obtaining the post measurement qubit density matrix. A simple model of photodetection with a quantum eraser to suppress which-path information in the detection measurement is implemented. It is found that such quantum eraser purifies the post measurement qubit density matrix establishing contact with recent experiments.

id: 1301.2844
title: The Quantum Mechanical Arrows of Time
authors: James B. Hartle
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, revtex4, typos corrected
journal: Fundamental Aspects Quantum Theory, ed by D. Struppa and J. Tollaksen, (Springer, Milan, 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2844
abstract: The familiar textbook quantum mechanics of laboratory measurements incorporates a quantum mechanical arrow of time --- the direction in time in which state vector reduction operates. This arrow is usually assumed to coincide with the direction of the thermodynamic arrow of the quasiclassical realm of everyday experience. But in the more general context of cosmology we seek an explanation of all observed arrows, and the relations between them, in terms of the conditions that specify our particular universe. This paper investigates quantum mechanical and thermodynamic arrows in a time-neutral formulation of quantum mechanics for a number of model cosmologies in fixed background spacetimes. We find that a general universe may not have well defined arrows of either kind. When arrows are emergent they need not point in the same direction over the whole of spacetime. Rather they may be local, pointing in different directions in different spacetime regions. Local arrows can therefore be consistent with global time symmetry.

id: 1301.2849
title: Impact of anisotropy on the noncritical squeezing properties of two-transverse-mode optical parametric oscillators
authors: Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2849
abstract: In a series of articles we studied the quantum properties of a degenerate optical parametric oscillator tuned to the first family of transverse modes at the subharmonic. We found that, for a cavity having rotational symmetry respect to the optical axis, a TEM$_{10}$ mode with an arbitrary orientation in the transverse plane is emitted above threshold. We proved then that quantum noise induces a random rotation of this bright TEM$_{10}$ mode in the transverse plane, while the mode orthogonal to it, the so-called dark mode, has perfect quadrature squeezing irrespective of the distance to threshold (noncritical squeezing). This result was linked to the spontaneous rotational symmetry breaking which occurs when the bright mode is generated, and here we analyze how the squeezing of the dark mode is degraded when the cavity is not perfectly symmetric. We will show that large levels of squeezing are still attainable for reasonable values of this anisotropy, with the advantage that the orientation of the bright and dark modes is basically fixed, a very attractive situation from the experimental point of view.

id: 1301.2862
title: Spin coherent states in NMR quadrupolar system: experimental and theoretical applications
authors: R. Auccaise, E. R. deAzevedo, E. I. Duzzioni, T. J. Bonagamba, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 
journal: EPJD 67, 127,2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2862
abstract: Working with nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) in quadrupolar spin systems, in this paper we transfer the concept of atomic coherent state to the nuclear spin context, where it is referred to as pseudo-nuclear spin coherent state (pseudo-NSCS). Experimentally, we discuss the initialization of the pseudo-NSCSs and also their quantum control, implemented by polar and azimuthal rotations. Theoretically, we compute the geometric phases acquired by an initial pseudo-NSCS on undergoing three distinct cyclic evolutions: $ i) $ the free evolution of the NMR quadrupolar system and, by analogy with the evolution of the NMR quadrupolar system, that of $ii)$ single-mode and $ iii)$ two-mode Bose-Einstein Condensate like system. By means of these analogies, we derive, through spin angular momentum operators, results equivalent to those presented in the literature for orbital angular momentum operators. The pseudo-NSCS description is a starting point to introduce the spin squeezed state and quantum metrology into nuclear spin systems of liquid crystal or solid matter.

id: 1301.2886
title: On estimating the output entropy of a tensor product of the quantum phase-damping channel with an arbitrary channel
authors: Grigori Amosov
comments: 11 pages
journal: Probl. Inform. Transm. 49:3 224-231 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2886
abstract: We obtained the estimation from below for the output entropy of a tensor product of the quantum phase-damping channel with an arbitrary channel. It is shown that from this estimation immediately follows that the strong superadditivity of the output entropy holds for this channel as well as for the quantum depolarizing channel.

id: 1301.2887
title: Two Fundamental Experimental Tests of Nonclassicality with Qutrits
authors: Johan Ahrens, Elias Amselem, Adan Cabello, Mohamed Bourennane
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2887
abstract: We report two fundamental experiments on three-level quantum systems (qutrits). The first one tests the simplest task for which quantum mechanics provides an advantage with respect to classical physics. The quantum advantage is certified by the violation of Wright's inequality, the simplest classical inequality violated by quantum mechanics. In the second experiment, we obtain contextual correlations by sequentially measuring pairs of compatible observables on a qutrit, and show the violation of Klyachko et al.'s inequality, the most fundamental noncontextuality inequality violated by qutrits. Our experiment tests exactly Klyachko et al.'s inequality, uses the same measurement procedure for each observable in every context, and shows that the violation does not depend on the order of the measurements.

id: 1301.2902
title: Non-Markovian master equations from piecewise dynamics
authors: Bassano Vacchini
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 030101(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2902
abstract: We construct a large class of completely positive and trace preserving non-Markovian dynamical maps for an open quantum system. These maps arise from a piecewise dynamics characterized by a continuous time evolution interrupted by jumps, randomly distributed in time and described by a quantum channel. The state of the open system is shown to obey a closed evolution equation, given by a master equation with a memory kernel and a inhomogeneous term. The non-Markovianity of the obtained dynamics is explicitly assessed studying the behavior of the distinguishability of two different initial system's states with elapsing time.

id: 1301.2905
title: Quantum walks with memory on cycles
authors: Michael Mc Gettrick, Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Physica A, Vol. 399, pp. 163-170 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2905
abstract: We study the model of quantum walks on cycles enriched by the addition of 1-step memory. We provide a formula for the probability distribution and the time-averaged limiting probability distribution of the introduced quantum walk. Using the obtained results, we discuss the properties of the introduced model and the difference in comparison to the memoryless model.

id: 1301.2922
title: Two-qubit gates for decoherence-free qubits using a ring exchange interaction
authors: Bobby Antonio, Sougato Bose
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042306 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2922
abstract: It is known that it is possible to encode a logical qubit over many physical qubits such that it is immune to the effects of collective decoherence, and it is possible to perform universal quantum computation using these `decoherence-free' qubits. However, current proposed methods of performing gates on these encoded qubits could be difficult to implement, or could take too much time to perform. Here we investigate whether exploiting ring-exchange interactions, which may be naturally present, can simplify the implementation of these gates in any way. Using a ring exchange interaction, we have found a way to create a controlled-Z gate on the 4-qubit decoherence-free subspace and the 3-qubit decoherence-free subsystem using a sequence with 5 pulses. This could be useful in situations where simplicity is important or where ring exchange interactions are prominent. We also investigate how timing errors and magnetic field fluctuations affect the fidelity of this gate.

id: 1301.2956
title: Quantum Cloning Machines and the Applications
authors: Heng Fan, Yi-Nan Wang, Li Jing, Jie-Dong Yue, Han-Duo Shi, Yong-Liang Zhang, Liang-Zhu Mu
comments: 98 pages, 12 figures, 400+ references. Physics Reports (published online)
journal: Physics Reports 544, 241-322 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2956
abstract: No-cloning theorem is fundamental for quantum mechanics and for quantum information science that states an unknown quantum state cannot be cloned perfectly. However, we can try to clone a quantum state approximately with the optimal fidelity, or instead, we can try to clone it perfectly with the largest probability. Thus various quantum cloning machines have been designed for different quantum information protocols. Specifically, quantum cloning machines can be designed to analyze the security of quantum key distribution protocols such as BB84 protocol, six-state protocol, B92 protocol and their generalizations. Some well-known quantum cloning machines include universal quantum cloning machine, phase-covariant cloning machine, the asymmetric quantum cloning machine and the probabilistic quantum cloning machine etc. In the past years, much progress has been made in studying quantum cloning machines and their applications and implementations, both theoretically and experimentally. In this review, we will give a complete description of those important developments about quantum cloning and some related topics. On the other hand, this review is self-consistent, and in particular, we try to present some detailed formulations so that further study can be taken based on those results.

id: 1301.2969
title: Two-qubit mixed states more entangled than pure states: Comparison of the relative entropy of entanglement for a given nonlocality
authors: Bohdan Horst, Karol Bartkiewicz, Adam Miranowicz
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042108 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2969
abstract: Amplitude damping changes entangled pure states into usually less-entangled mixed states. We show, however, that even local amplitude damping of one or two qubits can result in mixed states more entangled than pure states if one compares the relative entropy of entanglement (REE) for a given degree of the Bell-Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality violation (referred to as nonlocality). By applying Monte-Carlo simulations, we find the maximally entangled mixed states and show that they are likely to be optimal by checking the Karush-Kuhn-Tucker conditions, which generalize the method of Lagrange multipliers for this nonlinear optimization problem. We show that the REE for mixed states can exceed that of pure states if the nonlocality is in the range (0,0.82) and the maximal difference between these REEs is 0.4. A former comparison [Phys. Rev. A 78, 052308 (2008)] of the REE for a given negativity showed analogous property but the corresponding maximal difference in the REEs is one-order smaller (i.e., 0.039) and the negativity range is (0,0.53) only. For appropriate comparison, we normalized the nonlocality measure to be equal to the standard entanglement measures, including the negativity, for arbitrary two-qubit pure states. We also analyze the influence of the phase-damping channel on the entanglement of the initially pure states. We show that the minimum of the REE for a given nonlocality can be achieved by this channel, contrary to the amplitude damping channel.

id: 1301.2973
title: Counting statistics of the Dicke superradiance phase transition
authors: Wassilij Kopylov, Clive Emary, Tobias Brandes
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 87, 043840 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2973
abstract: We consider a driven single mode Dicke-Hamiltonian coupled to a dissipative zero-temperature bath. We derive the cumulant generating function for emitted photons of this quantum-critical system by using a $P$-representation of the master equation in the thermodynamic limit. This cumulant generating function is shown to consist of two parts: a macroscopic component, which is Poissonian in nature with characteristic rate proportional to the order parameter of the system; and a part describing fluctuations which is non-trivial in form and divergent around the quantum phase transition.

id: 1301.2980
title: Broadband Excitation by Chirped Pulses: Application to Single Electron Spins in Diamond
authors: I. Niemeyer, J. H. Shim, J. Zhang, D. Suter, T. Taniguchi, T. Teraji, H. Abe, S. Onoda, T. Yamamoto, T. Ohshima, J. Isoya, F. Jelezko
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2980
abstract: Pulsed excitation of broad spectra requires very high field strengths if monochromatic pulses are used. If the corresponding high power is not available or not desirable, the pulses can be replaced by suitable low-power pulses that distribute the power over a wider bandwidth. As a simple case, we use microwave pulses with a linear frequency chirp. We use these pulses to excite spectra of single NV-centers in a Ramsey experiment. Compared to the conventional Ramsey experiment, our approach increases the bandwidth by at least an order of magnitude. Compared to the conventional ODMR experiment, the chirped Ramsey experiment does not suffer from power broadening and increases the resolution by at least an order of magnitude. As an additional benefit, the chirped Ramsey spectrum contains not only `allowed' single quantum transitions, but also `forbidden' zero- and double quantum transitions, which can be distinguished from the single quantum transitions by phase-shifting the readout pulse with respect to the excitation pulse or by variation of the external magnetic field strength.

id: 1301.2988
title: Entanglement generation in relativistic cavity motion
authors: David Edward Bruschi, Jorma Louko, D. Faccio
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX with jpconf. Submitted to DICE2012 proceedings
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 442 (2013) 012024
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2988
abstract: We analyse particle creation and mode mixing for a quantum field in an accelerated cavity, assuming small accelerations but allowing arbitrary velocities, travel times and travel distances, and in particular including the regime of relativistic velocities. As an application, we identify a desktop experimental scenario where the mode mixing resonance frequency in linear sinusoidal motion or in uniform circular motion is significantly below the particle creation resonance frequencies of the Dynamical Casimir Effect, and arguably at the threshold of current technology. The mode mixing acts as a beamsplitter quantum gate, experimentally detectable not only via fluxes or particle numbers but also via entanglement generation.

id: 1301.2991
title: Non-adiabatic many-atom quantum state control in few-well systems
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Mads Kock Pedersen, Klaus M?lmer, Jacob F. Sherson
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, extended version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063422 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2991
abstract: We present a fast scheme for arbitrary unitary control of interacting bosonic atoms in a double-well. Assuming fixed inter-well tunnelling rate and intra-well interaction strength, we control the many-atom state by a discrete sequence of shifts of the single-well energies. For strong interactions, resonant tunnelling transitions implement beam-splitter U(2) rotations among atom number eigenstates, which can be combined and, thus, permit full controllability. By numerically optimizing such sequences of couplings at avoided level crossings (CALC), we extend the realm of full controllability to a wide range of realistic interaction parameters, while we remain in the simple control space. We demonstrate the efficiency and the high achievable fidelity of our proposal with non-adiabatic population transfer, N00N-state creation, a C-NOT gate, and a transistor-like, conditional evolution of several atoms.

id: 1301.3000
title: Control of conditional quantum beats in cavity QED: amplitude decoherence and phase shifts
authors: A. D. Cimmarusti, C. A. Schroeder, B. D. Patterson, L. A. Orozco, P. Barberis-Blostein, H. J. Carmichael
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures
journal: Control of conditional quantum beats in cavity QED: amplitude decoherence and phase shifts A D Cimmarusti et al 2013 New J. Phys. 15 013017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3000
abstract: We implement a simple feedback mechanism on a two-mode cavity QED system to preserve the Zeeman coherence of a ground state superposition that generates quantum beats on the second-order correlation function. Our investigation includes theoretical and experimental studies that show how to prevent a shift away from the Larmor frequency and associated decoherence caused by Rayleigh scattering. The protocol consists of turning off the drive of the system after the detection of a first photon and letting it evolve in the dark. Turning the drive back on after a pre-set time reveals a phase accumulated only from Larmor precession, with the amplitude of the quantum beat more than a factor of two larger than with continuous drive.

id: 1301.3038
title: Quantum dice
authors: Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures; to be published in: Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics, Volume 336, September 2013, Pages 56-75
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3038
abstract: In a letter to Born, Einstein wrote: "Quantum mechanics is certainly imposing. But an inner voice tells me that it is not yet the real thing. The theory says a lot, but does not really bring us any closer to the secret of the old one. I, at any rate, am convinced that He does not throw dice." In this paper we take seriously Einstein's famous metaphor, and show that we can gain considerable insight into quantum mechanics by doing something as simple as rolling dice. More precisely, we show how to perform measurements on a single die, to create typical quantum interference effects, and how to connect (entangle) two identical dice, to maximally violate Bell's inequality.

id: 1301.3048
title: Coherent Storage of Temporally Multimode Light Using a Spin-Wave Atomic Frequency Comb Memory
authors: Mustafa G¨¹ndo?an, Margherita Mazzera, Patrick M. Ledingham, Matteo Cristiani, Hugues de Riedmatten
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 045012 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3048
abstract: We report on coherent and multi-temporal mode storage of light using the full atomic frequency comb memory scheme. The scheme involves the transfer of optical atomic excitations in Pr3+:Y2SiO5 to spin-waves in the hyperfine levels using strong single-frequency transfer pulses. Using this scheme, a total of 5 temporal modes are stored and recalled on-demand from the memory. The coherence of the storage and retrieval is characterized using a time-bin interference measurement resulting in visibilities higher than 80%, independent of the storage time. This coherent and multimode spin-wave memory is promising as a quantum memory for light.

id: 1301.3070
title: Phonon mediated electromagnetically induced absorption in hybrid opto-electro mechanical systems
authors: Kenan Qu, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 031802(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3070
abstract: We predict the existence of the electromagnetically induced absorption (EIA) in the double cavity configurations of the hybrid opto-electro mechanical systems (OEMS). We discuss the origin of the EIA in OEMS which exhibit the existence of an absorption peak within the transparency window. We provide analytical results for the width and the height of the EIA peak. The combination of the EIT and EIA is especially useful for photon switching applications. The EIA that we discuss is different from the one originally discovered by Lezama et al in atomic systems and can be understood in terms of the dynamics of three coupled oscillators (rather than two) under different conditions on the relaxation parameters. The EIA we report can also be realized in metamaterials and plasmonic structures.

id: 1301.3124
title: Deep learning and the renormalization group
authors: C¨¦dric B¨¦ny
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3124
abstract: Renormalization group (RG) methods, which model the way in which the effective behavior of a system depends on the scale at which it is observed, are key to modern condensed-matter theory and particle physics. We compare the ideas behind the RG on the one hand and deep machine learning on the other, where depth and scale play a similar role. In order to illustrate this connection, we review a recent numerical method based on the RG---the multiscale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA)---and show how it can be converted into a learning algorithm based on a generative hierarchical Bayesian network model. Under the assumption---common in physics---that the distribution to be learned is fully characterized by local correlations, this algorithm involves only explicit evaluation of probabilities, hence doing away with sampling.

id: 1301.3138
title: Security of two-way quantum key distribution
authors: Normand J. Beaudry, Marco Lucamarini, Stefano Mancini, Renato Renner
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3138
abstract: Quantum key distribution protocols typically make use of a one-way quantum channel to distribute a shared secret string to two distant users. However, protocols exploiting a two-way quantum channel have been proposed as an alternative route to the same goal, with the potential advantage of outperforming one-way protocols. Here we provide a strategy to prove security for two-way quantum key distribution protocols against the most general quantum attack possible by an eavesdropper. We utilize an entropic uncertainty relation, and only a few assumptions need to be made about the devices used in the protocol. We also show that a two-way protocol can outperform comparable one-way protocols.

id: 1301.3146
title: Probing the degree of non-Markovianity for independent and common environments
authors: Felipe F. Fanchini, Goktug Karpat, Leonardo K. Castelano, Daniel Z. Rossatto
comments: Minor mistake fixed for BLP measure in case of independent amplitude damping channel
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012105 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3146
abstract: We study the non-Markovianity of the dynamics of open quantum systems focusing on the cases of independent and common environmental interactions. We investigate the degree of non-Markovianity quantified by two distinct measures proposed by Luo, Fu and Song (LFS) and Breuer, Laine and Pillo (BLP). We show that the amount of non-Markovianity, for a single and a pair of qubits, depends on the quantum process, the proposed measure and whether the environmental interaction is collective or independent. In particular, we demonstrate that while the degree of non-Markovianity generally increases with the number of the qubits in the system for independent environments, the same behavior is not always observed for common environments. In the latter case, our analysis suggests that the amount of non-Markovianity could increase or decrease depending on the properties of the considered quantum process.

id: 1301.3154
title: Coherent Quantum Filtering for Physically Realizable Linear Quantum Plants
authors: Igor G. Vladimirov, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure, submitted to ECC 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3154
abstract: The paper is concerned with a problem of coherent (measurement-free) filtering for physically realizable (PR) linear quantum plants. The state variables of such systems satisfy canonical commutation relations and are governed by linear quantum stochastic differential equations, dynamically equivalent to those of an open quantum harmonic oscillator. The problem is to design another PR quantum system, connected unilaterally to the output of the plant and playing the role of a quantum filter, so as to minimize a mean square discrepancy between the dynamic variables of the plant and the output of the filter. This coherent quantum filtering (CQF) formulation is a simplified feedback-free version of the coherent quantum LQG control problem which remains open despite recent studies. The CQF problem is transformed into a constrained covariance control problem which is treated by using the Frechet differentiation of an appropriate Lagrange function with respect to the matrices of the filter.

id: 1301.3183
title: Violation of Bell's inequalities with pre-amplified homodyne detection
authors: G. Torlai, G. McKeown, P. Marek, R. Filip, H. Jeong, M. Paternostro, G. De Chiara
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052112 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3183
abstract: We show that the use of probabilistic noiseless amplification in entangled coherent state-based schemes for the test of quantum non locality provides substantial advantages. The threshold amplitude to falsify a Bell-CHSH non locality test, in fact, is significantly reduced when amplification is embedded into the test itself. Such a beneficial effect holds also in the presence of detection-inefficiency. Our study helps in affirming noiseless amplification as a valuable tool for coherent information processing and the generation of strongly non classical states of bosonic systems.

id: 1301.3210
title: Faster Quantum Number Factoring via Circuit Synthesis
authors: Igor L. Markov, Mehdi Saeedi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 87: 012310 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3210
abstract: A major obstacle to implementing Shor's quantum number-factoring algorithm is the large size of modular-exponentiation circuits. We reduce this bottleneck by customizing reversible circuits for modular multiplication to individual runs of Shor's algorithm. Our circuit-synthesis procedure exploits spectral properties of multiplication operators and constructs optimized circuits from the traces of the execution of an appropriate GCD algorithm. Empirically, gate counts are reduced by 4-5 times, and circuit latency is reduced by larger factors.

id: 1301.3235
title: Robust control of quantum gates via sequential convex programming
authors: Robert L. Kosut, Matthew D. Grace, Constantin Brif
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 88, 052326 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3235
abstract: Resource tradeoffs can often be established by solving an appropriate robust optimization problem for a variety of scenarios involving constraints on optimization variables and uncertainties. Using an approach based on sequential convex programming, we demonstrate that quantum gate transformations can be made substantially robust against uncertainties while simultaneously using limited resources of control amplitude and bandwidth. Achieving such a high degree of robustness requires a quantitative model that specifies the range and character of the uncertainties. Using a model of a controlled one-qubit system for illustrative simulations, we identify robust control fields for a universal gate set and explore the tradeoff between the worst-case gate fidelity and the field fluence. Our results demonstrate that, even for this simple model, there exist a rich variety of control design possibilities. In addition, we study the effect of noise represented by a stochastic uncertainty model.

id: 1301.3242
title: Quantum-limited measurement of magnetic-field gradient with entangled atoms
authors: H. T. Ng
comments: 8 pages, 12 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 043602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3242
abstract: We propose a method to detect the microwave magnetic-field gradient by using a pair of entangled two-component Bose-Einstein condensates. We consider the two spatially separated condensates to be coupled to the two different magnetic fields. The magnetic-field gradient can be determined by measuring the variances of population differences and relative phases between the two-component condensates in two wells. The precision of measurement can reach the Heisenberg limit. We study the effects of one-body and two-body atom losses on the detection. We find that the entangled atoms can outperform the uncorrelated atoms in probing the magnetic fields in the presence of atom losses. The effect of atom-atom interactions is also discussed.

id: 1301.3274
title: Quantum-Bayesian Coherence: The No-Nonsense Version
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs, Ruediger Schack
comments: 31 pages, 3 figures; this is a compact, more straightforward, and less philosophical version of arXiv:0906.2187
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 85, 1693-1715 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3274
abstract: In the Quantum-Bayesian interpretation of quantum theory (or QBism), the Born Rule cannot be interpreted as a rule for setting measurement-outcome probabilities from an objective quantum state. But if not, what is the role of the rule? In this paper, we argue that it should be seen as an empirical addition to Bayesian reasoning itself. Particularly, we show how to view the Born Rule as a normative rule in addition to usual Dutch-book coherence. It is a rule that takes into account how one should assign probabilities to the consequences of various intended measurements on a physical system, but explicitly in terms of prior probabilities for and conditional probabilities consequent upon the imagined outcomes of a special counterfactual reference measurement. This interpretation is seen particularly clearly by representing quantum states in terms of probabilities for the outcomes of a fixed, fiducial symmetric informationally complete (SIC) measurement. We further explore the extent to which the general form of the new normative rule implies the full state-space structure of quantum mechanics.

id: 1301.3337
title: Universal Response Curve for Nanowire Superconducting Single-Photon Detectors
authors: Jelmer Renema, Giulia Frucci, Zili Zhou, Francesco Mattioli, Allesandro Gaggero, Roberto Leoni, Michiel J. A. de Dood, Andrea Fiore, Martin P. van Exter
comments: Revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3337
abstract: Using detector tomography, we investigate the detection mechanism in NbN-based superconducting single photon detectors (SSPDs). We demonstrate that the detection probability uniquely depends on a particular linear combination of bias current and energy, for a large variation of bias currents, input energies and detection probabilities, producing a universal detection curve. We obtain this result by studying multiphoton excitations in a nanodetector with a sparsity-based tomographic method that allows factoring out of the optical absorption. We discuss the implication of our model system for the understanding of meander-type SSPDs.

id: 1301.3364
title: Two-color quantum memory in double ¦«-media
authors: D. Viscor, V. Ahufinger, J. Mompart, A. Zavatta, G. C. La Rocca, M. Artoni
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053827 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3364
abstract: We propose a quantum memory for a single-photon wave packet in a superposition of two different colors, i.e., two different frequency components, using the electromagnetically induced transparency technique in a double-{\Lambda} system. We examine a specific configuration in which the two frequency components are able to exchange energy through a four-wave mixing process as they propagate, so the state of the incident photon is recovered periodically at certain positions in the medium. We investigate the propagation dynamics as a function of the relative phase between the coupling beams and the input single-photon frequency components. Moreover, by considering time-dependent coupling beams, we numerically simulate the storage and retrieval of a two-frequency-component single-photon qubit.

id: 1301.3372
title: Five Two-Qubit Gates Are Necessary for Implementing Toffoli Gate
authors: Nengkun Yu, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 5 Pages, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 010304(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3372
abstract: In this paper, we settle the long-standing open problem of the minimum cost of two-qubit gates for simulating a Toffoli gate. More precisely, we show that five two-qubit gates are necessary. Before our work, it is known that five gates are sufficient and only numerical evidences have been gathered, indicating that the five-gate implementation is necessary. The idea introduced here can also be used to solve the problem of optimal simulation of three-qubit control phase introduced by Deutsch in 1989.

id: 1301.3379
title: Compact 2D Nonlinear Photonic Crystal Source of Beamlike Path Entangled Photons
authors: E. Megidish, A. Halevy, H. S. Eisenberg, A. Ganany-Padowicz, N. Habshoosh, A. Arie
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, 21, Issue 6, pp. 6689-6696 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3379
abstract: We demonstrate a method to generate entangled photons with controlled spatial shape by parametric down conversion (PDC) in a 2D nonlinear crystal. A compact and novel crystal source was designed and fabricated, generating directly path entangled photons without the use of additional beam-splitters. This crystal supports two PDC processes, emitting biphotons into two beamlike modes simultaneously. Two coherent path entangled amplitudes of biphotons were created and their interference observed. Our method enables the generation of entangled photons with controlled spatial, spectral and polarization properties.

id: 1301.3407
title: Commuting Local Hamiltonians on Expanders, Locally Testable Quantum codes, and the qPCP conjecture
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Lior Eldar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3407
abstract: Understanding commuting local Hamiltonians (CLHs) is at the heart of many questions in quantum computational complexity and quantum physics: quantum error correcting codes, quantum NP, the PCP conjecture, topological order and more.

id: 1301.3421
title: Universal Subspaces for Local Unitary Groups of Fermionic Systems
authors: Lin Chen, Jianxin Chen, Dragomir Z. Djokovic, Bei Zeng
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures. Abstract has been rewritten
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, Volume 333, Issue 2, pp 541-563 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3421
abstract: Let $\mathcal{V}=\wedge^N V$ be the $N$-fermion Hilbert space with $M$-dimensional single particle space $V$ and $2N\le M$. We refer to the unitary group $G$ of $V$ as the local unitary (LU) group. We fix an orthonormal (o.n.) basis $\ket{v_1},...,\ket{v_M}$ of $V$. Then the Slater determinants $e_{i_1,...,i_N}:= \ket{v_{i_1}\we v_{i_2}\we...\we v_{i_N}}$ with $i_1<...<i_N$ form an o.n. basis of $\cV$. Let $\cS\subseteq\cV$ be the subspace spanned by all $e_{i_1,...,i_N}$ such that the set $\{i_1,...,i_N\}$ contains no pair $\{2k-1,2k\}$, $k$ an integer. We say that the $\ket{\psi}\in\cS$ are single occupancy states (with respect to the basis $\ket{v_1},...,\ket{v_M}$). We prove that for N=3 the subspace $\cS$ is universal, i.e., each $G$-orbit in $\cV$ meets $\cS$, and that this is false for N>3. If $M$ is even, the well known BCS states are not LU-equivalent to any single occupancy state. Our main result is that for N=3 and $M$ even there is a universal subspace $\cW\subseteq\cS$ spanned by $M(M-1)(M-5)/6$ states $e_{i_1,...,i_N}$. Moreover the number $M(M-1)(M-5)/6$ is minimal.

id: 1301.3452
title: Exponential communication gap between weak and strong classical simulations of quantum communication
authors: Alberto Montina
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042331 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3452
abstract: The most trivial way to simulate classically the communication of a quantum state is to transmit the classical description of the quantum state itself. However, this requires an infinite amount of classical communication if the simulation is exact. A more intriguing and potentially less demanding strategy would encode the full information about the quantum state into the probability distribution of the communicated variables, so that this information is never sent in each single shot. This kind of simulation is called weak, as opposed to strong simulations, where the quantum state is communicated in individual shots. In this paper, we introduce a bounded-error weak protocol for simulating the communication of an arbitrary number of qubits and a subsequent two-outcome measurement consisting of an arbitrary pure state projector and its complement. This protocol requires an amount of classical communication independent of the number of qubits and proportional to Delta^{-1}, where Delta is the error and a free parameter of the protocol. Conversely, a bounded-error strong protocol requires an amount of classical communication growing exponentially with the number of qubits for a fixed error. Our result improves a previous protocol, based on the Johnson-Lindenstrauss lemma, with communication cost scaling as Delta^{-2} log Delta^{-1}.

id: 1301.3496
title: An experimental proposal for revealing contextuality in almost all qutrit states
authors: Jayne Thompson, Robert Pisarczyk, Pawel Kurzynski, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3496
abstract: Contextuality is a foundational phenomenon underlying key differences between quantum theory and classical realistic descriptions of the world. Here we propose an experimental test which is capable of revealing contextuality in all qutrit systems, except the completely mixed state, provided we choose the measurement basis appropriately. The 3-level system is furnished by the polarization and spatial degrees of freedom of a single photon, which encompass three orthogonal modes. Projective measurements along rays in the 3-dimensional Hilbert space are made by linear optical elements and detectors which are sensitive to a single mode. We also discuss the impact of detector inefficiency and losses and review the theoretical foundations of this test.

id: 1301.3526
title: The geometric approach to quantum correlations: Computability versus reliability
authors: Tommaso Tufarelli, Tom MacLean, Davide Girolami, Ruggero Vasile, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures; presentation improved; to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 275308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3526
abstract: We propose a modified metric based on the Hilbert-Schmidt norm and adopt it to define a rescaled version of the geometric measure of quantum discord. Such a measure is found not to suffer from the pathological dependence on state purity. Although the employed metric is still noncontractive under quantum operations, we show that the resulting indicator of quantum correlations is in agreement with other bona fide discord measures in a number of physical examples. We present a critical assessment of the requirements of reliability versus computability when approaching the task of quantifying, or measuring, general quantum correlations in a bipartite state.

id: 1301.3576
title: Multipartite Entanglement and Hypergraph states of three qubits
authors: Ri Qu, Zong-shang Li, Juan Wang, Yan-ru Bao
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032329 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3576
abstract: Several entanglement measures are used to define equivalence classes in the set of hypergraph states of three qubits. Our classifications reveal that (i) under local unitary transformations, hypergraph states of three qubits are split into six classes and only one class of them is not equivalent to any graph state; (ii) under stochastic local operations with classical communication, for the single copy case hypergraph states of three qubits, partitioned into five classes which can not be converted into a W state, are equivalent to graph states; and (iii) when bipartite entanglement in three qubits considered, hypergraph states of three qubits are split into five classes and only one class of them has the same entangled graph as the W state.

id: 1301.3585
title: Introduction to the Rotating Wave Approximation (RWA) : Two Coherent Oscillations
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex ; 22 pages ; 4 figures. A new section is added. This note is based on my lectures at Yokohama City University
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3585
abstract: In this note I introduce a mysterious approximation called the rotating wave approximation (RWA) to undergraduates or non-experts who are interested in both Mathematics and Quantum Optics. In Quantum Optics it plays a very important role in order to obtain an analytic approximate solution of some Schr{\"o}dinger equation, while it is curious from the mathematical point of view. I explain it carefully with two coherent oscillations for them and expect that they will overcome the problem in the near future.

id: 1301.3616
title: Degree of Polarization in Quantum Optics through second generalization of Intensity
authors: Ravi S. Singh, Hari Prakash
comments: 17 pages, Accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 025802 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3616
abstract: Classical definition of degree of polarization is expressed in quantum domain by replacing intensities through quantum mechanical average values of relevant number operators and is viewed as first generalization of Intensity. This definition assigns inaccurately the unpolarized status to some typical optical fields such as amplitude coherent phase randomized and hidden polarized, which are not truly unpolarized light. The apparent paradoxical trait is circumvented by proposing a new definition of degree of polarization in Quantum Optics through second generalization of Intensity. The correspondence of new degree of polarization to usual degree of polarization in Quantum Optics is established. It is seen that the two definitions disagree significantly for intense optical fields but coincides for weak light (thermal light) or for optical fields in which occupancy of photons in orthogonal mode is very feeble. Our proposed definition of degree of polarization, similar to other proposals in literature, reveals an interesting feature that states of polarization of optical quantum fields depend upon the average photons (intensity) present therein.

id: 1301.3626
title: Quantum continuous measurements: The stochastic Schroedinger equations and the spectrum of the output
authors: Alberto Barchielli, Matteo Gregoratti
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures. Enlarged version. To appear in Quantum Measurement and Quantum Metrology
journal: Quantum Measurements and Quantum Metrology 1 (2013) 34-56
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3626
abstract: The stochastic Schr\"odinger equation, of classical or quantum type, allows to describe open quantum systems under measurement in continuous time. In this paper we review the link between these two descriptions and we study the properties of the output of the measurement. For simplicity we deal only with the diffusive case. Firstly, we discuss the quantum stochastic Schr\"odinger equation, which is based on quantum stochastic calculus, and we show how to transform it into the classical stochastic Schr\"odinger equation by diagonalization of suitable quantum observables, based on the isomorphism between Fock space and Wiener space. Then, we give the a posteriori state, the conditional system state at time $t$ given the output up to that time and we link its evolution to the classical stochastic Schr\"odinger equation. Finally, we study the output of the continuous measurement, which is a stochastic process with probability distribution given by the rules of quantum mechanics. When the output process is stationary, at least in the long run, the spectrum of the process can be introduced and its properties studied. In particular we show how the Heisenberg uncertainty relations give rise to characteristic bounds on the possible spectra and we discuss how this is related to the typical quantum phenomenon of squeezing. We use a simple quantum system, a two-level atom stimulated by a laser, to discuss the differences between homodyne and heterodyne detection and to explicitly show squeezing and anti-squeezing and the Mollow triplet in the fluorescence spectrum.

id: 1301.3646
title: Quantum quenches of ion Coulomb crystals across structural instabilities II: thermal effects
authors: Jens D. Baltrusch, Cecilia Cormick, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032116 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3646
abstract: We theoretically analyze the efficiency of a protocol for creating mesoscopic superpositions of ion chains, described in [Phys. Rev. A 84, 063821 (2011)], as a function of the temperature of the crystal. The protocol makes use of spin-dependent forces, so that a coherent superposition of the electronic states of one ion evolves into an entangled state between the chain's internal and external degrees of freedom. Ion Coulomb crystals are well isolated from the external environment, and should therefore experience a coherent, unitary evolution, which follows the quench and generates structural Schr\"odinger cat-like states. The temperature of the chain, however, introduces a statistical uncertainty in the final state. We characterize the quantum state of the crystal by means of the visibility of Ramsey interferometry performed on one ion of the chain, and determine its decay as a function of the crystal's initial temperature. This analysis allows one to determine the conditions on the chain's initial state in order to efficiently perform the protocol.

id: 1301.3662
title: Composable security of delegated quantum computation
authors: Vedran Dunjko, Joseph F. Fitzsimons, Christopher Portmann, Renato Renner
comments: 37+9 pages, 13 figures. v3: minor changes, new references. v2: extended the reduction between composable and local security to include entangled inputs, substantially rewritten the introduction to the Abstract Cryptography (AC) framework
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3662
abstract: Delegating difficult computations to remote large computation facilities, with appropriate security guarantees, is a possible solution for the ever-growing needs of personal computing power. For delegated computation protocols to be usable in a larger context---or simply to securely run two protocols in parallel---the security definitions need to be composable. Here, we define composable security for delegated quantum computation. We distinguish between protocols which provide only blindness---the computation is hidden from the server---and those that are also verifiable---the client can check that it has received the correct result. We show that the composable security definition capturing both these notions can be reduced to a combination of several distinct "trace-distance-type" criteria---which are, individually, non-composable security definitions. Additionally, we study the security of some known delegated quantum computation protocols, including Broadbent, Fitzsimons and Kashefi's Universal Blind Quantum Computation protocol. Even though these protocols were originally proposed with insufficient security criteria, they turn out to still be secure given the stronger composable definitions.

id: 1301.3727
title: Optimal simulation of three-qubit gates
authors: Nengkun Yu, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 16 Pages, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3727
abstract: In this paper, we study the optimal simulation of three-qubit unitary by using two-qubit gates. First, we give a lower bound on the two-qubit gates cost of simulating a multi-qubit gate. Secondly, we completely characterize the two-qubit gate cost of simulating a three-qubit controlled controlled gate by generalizing our result on the cost of Toffoli gate. The function of controlled controlled gate is simply a three-qubit controlled unitary gate and can be intuitively explained as follows: the gate will output the states of the two control qubit directly, and apply the given one-qubit unitary $u$ on the target qubit only if both the states of the control are $\ket{1}$. Previously, it is only known that five two-qubit gates is sufficient for implementing such a gate [Sleator and Weinfurter, Phys. Rev. Lett. 74, 4087 (1995)]. Our result shows that if the determinant of $u$ is 1, four two-qubit gates is achievable optimal. Otherwise, five is optimal. Thirdly, we show that five two-qubit gates are necessary and sufficient for implementing the Fredkin gate(the controlled swap gate), which settles the open problem introduced in [Smolin and DiVincenzo, Phys. Rev. A, 53, 2855 (1996)]. The Fredkin gate is one of the most important quantum logic gates because it is universal alone for classical reversible computation, and thus with little help, universal for quantum computation. Before our work, a five two-qubit gates decomposition of the Fredkin gate was already known, and numerical evidence of showing five is optimal is found.

id: 1301.3747
title: Generalized parity in multi-photon Rabi model
authors: Bart?omiej Gardas, Jerzy Dajka
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3747
abstract: Quantum multi--photon spin--boson model is considered. We solve an operator Riccati equation associated with that model and present a candidate for a generalized parity operator allowing to transform spin--boson Hamiltonian to a block diagonal form what indicates an existence of the related symmetry of the model.

id: 1301.3762
title: Gain-tunable optomechanical cooling in a laser cavity
authors: Li Ge, Sanli Faez, Florian Marquardt, Hakan E. Tureci
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053839 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3762
abstract: We study the optical cooling of the resonator mirror in a cavity-optomechanical system that contains an optical gain medium. We find that the optical damping rate is vanishingly small for an incoherently pumped laser above threshold. In the presence of an external coherent drive however, the optical damping rate can be enhanced substantially with respect to that of a passive cavity. We show that the strength of the incoherent pump provides a conduit to tune the damping rate and the minimum attainable phonon number with the same radiation pressure force, and the latter can be lowered from that of a passive cavity if the thermal contribution is nonnegligible. We also show that the system can undergo a transition from the weak optomechanical coupling regime to the strong optomechanical coupling regime as the incoherent pump strength is varied.

id: 1301.3786
title: Demonstration of a dressed-state phase gate for trapped ions
authors: T. R. Tan, J. P Gaebler, R. Bowler, Y. Lin, J. D. Jost, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3786
abstract: We demonstrate a trapped-ion entangling-gate scheme proposed by Bermudez et al. [Phys. Rev. A 85, 040302 (2012)]. Simultaneous excitation of a strong carrier and a single-sideband transition enables deterministic creation of entangled states. The method works for magnetic field-insensitive states, is robust against thermal excitations, includes dynamical decoupling from qubit dephasing errors, and provides simplifications in experimental implementation compared to some other entangling gates with trapped ions. We achieve a Bell state fidelity of 0.974(4) and identify the main sources of error.

id: 1301.3938
title: Quantum simulation of a spin polarization device in an electron microscope
authors: Vincenzo Grillo, Lorenzo Marrucci, Ebrahim Karimi, Riccardo Zanella, Enrico Santamato
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3938
abstract: A proposal for an electron-beam device that can act as an efficient spin-polarization filter has been recently put forward [E. Karimi et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 044801 (2012)]. It is based on combining the recently developed diffraction technology for imposing orbital angular momentum to the beam with a multipolar Wien filter inducing a sort of artificial non-relativistic spin-orbit coupling. Here we reconsider the proposed device with a fully quantum-mechanical simulation of the electron beam propagation, based on the well established multi-slice method, supplemented with a Pauli term for taking into account the spin degree of freedom. Using this upgraded numerical tool, we study the feasibility and practical limitations of the proposed method for spin-polarizing a free electron beam

id: 1301.3960
title: System-environment coupling derived by Maxwell's boundary conditions from weak to ultrastrong light-matter coupling regime
authors: Motoaki Bamba, Tetsuo Ogawa
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013814 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3960
abstract: In the standard theory of cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED), coupling between photons inside and outside a cavity (cavity system and photonic reservoir) is given conserving the total number of photons. However, when the cavity photons (ultra)strongly interact with atoms or excitations in matters, the system-reservoir coupling must be determined from a more fundamental viewpoint. Based on the Maxwell's boundary conditions in the QED theory for dielectric media, we derive the quantum Langevin equation and input-output relation, in which the total number of polaritons (not photons) inside the cavity and photons outside is conserved.

id: 1301.4027
title: Beyond Bell's theorem: Admissible hidden-variable models for the spin-singlet
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: Based on the oral presentation given at DICE 2012, submitted to J. Phys. Conf. Ser. No new results compared to arXiv:1105.1286 [quant-ph], just a different exposition. Reused an appendix reviewing some HV models that was excised in the final version of 1105.1286
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 442 012046 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4027
abstract: Assuming that quantum mechanics is obeyed exactly after averaging over hidden variables, and considering models that obey both the hypotheses of free will and locality, we establish the form of all possible hidden-variable models that reproduce the spin-singlet.

id: 1301.4079
title: Coherent state of a weakly interacting ultracold Fermi gas
authors: Arnab Ghosh, Sudarson Sekhar Sinha, Deb Shankar Ray
comments: 21 pages, 0 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4079
abstract: We examine the weakly interacting atoms in an ultracold Fermi gas leading to a state of macroscopic coherence, from a theoretical perspective. It has been shown that this state can be described as a fermionic coherent state. These coherent states are the eigenstates of fermionic annihilation operators, the eigenvalues being anti-commuting numbers or Grassmann numbers. By exploiting the simple rules of Grassmann algebra and a close kinship between relations evaluated for more familiar bosonic fields and those for fermionic fields, we derive the thermodynamic limit, the spontaneous symmetry breaking and the quasi-particle spectrum of the fermionic system.

id: 1301.4082
title: Using Partial Transpose and Realignment to generate Local Unitary Invariants
authors: Udaysinh T. Bhosale, K. V. Shuddhodan, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052311 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4082
abstract: Motivated by link transformations of lattice gauge theory, a method for generating local unitary invariants, especially for a system of qubits, has been pointed out in an earlier work [M. S. Williamson {\it et. al.}, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 83}, 062308 (2011)]. This paper first points the equivalence of the so constructed transformations to the combined operations of partial transpose and realignment. This allows construction of local unitary invariants of any system, with subsystems of arbitrary dimensions. Some properties of the resulting operators and consequences for pure tripartite higher dimensional states are briefly discussed.

id: 1301.4139
title: Topologically-protected quantum memory interfacing atomic and superconducting qubits
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue, Zhang-qi Yin, Yan Chen, Z. D. Wang, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4139
abstract: We propose a scheme to manipulate a kind of topological spin qubits realized with cold atoms in a one-dimensional optical lattice. In particularly, by introducing a quantum optomechanical setup, we are able to fist transfer a superconducting qubit state to an atomic state and then to store it into the topological spin qubit. In this way, an efficient topological quantum memory may be constructed for the superconducting qubit. Therefore, we can consolidate the advantages of both the noise resistance of topological qubits and the scalability of superconducting qubits in this hybrid architecture.

id: 1301.4178
title: Motion of macroscopic bodies in the electromagnetic field
authors: S. A. R. Horsley
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4178
abstract: A theory is presented for calculating the effect of the electromagnetic field on the centre of mass of a macroscopic dielectric body that is valid in both quantum and classical regimes. We apply the theory to find the classical equation of motion for the centre of mass of a macroscopic object in a classical field, and the spreading of an initially localized wave-packet representing the centre of mass of a small object, in a quantum field. The classical force is found to be consistent with the identification of the Abraham momentum with the mechanical momentum of light, and the motion of the wave-packet is found to be subject to an acceleration due to the Casimir force, and a time dependent fluctuating motion due the creation of pairs of excitations within the object. The theory is valid for any dielectric that has susceptibilities satisfying the Kramers-Kronig relations, and is not subject to arguments regarding the form of the electromagnetic energy-momentum tensor within a medium.

id: 1301.4212
title: Non-Markovian Toy Quantum Chain
authors: Andr¨¢s Bodor, Lajos Di¨®si, Zs¨®fia Kallus, Thomas Konrad
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A87 (2013) 052113-(7)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4212
abstract: We propose a simple structure for stationary non-Markovian quantum chains in the framework of collisional dynamics of open quantum systems. To this end, we modify the microscopic Markovian system--reservoir model, consider multiple collisions with each of the molecules with an overlap between the collisional time intervals. We show how the equivalent Markovian quantum chain can be constructed with the addition of satellite quantum memory to the system. We distinguish quantum from classical non-Markovianity. Moreover, we define the counts of non-Markovianity by the required number of satellite qubits and bits, respectively. As the particular measure of quantum non-Markovianity the discord of the satellite w.r.t. the system is suggested. Simplest qubit realizations are discussed, and the significance for real system--environment dynamics is also pointed out.

id: 1301.4246
title: Matrix product states for quantum metrology
authors: Marcin Jarzyna, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 240405 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4246
abstract: We demonstrate that the optimal states in lossy quantum interferometry may be efficiently simulated using low rank matrix product states. We argue that this should be expected in all realistic quantum metrological protocols with uncorrelated noise and is related to the elusive nature of the Heisenberg precision scaling in presence of decoherence.

id: 1301.4256
title: Entanglement between nitrogen vacancy spins in diamond controlled by a nanomechanical resonator
authors: L. Chotorlishvili, D. Sander, A. Sukhov, V. Dugaev, V.R. Vieira, A. Komnik, J. Berakdar
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 085201 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4256
abstract: We suggest a new type of nano-electromechanical resonator, the functionality of which is based on a magnetic field induced deflection of an appropriate cantilever that oscillates between nitrogen vacancy (NV) spins in daimond. Specifically, we consider a Si(100) cantilever coated with a thin magnetic Ni film. Magnetoelastic stress and magnetic-field induced torque are utilized to induce a controlled cantilever deflection. It is shown that, depending on the value of the system parameters, the induced asymmetry of the cantilever deflection substantially modifies the characteristics of the system. In particular, the coupling strength between the NV spins and the degree of entanglement can be controlled through magnetoelastic stress and magnetic-field induced torque effects. Our theoretical proposal can be implemented experimentally with the potential of increasing several times the coupling strength between the NV spins as compared to the maximal coupling strength reported before in P. Rabl, et al. Phys. Rev. B 79, 041302(R) (2009).

id: 1301.4270
title: A Gravitational Aharonov-Bohm Effect, and its Connection to Parametric Oscillators and Gravitational Radiation
authors: Raymond Y. Chiao, Robert W. Haun, Nader A. Inan, Bong-Soo Kang, Luis A. Martinez, Stephen J. Minter, Gerardo A. Mu?oz, Douglas A. Singleton
comments: 25 pages, 5 figures, YA80 conference (Chapman University, 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4270
abstract: A thought experiment is proposed to demonstrate the existence of a gravitational, vector Aharonov-Bohm effect. A connection is made between the gravitational, vector Aharonov-Bohm effect and the principle of local gauge invariance for nonrelativistic quantum matter interacting with weak gravitational fields. The compensating vector fields that are necessitated by this local gauge principle are shown to be incorporated by the DeWitt minimal coupling rule. The nonrelativistic Hamiltonian for weak, time-independent fields interacting with quantum matter is then extended to time-dependent fields, and applied to problem of the interaction of radiation with macroscopically coherent quantum systems, including the problem of gravitational radiation interacting with superconductors. But first we examine the interaction of EM radiation with superconductors in a parametric oscillator consisting of a superconducting wire placed at the center of a high Q superconducting cavity driven by pump microwaves. We find that the threshold for parametric oscillation for EM microwave generation is much lower for the separated configuration than the unseparated one, which then leads to an observable dynamical Casimir effect. We speculate that a separated parametric oscillator for generating coherent GR microwaves could also be built.

id: 1301.4296
title: Information gain in tomography - A quantum signature of chaos
authors: Vaibhav Madhok, Carlos A. Riofr¨ªo, Shohini Ghose, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 014102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4296
abstract: We find quantum signatures of classical chaos in various metrics of information gain in quantum tomography. We employ a quantum state estimator based on weak collective measurements of an ensemble of identically prepared systems. The tomographic measurement record consists of a sequence of expectation values of a Hermitian operator that evolves under repeated application of the Floquet map of the quantum kicked top. We find an increase in information gain and hence higher fidelities in the reconstruction algorithm when the chaoticity parameter map increases. The results are well predicted by random matrix theory.

id: 1301.4310
title: Fluctuation corrections on thermodynamic functions: Finite size effect
authors: Sudarson Sekhar Sinha, Arnab Ghosh, Deb Shankar Ray
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures, Presented as poster in Theoretical Chemistry Symposium, 2012 held at IIT Guwahati, India
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4310
abstract: The explicit thermodynamic functions, in particular, the specific heat of a spin system interacting with a spin bath which exerts finite dissipation on the system are determined. We show that the specific heat is a sum of the products of a thermal equilibration factor that carries the temperature dependence and a dynamical correction factor, characteristic of the dissipative energy flow under steady state from the system. The variation of specific heat with temperature is accompanied by an abrupt transition that depends on these dynamical factors characteristic of the finite system size.

id: 1301.4317
title: Identification of three-qubit entanglement
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Ting-Gui Zhang, Xianqing Li-Jost, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: PhysRevA.87.012316(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4317
abstract: We present a way of identifying all kinds of entanglement for three-qubit pure states in terms of the expectation values of Pauli operators. The necessary and sufficient conditions to classify the fully separable, biseparable, and genuine entangled states are explicitly given. The approach can be generalized to multipartite high-dimensional cases. For three-qubit mixed states, we propose two kinds of inequalities in terms of the expectation values of complementary observables. One inequality has advantages in entanglement detection of the quantum state with positive partial transpositions, and the other is able to detect genuine entanglement. The results give an effective method for experimental entanglement identification.

id: 1301.4328
title: What is a quantum-mechanical 'weak value' the value of?
authors: Bengt E Y Svensson
comments: 
journal: Found. Phys. 43 1193 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4328
abstract: A so called 'weak value' of an observable in quantum mechanics (QM) may be obtained in a weak measurement + post-selection procedure on the QM system under study. Applied to number operators, it has been invoked in revisiting some QM paradoxes (e.g., the so called Three Box paradox and Hardy s paradox). This requires the weak value to be interpreted as a bona fide property of the system considered, a par with entities like operator mean values and eigenvalues. I question such an interpretation; it has no support in the basic axioms of quantum mechanics and it leads to unreasonable results in concrete situations.

id: 1301.4373
title: Amplitudes for Spacetime Regions and the Quantum Zeno Effect: Pitfalls of Standard Path Integral Constructions
authors: J.J.Halliwell, J.M.Yearsley
comments: To appear in proceedings of the 2012 DICE Conference (edited by T.Elze). arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1205.3773
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4373
abstract: We argue that under very general conditions, there is a significant complication in amplitudes for spacetimes regions constructed from path integrals. This is the fact that the concrete implementation of the restrictions on paths over an interval of time corresponds, in an operator language, to sharp monitoring at every moment of time in the given time interval. Such processes suffer from the quantum Zeno effect -- the continual monitoring of a quantum system in a Hilbert subspace prevents its state from leaving that subspace. As a consequence, path integral amplitudes defined in this seemingly obvious way have physically and intuitively unreasonable properties and in particular, no sensible classical limit. In this paper we describe this frequently-occurring but little-appreciated phenomenon in some detail, showing clearly the connection with the quantum Zeno effect. We then show that it may be avoided by implementing the restriction on paths in the path integral in a "softer" way. The resulting amplitudes then involve a new coarse graining parameter, which may be taken to be a timescale $\eps$, describing the softening of the restrictions on the paths. We argue that the complications arising from the Zeno effect are then negligible as long as $\eps >> 1/ E$, where $E$ is the energy scale of the incoming state. Our criticisms of path integral constructions largely apply to approaches to quantum theory such as the decoherent histories approach or quantum measure theory, which do not specifically involve measurements. We address some criticisms of our approach by Sokolovksi, concerning the relevance of our results to measurement-based models.

id: 1301.4404
title: Absorption in quantum electrodynamics cavities in terms of a quantum jump operator
authors: V. Debierre, G. Dem¨¦sy, T. Durt, A. Nicolet, B. Vial, F. Zolla
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4404
abstract: We describe the absorption by the walls of a quantum electrodynamics cavity as a process during which the elementary excitations (photons) of an internal mode of the cavity exit by tunneling through the cavity walls. We estimate by classical methods the survival time of a photon inside the cavity and the quality factor of its mirrors.

id: 1301.4441
title: Communication Complexity of Channels in General Probabilistic Theories
authors: A. Montina, M. Pfaffhauser, S. Wolf
comments: Added analytical and numerical calculations for the quantum depolarizing channel
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 160502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4441
abstract: The communication complexity of a quantum channel is the minimal amount of classical communication required for classically simulating the process of preparation, transmission through the channel, and subsequent measurement of a quantum state. At present, only little is known about this quantity. In this paper, we present a procedure for systematically evaluating the communication complexity of channels in any general probabilistic theory, in particular quantum theory. The procedure is constructive and provides the most efficient classical protocols. We illustrate this procedure by evaluating the communication complexity of a quantum depolarizing channel with some finite sets of quantum states and measurements.

id: 1301.4458
title: Probing Correlations, Indistinguishability and Entanglement in Microwave Two-Photon Interference
authors: C. Lang, C. Eichler, L. Steffen, J. M. Fink, M. J. Woolley, A. Blais, A. Wallraff
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 9, 345-348 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4458
abstract: Interference at a beam splitter reveals both classical and quantum properties of electromagnetic radiation. When two indistinguishable single photons impinge at the two inputs of a beam splitter they coalesce into a pair of photons appearing in either one of its two outputs. This effect is due to the bosonic nature of photons and was first experimentally observed by Hong, Ou, and Mandel (HOM) [1]. Here, we present the observation of the HOM effect with two independent single-photon sources in the microwave frequency domain. We probe the indistinguishability of single photons, created with a controllable delay, in time-resolved second-order cross- and auto-correlation function measurements. Using quadrature amplitude detection we are able to resolve different photon numbers and detect coherence in and between the output arms. This measurement scheme allows us to observe the HOM effect and, in addition, to fully characterize the two-mode entanglement of the spatially separated beam splitter output modes. Our experiments constitute a first step towards using two-photon interference at microwave frequencies for quantum communication and information processing, e.g. for distributing entanglement between nodes of a quantum network [2, 3] and for linear optics quantum computation [4, 5].

id: 1301.4461
title: Sure-Success Quantum Algorithms on Weight Decision Problem
authors: K. Uyanik, S. Turgut
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4461
abstract: Conditions on sure-success decidability of weights of Boolean functions are presented for a given number of generalized Grover iterations. It is shown that the decidability problem reduces to a system of algebraic equations of a single variable. For problems that require a large number of iterations, it is observed that the iteration number of sure-success quantum algorithms scale as the square root of the iteration number of the corresponding classical probabilistic algorithms. It is also demonstrated that for a few iterations, quantum algorithms can be more efficient than this.

id: 1301.4462
title: The quantum Rabi model for two qubits
authors: S. A. Chilingaryan, B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 335301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4462
abstract: We study the two-qubit Rabi model in the most general case where the qubits are different from each other. The spectrum of the system in the ultrastrong-coupling regime is shown to converge to two forced oscillator chains by perturbation theory. An even and odd decomposition of the Hilbert space allows us to calculate the spectra in any given parameter regime; the cases studied confirm our perturbation theory prediction in the ultrastrong-coupling regime and point to crossings in the spectra within each parity subspace in the moderate-coupling regime. The normal modes of the system are calculated by two different methods, the first a linear algebra approach via the parity bases that delivers a four-term recurrence relation for the amplitudes of the proper states and, the second, via Bargmann representation for the field that delivers five-term recurrence relations. Finally, we show some examples of the time evolution of the mean photon number, population inversion, von Neuman entropy and Wootters concurrence under the two-qubit quantum Rabi Hamiltonian by taking advantage of the parity decomposition.

id: 1301.4471
title: Multi-photon nonclassical correlations in entangled squeezed vacuum states
authors: Bhaskar Kanseri, Timur Iskhakov, Georgy Rytikov, Maria Chekhova, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4471
abstract: Photon-number correlation measurements are performed on bright squeezed vacuum states using a standard Bell-test setup, and quantum correlations are observed for conjugate polarization-frequency modes. We further test the entanglement witnesses for these states and demonstrate the violation of the separability criteria, which infers that all the macroscopic Bell states, containing typically $10^6$ photons per pulse, are polarization entangled. The study also reveals the symmetry of macroscopic Bell states with respect to local polarization transformations.

id: 1301.4537
title: Quantum Information Transfer between Topological and Superconducting Qubits
authors: Fang-Yu Hong, Jing-Li Fu, Zhi-Yan Zhu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4537
abstract: We describe a scheme that enables a strong Jaynes-Cummings coupling between a topological qubit and a superconducting flux qubit. The coupling strength is dependent on the phase difference between two superconductors on a topological insulator and may be expediently controlled by a phase controller. With this coherent coupling and single-qubit rotations arbitrary unitary operations on the two-qubit hybrid system of topological and flux qubits can be performed. Numerical simulations show that quantum state transfer and entanglement distributing between the topological and superconducting flux qubits may be performed with high fidelity.

id: 1301.4544
title: Observation of the Quantum Zeno Effect on a Single Solid State Spin
authors: Janik Wolters, Max Strau?, Rolf Simon Schoenfeld, Oliver Benson
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 020101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4544
abstract: The quantum Zeno effect, i.e. the inhibition of coherent quantum dynamics by projective measurements is one of the most intriguing predictions of quantum mechanics. Here we experimentally demonstrate the quantum Zeno effect by inhibiting the microwave driven coherent spin dynamics between two ground state spin levels of the nitrogen vacancy center in diamond nano-crystals. Our experiments are supported by a detailed analysis of the population dynamics via a semi-classical model.

id: 1301.4547
title: Truncated channel representations for coupled harmonic oscillators
authors: Yingkai Ouyang, Wee Hao Ng
comments: 29 pages, 1 table, 3 figures. Slight modifications with section added on error correction
journal: 2013, Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 46, 205301 (20pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4547
abstract: Coupled quantum harmonic oscillators, studied by many authors using many different techniques over the decades, are frequently used toy-models to study open quantum systems. In this manuscript, we explicitly study the simplest oscillator model -- a pair of initially decoupled quantum harmonic oscillators interacting with a spring-like coupling, where the bath oscillator is initially in a thermal-like state. In particular, we treat the completely positive and trace preserving map on the system as a quantum channel, and study the truncation of the channel by truncating its Kraus set and its output dimension. We thereby derive the truncated transition amplitudes of the corresponding truncated channel. Finally, we give a computable approximation for these truncated transition amplitudes with explicit error bounds, and perform a case study of the oscillators in the off-resonant and weakly-coupled regime numerically. We demonstrate explicitly that the substantial leakage error can be mitigated via quantum error correction.

id: 1301.4559
title: Single atom trapping and control inside a nanosize photonic crystal cavity
authors: Elena Kuznetsova, Johannes Feist, Qimin Quan, Jeff D. Thompson, Tobias Tiecke, Susanne F. Yelin, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: This paper has been withdrawn to include some critical changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4559
abstract: We analyze a possibility to trap, control and load a single atom inside a nanosize cavity formed in a photonic crystal. We consider a 1D nanobeam crystal having two nearly degenerate localized modes with mode maxima at the central air gap, forming a cavity with a mode volume <\lambda^{3}. For this system we found that an atom can be trapped by a mode detuned from an atomic transition and controled by the second resonant mode. We show that atomic motion can be cooled using cavity-enhanced rf Sisyphus cooling. We also discuss how an atom can be loaded inside the nanosize crystal air gap from short-wavelength optical tweezers.

id: 1301.4580
title: Scattering distributions in the presence of measurement backaction
authors: James S. Douglas, Keith Burnett
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1109.0041
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 205301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4580
abstract: Scattering probe particles from a quantum system can provide experimental access to information about the system's state. However, measurement backaction and momentum transfer during scattering changes the state of the system, potentially destroying the state of the system we wish to probe. Here we investigate how to probe the system's initial state even in the presence of backaction and momentum transfer. We show that summing the scattering distributions of an ensemble of measurements reveals the initial state scattering pattern even when each of the individual measurements completely destroys the initial state. This procedure is effective provided the scattering takes place on a timescale that is short compared with the free evolution of the system.

id: 1301.4605
title: On an Extension Problem for Density Matrices
authors: Eric A. Carlen, Joel L. Lebowitz, Elliott H. Lieb
comments: 12 pages latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4605
abstract: We investigate the problem of the existence of a density matrix rho on the product of three Hilbert spaces with given marginals on the pair (1,2) and the pair (2,3). While we do not solve this problem completely we offer partial results in the form of some necessary and some sufficient conditions on the two marginals. The quantum case differs markedly from the classical (commutative) case, where the obvious necessary compatibility condition suffices, namely, trace_1 (rho_{12}) = \trace_3 (rho_{23}).

id: 1301.4645
title: Time-dependent localized Hartree-Fock potential
authors: V. U. Nazarov
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 165125 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4645
abstract: By minimizing the difference between the left- and the right-hand sides of the many-body time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation with the Slater-determinant wave-function, we derive a non-adiabatic and self-interaction free time-dependent single-particle effective potential which is the generalization to the time-dependent case of the localized Hartree-Fock potential. The new potential can be efficiently used within the framework of the time-dependent density-functional theory as we demonstrate by the evaluation of the wave-vector and frequency dependent exchange kernel $f_x(q,\omega)$ and the exchange shear modulus $\mu_x$ of the homogeneous electron gas.

id: 1301.4762
title: Operational measure of incompatibility of noncommuting observables
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Prabha Mandayam
comments: 7 pages; title modified and other minor changes, references added; journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042120 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4762
abstract: Uncertainty relations are often considered to be a measure of incompatibility of noncommuting observables. However, such a consideration is not valid in general, motivating the need for an alternate measure that applies to any set of noncommuting observables. We present an operational approach to quantifying incompatibility without invoking uncertainty relations. Our measure aims to capture the incompatibility of noncommuting observables as manifest in the non-orthogonality of their eigenstates. We prove that this measure has all the desired properties: it is zero when the observables commute, strictly greater than zero when they do not, and is maximum when they are mutually unbiased. We also obtain tight upper bounds on this measure for any N noncommuting observables and compute it exactly when the observables are mutually unbiased.

id: 1301.4787
title: Quantum Noise in Conventional Optical Heterodyne Devices
authors: Dechao He, Boya Xie, Yu Xiao, Sheng Feng
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to lack of sufficient data to support their conclusion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4787
abstract: By invoking the quantum theory of optical coherence, we theoretically show that the quantum noise in conventional optical heterodyne devices, which were previously identified as usual phase-insensitive amplifiers with additional quantum noise, is similar to that in optical homodyne devices, as verified by experimental data. Albeit more study is demanded to understand this result, it is certain that neither the uncertainty principle nor Caves's theorem for quantum noise of linear amplifiers sets a limit to the quantum noise of heterodyne devices.

id: 1301.4796
title: Strategy for implementing stabilizer-based codes on solid-state qubits
authors: Tetsufumi Tanamoto, Vladimir M. Stojanovi?, Christoph Bruder, Daniel Becker
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87 052305 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4796
abstract: We present a method for implementing stabilizer-based codes with encoding schemes of the operator quantum error correction paradigm, e.g., the "standard" five-qubit and CSS codes, on solid-state qubits with Ising or XY-type interactions. Using pulse sequences, we show how to induce the effective dynamics of the stabilizer Hamiltonian, the sum of an appropriate set of stabilizer operators for a given code. Within this approach, the encoded states (ground states of the stabilizer Hamiltonian) can be prepared without measurements and preserved against both the time evolution governed by the original qubit Hamiltonian, and energy-nonconserving errors caused by the environment.

id: 1301.4823
title: A note on the geometric interpretation of Bell's inequalities
authors: Paolo Dai Pra, Michele Pavon, Neeraja Sahasrabudhe
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4823
abstract: Using results of Pitowsky and Gupta, we show in a direct, elementary fashion that, in the case of three spins, Bell's inequalities indeed provide a representation of the tetrahedron of all spin correlation matrices as intersection of half-spaces.

id: 1301.4857
title: High Jaynes-Cummings pseudospins eigenstates in the homogeneous Tavis-Cummings model
authors: Marcin Dukalski, Yaroslav M. Blanter
comments: 5 pages (+11 pages supplementary material), 5 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4857
abstract: We show that a set of N identical qubits coupled to a single cavity resonator can be decomposed into a set of independent subsystems, which can be thought of as higher pseudospin generalisations of the Jaynes-Cummings model. We derive and analyse the solutions to the equations of motion and demonstrate unusual beating behaviour resulting from a new form of square-root-n-type non-linearity appearing within a pseudospin ladder. Furthermore, we propose a relative phase shift transformation which allows one to switch/initiate the multi-qubit state in a desired pseudospin configuration, and show how such transformations can be used to undo spontaneous single qubit decay. We discuss the conditions which justify the validity of the rotating wave approximation in an N-qubit system.

id: 1301.4893
title: An Introduction to the Quantum Backflow Effect
authors: J.M.Yearsley, J.J.Halliwell
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures. To appear in proceedings of the 2012 DICE Conference (edited by T.Elze)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4893
abstract: We present an introduction to the backflow effect in quantum mechanics -- the phenomenon in which a state consisting entirely of positive momenta may have negative current and the probability flows in the opposite direction to the momentum. We show that the effect is present even for simple states consisting of superpositions of gaussian wave packets, although the size of the effect is small. Inspired by the numerical results of Penz et al, we present a wave function whose current at any time may be computed analytically and which has periods of significant backflow, with a backwards flux equal to about 70 percent of the maximum possible backflow, a dimensionless number $c_{bm} \approx 0.04 $, discovered by Bracken and Melloy. This number has the unusual property of being independent of $\hbar$ (and also of all other parameters of the model), despite corresponding to a quantum-mechanical effect, and we shed some light on this surprising property by considering the classical limit of backflow. We conclude by discussing a specific measurement model in which backflow may be identified in certain measurable probabilities.

id: 1301.4918
title: Measurements of vacuum magnetic birefringence using permanent dipole magnets: the PVLAS experiment
authors: F. Della Valle, U. Gastaldi, G. Messineo, E. Milotti, R. Pengo, L. Piemontese, G. Ruoso, G. Zavattini
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4918
abstract: The PVLAS collaboration is presently assembling a new apparatus (at the INFN section of Ferrara, Italy) to detect vacuum magnetic birefringence (VMB). VMB is related to the structure of the QED vacuum and is predicted by the Euler-Heisenberg-Weisskopf effective Lagrangian. It can be detected by measuring the ellipticity acquired by a linearly polarised light beam propagating through a strong magnetic field. Using the very same optical technique it is also possible to search for hypothetical low-mass particles interacting with two photons, such as axion-like (ALP) or millicharged particles (MCP). Here we report results of a scaled-down test setup and describe the new PVLAS apparatus. This latter one is in construction and is based on a high-sensitivity ellipsometer with a high-finesse Fabry-Perot cavity ($>4\times 10^5$) and two 0.8 m long 2.5 T rotating permanent dipole magnets. Measurements with the test setup have improved by a factor 2 the previous upper bound on the parameter $A_e$, which determines the strength of the nonlinear terms in the QED Lagrangian: $A_e^{\rm (PVLAS)} < 3.3 \times 10^{-21}$ T$^{-2}$ 95% c.l. Furthermore, new laboratory limits have been put on the inverse coupling constant of ALPs to two photons and confirmation of previous limits on the fractional charge of millicharged particles is given.

id: 1301.4927
title: "Pretty strong" converse for the quantum capacity of degradable channels
authors: Ciara Morgan, Andreas Winter
comments: 17 pages, requires IEEEtran.cls. v2 has new title and updated references; several small errors are corrected and some explanations expanded. v3 is final version accepted by journal; improved presentation, more references and a few more typos corrected
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 60(1):317-333, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4927
abstract: We exhibit a possible road towards a strong converse for the quantum capacity of degradable channels. In particular, we show that all degradable channels obey what we call a "pretty strong" converse: When the code rate increases above the quantum capacity, the fidelity makes a discontinuous jump from 1 to at most 0.707, asymptotically. A similar result can be shown for the private (classical) capacity. Furthermore, we can show that if the strong converse holds for symmetric channels (which have quantum capacity zero), then degradable channels obey the strong converse: The above-mentioned asymptotic jump of the fidelity at the quantum capacity is then from 1 down to 0.

id: 1301.4956
title: How Fast Can Quantum Annealers Count?
authors: Itay Hen
comments: 12 pages. No figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 235304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4956
abstract: We outline an algorithm for the Quantum Counting problem using Adiabatic Quantum Computation (AQC). We show that using local adiabatic evolution, a process in which the adiabatic procedure is performed at a variable rate, the problem is solved with the same complexity as the analogous circuit-based algorithm, i.e., quadratically faster than the corresponding classical algorithm. The above algorithm provides further evidence for the potentially powerful capabilities of AQC as a paradigm for more efficient problem solving on a quantum computer, and may be used as the basis for solving more sophisticated problems.

id: 1301.4987
title: Strong Coupling between a Topological Qubit and a Nanomechanical Resonator
authors: Fang-Yu Hong, Huiqin Qian, Jing-Li Fu, Zhi-Yan Zhu, Li-zhen Jiang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1301.4537
journal: Physical Review A 87, 032339 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4987
abstract: We describe a scheme that enables a strong coherent coupling between a topological qubit and the quantized motion of a magnetized nanomechanical resonator. This coupling is achieved by attaching an array of magnetic tips to a namomechanical resonator under a quantum phase controller which coherently controls the energy gap of a topological qubit. Combined with single-qubit rotations the strong coupling enables arbitrary unitary transformations on the hybrid system of topological and mechanical qubits and may pave the way for the quantum information transfer between topological and optical qubits. Numerical simulations show that quantum state transfer and entanglement distributing between the topological and mechanical qubits may be accomplished with high fidelity.

id: 1301.5014
title: Quantum Key Distribution with Qubit Pairs
authors: Mohd Asad Siddiqui, Tabish Qureshi
comments: Final version, to appear in J. Quantum Inf. Sci. (2014)
journal: Journal of Quantum Information Science, 4, 129-132 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5014
abstract: We propose a new Quantum Key Distribution method in which Alice sends pairs of qubits to Bob, each in one of four possible states. Bob uses one qubit to generate a secure key and the other to generate an auxiliary key. For each pair he randomly decides which qubit to use for which key. The auxiliary key has to be added to Bob's secure key in order to match Alice's secure key. This scheme provides an additional layer of security over the standard BB84 protocol.

id: 1301.5015
title: Master Key Secured Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Tabish Qureshi, Tabish Shibli, Aditi Sheel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5015
abstract: A new scheme of Quantum Key Distribution is proposed using three entangled particles in a GHZ state. Alice holds a 3-particle source and sends two particles to Bob, keeping one with herself. Bob uses one particle to generate a secure key, and the other to generate a master-key. This scheme should prove to be harder to break in non-ideal situations as compared to the standard protocols BB84 and Eckert. The scheme uses the concept of Quantum Disentanglement Eraser. Extension to multi-partite scheme has also been investigated.

id: 1301.5037
title: Experimentally efficient methods for estimating the performance of quantum measurements
authors: Easwar Magesan, Paola Cappellaro
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure. Expanded details and typos corrected. Accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022127 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5037
abstract: Efficient methods for characterizing the performance of quantum measurements are important in the experimental quantum sciences. Ideally, one requires both a physically relevant distinguishability measure between measurement operations and a well-defined experimental procedure for estimating the distinguishability measure. Here, we propose the average measurement fidelity and error between quantum measurements as distinguishability measures. We present protocols for obtaining bounds on these quantities that are both estimable using experimentally accessible quantities and scalable in the size of the quantum system. We explain why the bounds should be valid in large generality and illustrate the method via numerical examples.

id: 1301.5040
title: About possible extensions of quantum theory
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Raffaele Romano
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure; in publication on Found. of Phys
journal: Foundations of Physics: Volume 43, Issue 7 (2013), Page 881-894
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5040
abstract: Recently it has been claimed that no extension of quantum theory can have improved predictive power, the statement following, according to the authors, from the assumptions of free will and of the correctness of quantum predictions concerning the correlations of measurement outcomes. Here we prove that the argument is basically awed by an inappropriate use of the assumption of free will. In particular, among other implications, the claim, if correct, would imply that Bohmian Mechanics is incompatible with free will. This statement, appearing in the paper, derives from the unjustified identification of free will with the no-signaling constraint and of a purely formal and not physical use of such a constraint.

id: 1301.5083
title: Improved Asymptotic Key Rate of the B92 Protocol
authors: Ryutaroh Matsumoto
comments: IEEEtran.sty, 3 pages, 1 figure. Submitted to IEEE ISIT 2013
journal: Proc. 2013 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, pp. 351-353
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5083
abstract: We analyze the asymptotic key rate of the single photon B92 protocol by using Renner's security analysis given in 2005. The new analysis shows that the B92 protocol can securely generate key at 6.5% depolarizing rate, while the previous analyses cannot guarantee the secure key generation at 4.2% depolarizing rate.

id: 1301.5095
title: Global phase and minimum time of quantum Fourier transform for qudits represented by quadrupole nuclei
authors: V. P. Shauro, V. E. Zobov
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures, significantly extended variant
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042320 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5095
abstract: We demonstrate the relation between a global phase of the quantum gate and the layout of energy levels of its effective Hamiltonian required for implementing the gate for minimum time. By an example of the quantum Fourier transform gate for a qudit represented by a quadrupole nucleus with the spin I = 1, the effective Hamiltonians and minimum implementation times for different global phases are found. Using numerical optimal control methods, the problem of the global phase in searching for the optimal pulse shape is considered in detail for the quantum Fourier transform gate at I = 1, 3/2, 2, and 5/2. It is shown that at the constrained control time the gradient algorithms can converge to the solutions corresponding to different global phases or the same global phase with different minimum times of the gate implementation.

id: 1301.5097
title: Actively switchable non-degenerate polarization entangled photon pair distribution in a dense wave-division multiplexing
authors: Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Yun-Kun Jiang, Dong-Sheng Ding, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Comments welcome
journal: Physics Review A 87, 045806(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5097
abstract: We have realized experimentally a non-degenerate polarization-entangled photon pair distribution in a commercial telecom dense wave-division multiplexing device (DWDM) with 8 channels. A promising point of this work is that the entangled photon pair is obtained via spontaneously parametric down conversion in a single type-II periodically poled KTiOPO4 crystal without usual post-selection. Another promising advantage is that we can actively control and switch the distribution of the photon pair between different channel pairs in DWDM at will. There is no crosstalk between the different channel pair because of a limited emission bandwidth of the source. High raw visibility of greater than 90% in Bell-type interference measurement in each channel pair and the CHSH inequality S parameter of 2.63+/-0.08 prove high entanglement of our source. Our work is helpful for building quantum communication networks.

id: 1301.5099
title: Double Electromagnetically Induced Transparency and Narrowing of Probe Absorption in a Ring Cavity with Nanomechanical Mirrors
authors: Sumei Huang
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 47, 055504 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5099
abstract: We study the effect of a strong coupling field on the absorptive property of a ring cavity with two mirrors oscillating at slightly different frequencies to a weak probe field. We observe double electromagnetically induced transparency windows separated by an absorption peak at line center in the output probe field under the action of a strong coupling field. We find that increasing driving power can broaden the two transparency windows, which results in narrowing of the central absorption peak. At high driving power, the linewidth of the sharp central absorption peak is approximately equal to the mechanical linewidth. We show the normal mode splitting in both the output probe field and the generated Stokes field. We also find that the suppression of the four-wave mixing process can be achieved on resonance.

id: 1301.5229
title: Majorization relations and entanglement generation in a beam splitter
authors: C. N. Gagatsos, O. Oreshkov, N. J. Cerf
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5229
abstract: We prove that a beam splitter, one of the most common optical components, fulfills several classes of majorization relations, which govern the amount of quantum entanglement that it can generate. First, we show that the state resulting from k photons impinging on a beam splitter majorizes the corresponding state with any larger photon number k'>k, implying that the entanglement monotonically grows with k. Then, we examine parametric infinitesimal majorization relations as a function of the beam-splitter transmittance, and find that there exists a parameter region where majorization is again fulfilled, implying a monotonic increase of entanglement by moving towards a balanced beam splitter. We also identify regions with a majorization default, where the output states become incomparable. In this latter situation, we find examples where catalysis may nevertheless be used in order to recover majorization. The catalyst states can be as simple as a path-entangled single-photon state or a two-mode vacuum squeezed state.

id: 1301.5266
title: General method for the security analysis in a quantum direct communication protocol
authors: Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak, Piotr Zawadzki
comments: 8 pages, 1 plot
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5266
abstract: We introduce a general approach for the analysis of a quantum direct communication protocol. The method is based on the investigation of the superoperator acting on a joint system of the communicating parties and the eavesdropper. The introduced method is more versatile than the approaches used so far as it permits to incorporate different noise models in a unified way. Moreover, it make use of a well grounded theory of quantum discrimination for the purpose of estimating the eavesdropper's information gain.

id: 1301.5310
title: Dual quantum information splitting with degenerate graph states
authors: Akshata Shenoy H., R. Srikanth, T. Srinivas
comments: 9 pages; no figures; typos fixed; added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5310
abstract: We propose a protocol for secret sharing, called dual quantum information splitting (DQIS), that reverses the roles of state and channel in standard quantum information splitting. In this method, a secret is shared via teleportation of a fiducial input state over an entangled state that encodes the secret in a graph state basis. By performing a test of violation of a Bell inequality on the encoded state, the legitimate parties determine if the violation is sufficiently high to permit distilling secret bits. Thus, the code space must be maximally and exclusively nonlocal. To this end, we propose two ways to obtain code words that are degenerate with respect to a Bell operator. The security of DQIS comes from monogamy of nonlocal correlations, which we illustrate by means of a simple single-qubit attack model. The nonlocal basis of security of our protocol makes it suitable for security in general monogamous theories and in the more stringent, device-independent cryptographic scenario.

id: 1301.5337
title: Multi-photon quantum interference with high visibility using multiport beam splitters
authors: M. Stobi¨½ska, W. Laskowski, M. Wie?niak, M. ?ukowski
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053828 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5337
abstract: Multi-photon states can be produced in multiple parametric down conversion (PDC) processes. The nonlinear crystal in such a case is pumped with high power. In theory, the more populated these states are, the deeper is the conflict with local realistic description. However, the interference contrast in multi-photon PDC experiments can be quite low for high pumping. We show how the contrast can be improved. The idea employs currently accessible optical devices, the multiport beam splitters. They are capable of splitting the incoming light in one input mode to $M$ output modes. Our scheme works as a POVM filter. It may provide a feasible CHSH-Bell inequality test, and thus can be useful in e.g. schemes reducing communication complexity.

id: 1301.5345
title: Quantum dynamics and kinematics from a statistical model selected by the principle of Locality
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: 33 pages, no figure, major changes, accepted for publication in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 53, 1276 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5345
abstract: Quantum mechanics predicts correlation between spacelike separated events which is widely argued to violate the principle of Local Causality. By contrast, here we shall show that the Schr\"odinger equation with Born's statistical interpretation of wave function and uncertainty relation can be derived from a statistical model of microscopic stochastic deviation from classical mechanics which is selected uniquely, up to a free parameter, by the principle of Local Causality. Quantization is thus argued to be physical and Planck constant acquires an interpretation as the average stochastic deviation from classical mechanics in a microscopic time scale. Unlike canonical quantization, the resulting quantum system always has a definite configuration all the time as in classical mechanics, fluctuating randomly along a continuous trajectory. The average of the relevant physical quantities over the distribution of the configuration are shown to be equal numerically to the quantum mechanical average of the corresponding Hermitian operators over a quantum state.

id: 1301.5364
title: Exploring Quantum Contextuality to Generate True Random Numbers
authors: D.-L. Deng, C. Zu, X.-Y. Chang, P.-Y. Hou, H.-X. Yang, Y.-X. Wang, L.-M. Duan
comments: Paper : 4.5 pages, 4 figures; Supplementary material : 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5364
abstract: Random numbers represent an indispensable resource for many applications. A recent remarkable result is the realization that non-locality in quantum mechanics can be used to certify genuine randomness through Bell's theorem, producing reliable random numbers in a device independent way. Here, we explore the contextuality aspect of quantum mechanics and show that true random numbers can be generated using only single qutrit (three-state systems) without entanglement and non-locality. In particular, we show that any observed violation of the Klyachko-Can-Binicioglu-Shumovsky (KCBS) inequality [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 20403 (2008)] provides a positive lower bound on genuine randomness. As a proof-of-concept experiment, we demonstrate with photonic qutrits that at least 5246 net true random numbers are generated with a confidence level of 99.9%.

id: 1301.5376
title: Robust Photon Entanglement via Quantum Interference in Optomechanical Interfaces
authors: Lin Tian
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, supplemental material at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 233602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5376
abstract: Entanglement is often the key element in quantum information protocols. Here, we present schemes to generate robust photon entanglement in optomechanical interfaces via quantum interference. The schemes explore the excitation of the Bogoliubov dark mode and the destructive quantum interference between the bright modes of the interface, similar to electromagnetically induced transparency, to eliminate leading-order effects of the mechanical noise. Both continuous-variable and discrete-state entanglements that are robust against the mechanical noise can be achieved.

id: 1301.5394
title: Quantum discord in spin systems with dipole-dipole interaction
authors: E. I. Kuznetsova, M. A. Yurishchev
comments: 11 pages, 6 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5394
abstract: The behavior of total purely quantum correlation (discord) in dimers consisting of dipolar-coupled spins 1/2 is studied. We found that the discord Q=0 at the absolute zero temperature. With increasing the temperature $T$, at first the quantum correlations in the system increase, smoothly reach the maximum, and then turn again into zero according to the asymptotic law $T^{-2}$. It is also shown that in absence of external magnetic field $B$, the classical correlation $C$ at $T\to0$ is, vice versa, maximal. Our calculations predict that in crystalline gypsum ${\rm CaSO_4\cdot2H_2O}$ the value of natural (B=0) quantum discord between nuclear spins of hydrogen atoms is maximal at the temperature of 0.644 $\mu$K, and for 1,2-dichloroethane ${\rm H_2ClC-CH_2Cl}$ the discord achieves the largest value at $T=0.517 \mu$K. In both cases, the discord equals $Q\approx0.083$ bit/dimer what is 8.3% of its upper limit in two-qubit systems. We estimate also that for gypsum at room temperature $Q\sim10^{-18}$ bit/dimer, and for 1,2-dichloroethane at T=90 K the discord is $Q\sim10^{-17}$ bit per a dimer.

id: 1301.5419
title: Quantum view on contextual logic of composite intelligent devices
authors: E. D. Vol
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5419
abstract: Based on the ideas of quantum theory of open systems (QTOS) we propose the consistent approach to study probabilistic many-valued propositional logic of intelligent devices that are composed from separate but interconnected logical units. In this preliminary communication we consider only the simplest example of such systems, namely, four- valued probabilistic logical device composed of two logical subsystems. We demonstrate that similar devices can generate two classes of probabilistic propositions:1) decomposable propositions, which in fact are equivalent to certain ordered pair of propositions in device subsystems and 2) indecomposable propositions which are connected with inherent logical interaction between device units. The indecomposable propositions are undoubtedly of greatest interest since they, as shown in the paper, provide powerful additional logical resource compared to standard parallel processing in composite intelligent systems. The contextual logic of composite devices proposed in this paper, as we believe, can be also used for analysis of highly organized systems in cognitive sciences specifically in neuropsychology and linguistics.

id: 1301.5452
title: Decoherence of a single-ion qubit immersed in a spin-polarized atomic bath
authors: L. Ratschbacher, C. Sias, L. Carcagni, J. M. Silver, C. Zipkes, M. K?hl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 160402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5452
abstract: We report on the immersion of a spin-qubit encoded in a single trapped ion into a spin-polarized neutral atom environment, which possesses both continuous (motional) and discrete (spin) degrees of freedom. The environment offers the possibility of a precise microscopic description, which allows us to understand dynamics and decoherence from first principles. We observe the spin dynamics of the qubit and measure the decoherence times (T1 and T2), which are determined by the spin-exchange interaction as well as by an unexpectedly strong spin-nonconserving coupling mechanism.

id: 1301.5459
title: Revival times at quantum phase transitions
authors: Francisco de los Santos, Elvira Romera
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013424 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5459
abstract: The concept of quantum revivals is extended to many-body systems and the implications of traversing a quantum phase transition are explored. By analyzing two different models, the vibron model for the bending of polyatomic molecules and the Dicke model for a quantum radiation field interacting with a system of two-level atoms, we show evidence of revival behavior for wave packets centered around energy levels as low as the fundamental state. Away from criticality, revival times exhibit smooth, nonsingular behavior, and are proportional to the system size. Upon approaching a quantum critical point, they diverge as a power law and scale with the system size, although the scaling is no longer linear.

id: 1301.5476
title: A covering probability amplitude formalism for classical and quantum mechanics, and possible new modes of non-classical behaviour
authors: Ram K.Varma
comments: 26 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5476
abstract: A generalized dynamics is postulated in a product space ${\cal R}^{3}\times {\cal S}^{1}$ with ${\cal R}^3$ representing the configuration space of a one particle system to which is attached the U(1) fibre bundle represented by the manifold ${\cal S}^{1}$. The manifold ${\cal S}^{1}$ is chosen to correspond to the action phase, with the action being the principal function corresponding to the associated classical dynamical system. A Hilbert space representation of the flow equation representing the dynamics in the above product space is then obtained, which is found to yield a probability amplitude formalism in terms of a generalized set of equations of the Schr\"odinger form which constitutes a covering formalism for both quantum and classical mechanics. Being labelled by an integral index $n$, the equation corresponding to $n=1$ is identified with the Schr\"odinger equation, while equations corresponding to $n\rightarrow large$ yield the classical dynamics through the WKB limit. Equations with lower indices n=2,3,4,... predict the existence of new modes of non-classical behaviour, the observational implications of which are discussed. Some preliminary experimental results are presented which point to the existence of these modes of non-classical behaviour.

id: 1301.5534
title: Quantum simulation of Kibble-Zurek mechanism with a semiconductor electron charge qubit
authors: Cheng Zhou, Li Wang, Tao Tu, Hai-Ou Li, Guang-Can Guo, Hong-Wen Jiang, Guo-Ping Guo
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022337 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5534
abstract: The Kibble-Zurek mechanism provides a description of the topological structure occurring in the symmetry breaking phase transitions, which may manifest as the cosmological strings in the early universe or vortex lines in the superfulid. A particularly intriguing analogy between Kibble-Zurek mechanism and a text book quantum phenomenon, Landau-Zener transition has been discovered, but is difficult to observe up to now. In recent years, there has been broad interest in quantum simulations using different well-controlled physical setups, in which full tunability allows access to unexplored parameter regimes. Here we demonstrate a proof-of-principle quantum simulation of Kibble-Zurek mechanism using a single electron charge qubit in double quantum dot, set to behave as Landau-Zener dynamics. We measure the qubit states as a function of driven pulse velocity and successfully reproduce Kibble-Zurek like dependence of topological defect density on the quench rate. The high-level controllability of semiconductor two-level system make it a platform to test the key elements of topological defect formation process and shed a new insight on the aspect of non-equilibrium phase transitions.

id: 1301.5537
title: Playing a quantum game on polarization vortices
authors: A. R. C. Pinheiro, C. E. R. Souza, D. P. Caetano, J. A. O. Huguenin, A. G. M. Schmidt, A. Z. Khoury
comments: 4 pages, 3 figure captions, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5537
abstract: The quantum mechanical approach to the well known prisoners dilemma, one of the basic examples to illustrate the concepts of Game Theory, is implemented with a classical optical resource, nonquantum entanglement between spin and orbital degrees of freedom of laser modes. The concept of entanglement is crucial in the quantum version of the game, which brings novel features with a richer universe of strategies. As we show, this richness can be achieved in a quite unexpected context, namely that of paraxial spin-orbit modes in classical optics.

id: 1301.5538
title: Three-qubit topological phase on entangled photon pairs
authors: Markus Johansson, Antonio Z. Khoury, Kuldip Singh, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: 10 pages, 8 figure captions, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5538
abstract: We propose an experiment to observe the topological phases associated with cyclic evolutions, generated by local SU(2) operations, on three-qubit entangled states prepared on different degrees of freedom of entangled photon pairs. The topological phases reveal the nontrivial topological structure of the local SU(2) orbits. We describe how to prepare states showing different topological phases, and discuss their relation to entanglement. In particular, the presence of a $\pi/2$ phase shift is a signature of genuine tripartite entanglement in the sense that it does not exist for two-qubit systems.

id: 1301.5539
title: Fractional topological phase on spatially encoded photonic qudits
authors: A. Z. Khoury, L. E. Oxman, B. Marques, A. Matoso, S. P¨¢dua
comments: 7 pages, 5 figure captions, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5539
abstract: We discuss the appearance of fractional topological phases on cyclic evolutions of entangled qudits encoded on photonic degrees of freedom. We show how the spatial correlations between photons generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion can be used to evidence the multiple topological phases acquired by entangled qudits and the role played by the Hilbert space dimension. A realistic experimental proposal is presented with numerical predictions of the expected results.

id: 1301.5554
title: Classical bifurcation in a quadrupolar NMR system
authors: A. G. Araujo-Ferreira, R. Auccaise, R. S. Sarthour, I. S. Oliveira, T. J. Bonagamba, I. Roditi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053605 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5554
abstract: The Josephson Junction model is applied to the experimental implementation of classical bifurcation in a quadrupolar Nuclear Magnetic Resonance system. There are two regimes, one linear and one nonlinear which are implemented by the radio-frequency term and the quadrupolar term of the Hamiltonian of a spin system respectively. Those terms provide an explanation of the symmetry breaking due to bifurcation. Bifurcation depends on the coexistence of both regimes at the same time in different proportions. The experiment is performed on a lyotropic liquid crystal sample of an ordered ensemble of $^{133}$Cs nuclei with spin $I=7/2$ at room temperature. Our experimental results confirm that bifurcation happens independently of the spin value and of the physical system. With this experimental spin scenario, we confirm that a quadrupolar nuclei system could be described analogously to a symmetric two--mode Bose--Einstein condensate.

id: 1301.5610
title: Routing quantum information in spin chains
authors: Simone Paganelli, Salvatore Lorenzo, Tony J. G. Apollaro, Francesco Plastina, Gian Luca Giorgi
comments: added references in v2
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062309 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5610
abstract: Two different models for performing efficiently routing of a quantum state are presented. Both cases involve an XX spin chain working as data bus and additional spins that play the role of sender and receivers, one of which is selected to be the target of the quantum state transmission protocol via a coherent quantum coupling mechanism making use of local/global magnetic fields. Quantum routing is achieved, in the first of the models considered, by weakly coupling the sender and the receiver to the data bus. In the second model, strong magnetic fields acting on additional spins located between the sender/receiver and the data bus allow us to perform high fidelity routing.

id: 1301.5624
title: Non-Markovian Equilibration Controlled by Symmetry Breaking
authors: Nicholas Chancellor, Christoph Petri, Stephan Haas
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, (incl. supp. mat) spectral arguments about universality moved to main text and expanded at request of referee, supp. mat expanded significantly
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 184302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5624
abstract: We study the effects of symmetry breaking on non-Markovian dynamics in various system-bath arrangements. It is shown that by breaking certain symmetries features signaling non-Markovian time evolution disappear within a finite time t_{g}. We demonstrate numerically that the scaling of t_{g} with the symmetry breaking strength is different for various types of symmetry. We provide a mathematical explanation for these differences related to the spectrum of the total system-bath Hamiltonian and provide arguments that the scaling properties of t_{g} should be universal.

id: 1301.5646
title: Mutual information area laws for thermal free fermions
authors: H. Bernigau, M. J. Kastoryano, J. Eisert
comments: 42 pages, 4 figures, replaced by final version
journal: J. Stat. Mech. P02008 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5646
abstract: We provide a rigorous and asymptotically exact expression of the mutual information of translationally invariant free fermionic lattice systems in a Gibbs state. In order to arrive at this result, we introduce a novel frameworkfor computing determinants of Toeplitz operators with smooth symbols, and for treating Toeplitz matrices with system size dependent entries. The asymptotically exact mutual information for a partition of the one-dimensional lattice satisfies an area law, with a prefactor which we compute explicitly. As examples, we discuss the fermionic XX model in one dimension and free fermionic models on the torus in higher dimensions in detail. Special emphasis is put onto the discussion of the temperature dependence of the mutual information, scaling like the logarithm of the inverse temperature, hence confirming an expression suggested by conformal field theory. We also comment on the applicability of the formalism to treat open systems driven by quantum noise. In the appendix, we derive useful bounds to the mutual information in terms of purities. Finally, we provide a detailed error analysis for finite system sizes. This analysis is valuable in its own right for the abstract theory of Toeplitz determinants.

id: 1301.5660
title: New symmetry in the Rabi model
authors: Bartlomiej Gardas, Jerzy Dajka
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5660
abstract: It is recognised that, apart from the total energy conservation, there is a nonlocal $\mathbb{Z}_2$ and a somewhat hidden symmetry in this model. Conditions for the existence of this observable, its form, and its explicit construction are presented.

id: 1301.5661
title: Initial states of qubit-boson models leading to conserved quantities
authors: Bartlomiej Gardas, Jerzy Dajka
comments: J. Phys. A, accepted
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 235301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5661
abstract: It is possible to prepare a composite qubit-environment system so that its time evolution will guarantee the conservation of a preselected qubit's observable. In general, this observable is not associated with a symmetry. The latter may not even be present in the subsystem. The initial states which lead to such a quantity conserved dynamics form a subspace of the qubit-environment space of states. General construction of this subspace is presented and illustrated by two examples. The first one is the exactly soluble Jaynes-Cummings model and the second is the multi-photon Rabi model.

id: 1301.5690
title: Robust continuous-variable entanglement of microwave photons with cavity electromechanics
authors: Peng-Bo Li, Shao-Yan Gao, Fu-Li Li
comments: To appear in PRA, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043802 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5690
abstract: We investigate the controllable generation of robust photon entanglement with a circuit cavity electromechanical system, consisting of two superconducting coplanar waveguide cavities (CPWC's) capacitively coupled by a nanoscale mechanical resonator (MR). We show that, with this electromechanical system, two-mode continuous-variable entanglement of cavity photons can be engineered deterministically either via coherent control on the dynamics of the system, or through a dissipative quantum dynamical process. The first scheme, operating in the strong coupling regime, explores the excitation of the cavity Bogoliubov modes, and is insensitive to the initial thermal noise. The second one is based on the reservoir-engineering approach, which exploits the mechanical dissipation as a useful resource to perform ground state cooling of two delocalized cavity Bogoliubov modes. The achieved amount of entanglement in both schemes is determined by the relative ratio of the effective electromechanical coupling strengths, which thus can be tuned and made much lager than that in previous studies.

id: 1301.5698
title: Dissipation-driven two-mode mechanical squeezed states in optomechanical systems
authors: Huatang Tan, Gaoxiang Li, P. Meystre
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5698
abstract: In this paper, we propose two quantum optomechanical arrangements that permit the dissipation-enabled generation of steady two-mode mechanical squeezed states. In the first setup, the mechanical oscillators are placed in a two-mode optical resonator while in the second setup the mechanical oscillators are located in two coupled single-mode cavities. We show analytically that for an appropriate choice of the pump parameters, the two mechanical oscillators can be driven by cavity dissipation into a stationary two-mode squeezed vacuum, provided that mechanical damping is negligible. The effect of thermal fluctuations is also investigated in detail and show that ground state pre-cooling of the oscillators in not necessary for the two-mode squeezing. These proposals can be realized in a number of optomechanical systems with current state-of-the-art experimental techniques.

id: 1301.5704
title: The coevent formulation of quantum theory
authors: Petros Wallden
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure. In v2 equation 7 corrected, figure added and references modified
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 442, 012044 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5704
abstract: Understanding quantum theory has been a subject of debate from its birth. Many different formulations and interpretations have been proposed. Here we examine a recent novel formulation, namely the coevents formulation. It is a histories formulation and has as starting point the Feynman path integral and the decoherence functional. The new ontology turns out to be that of a coarse-grained history. We start with a quantum measure defined on the space of histories, and the existence of zero covers rules out single-history as potential reality (the Kochen Specker theorem casted in histories form is a special case of a zero cover). We see that allowing coarse-grained histories as potential realities avoids the previous paradoxes, maintains deductive non-contextual logic (alas non-Boolean) and gives rise to a unique classical domain. Moreover, we can recover the probabilistic predictions of quantum theory with the use of the Cournot's principle. This formulation, being both a realist formulation and based on histories, is well suited conceptually for the purposes of quantum gravity and cosmology.

id: 1301.5710
title: Characteristics Analysis and State Transfer for non-Markovian Open Quantum Systems
authors: Shuang Cong, Longzhen Hu, Fei Yang, Jianxiu Liu
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures
journal: Acta Automatica Sinica, 2013, 39(4), 360-370
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5710
abstract: The weak-coupled two-level open quantum system described by non-Markovian Time-convolution-less master equation is investigated in this paper. The cut-off frequency, coupling constant and transition frequency, which impact on the system's decay rate, coherence factor and purity, are investigated. The appropriate parameters used in system simulation experiments are determined by comparing analysis results of different values of parameters for the effects of system performance. The control laws used to transfer the system states are designed on the basis of the Lyapunov stability theorem. Numerical simulation experiments are implemented under the MATLAB environment. The features of the free evolution trajectory of the non-Markovian systems and the states transfer from a pure state to a desired pure state under the action of the proposed control laws are studied, respectively. By comparing the experimental results, the effectiveness of the proposed quantum Lyapunov control method applied to the state transfer in non-Markovian open quantum systems is verified. Meanwhile, the influences of different control parameters and cut-off frequencies on the system performance are analyzed.

id: 1301.5714
title: Entropic inequalities as a necessary and sufficient condition to noncontextuality and locality
authors: Rafael Chaves
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5714
abstract: The assumption of local realism in a Bell locality scenario imposes non-trivial conditions on the Shannon entropies of the associated probability distributions, expressed by linear entropic Bell inequalities. In principle, these entropic inequalities provide necessary but not sufficient criteria for the existence of a local hidden variable model reproducing the correlations, as, for example, the paradigmatic nonlocal PR-box is entropically not different from a classically correlated box. In this paper we show that for the n-cycle scenario, entropic inequalities completely characterize the set of local correlations. In particular, every nonsignalling box which violates the CHSH inequality -- including the PR-box -- can be locally modified so that it also violates the entropic version of CHSH inequality. As we show, any nonlocal probabilistic model when appropriately mixed with a local model, violates an entropic inequality, thus evidencing a very peculiar kind of nonlocality. As the n-cycle captures equally well both the notion of local realism introduced by Bell and that of noncontextuality presented by the Kochen-Specker theorem, the results are also valid for noncontextuality scenarios.

id: 1301.5733
title: Quantum metrology with open dynamical systems
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: v1: submitted to ISIT 2013, v2: updated with new results on detection bounds, v3: minor update, submitted, v4: accepted by New J. Phys
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 073005 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5733
abstract: This paper studies quantum limits to dynamical sensors in the presence of decoherence. A modified purification approach is used to obtain tighter quantum detection and estimation error bounds for optical phase sensing and optomechanical force sensing. When optical loss is present, these bounds are found to obey shot-noise scalings for arbitrary quantum states of light under certain realistic conditions, thus ruling out the possibility of asymptotic Heisenberg error scalings with respect to the average photon flux under those conditions. The proposed bounds are expected to be approachable using current quantum optics technology.

id: 1301.5758
title: Generalized Householder Transformations for the Complex Symmetric Eigenvalue Problem
authors: J. H. Noble, M. Lubasch, U. D. Jentschura
comments: 14 pages; RevTeX; font mismatch in Eqs. (3) and (15) is eliminated
journal: Eur.Phys.J. Plus 128 (2013) 93
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5758
abstract: We present an intuitive and scalable algorithm for the diagonalization of complex symmetric matrices, which arise from the projection of pseudo--Hermitian and complex scaled Hamiltonians onto a suitable basis set of "trial" states. The algorithm diagonalizes complex and symmetric (non--Hermitian) matrices and is easily implemented in modern computer languages. It is based on generalized Householder transformations and relies on iterative similarity transformations T -> T' = Q^T T Q, where Q is a complex and orthogonal, but not unitary, matrix, i.e, Q^T equals Q^(-1) but Q^+ is different from Q^(-1). We present numerical reference data to support the scalability of the algorithm. We construct the generalized Householder transformations from the notion that the conserved scalar product of eigenstates Psi_n and Psi_m of a pseudo-Hermitian quantum mechanical Hamiltonian can be reformulated in terms of the generalized indefinite inner product [integral of the product Psi_n(x,t) Psi_m(x,t) over dx], where the integrand is locally defined, and complex conjugation is avoided. A few example calculations are described which illustrate the physical origin of the ideas used in the construction of the algorithm.

id: 1301.5763
title: Non-unital non-Markovianity of quantum dynamics
authors: Jing Liu, Xiao-Ming Lu, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042103 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5763
abstract: We show that Breuer-Laine-Piilo (BLP) non-Markovianity cannot capture the dynamical information in the non-unital aspect of the quantum dynamics. Moreover, we provide a measure on the effect of the non-unitality of quantum processes on the infinitesimal non-divisibility. This measure can be used as a supplement to BLP non-Markovianity for non-unital quantum processes. A measure on the degree of the non-unital behavior of quantum processes is also given in this paper.

id: 1301.5767
title: Three-dimensional ghost imaging ladar
authors: Wenlin Gong, Chengqiang Zhao, Jia Jiao, Enrong Li, Mingliang Chen, Hui Wang, Wendong Xu, Shensheng Han
comments: 8pages, 4figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5767
abstract: Compared with two-dimensional imaging, three-dimensional imaging is much more advantageous to catch the characteristic information of the target for remote sensing. We report a range-resolving ghost imaging ladar system together with the experimental demonstration of three-dimensional remote sensing with a large field of view. The experiments show that, by measuring the correlation function of intensity fluctuations between two light fields, a three-dimensional map at about 1.0 km range with 25 cm resolution in lateral direction and 60 cm resolution in axial direction has been achieved by time-resolved measurements of the reflection signals.

id: 1301.5846
title: Measuring ultrasmall time delays of light by joint weak measurements
authors: Gr¨¦gory Str¨¹bi, C. Bruder
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures (Published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 083605 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5846
abstract: We propose to use weak measurements away from the weak-value amplification regime to carry out precision measurements of time delays of light. Our scheme is robust to several sources of noise that are shown to only limit the relative precision of the measurement. Thus, they do not set a limit on the smallest measurable phase shift contrary to standard interferometry and weak-value based measurement techniques. Our idea is not restricted to phase-shift measurements and could be used to measure other small effects using a similar protocol.

id: 1301.5866
title: Remote implementation of partially unknown operations and its entanglement costs
authors: Shu-Hui Luo, An-Min Wang
comments: 9 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5866
abstract: We present the generalized version of Wang's protocol[A.M.Wang, Phys.Rev.A 74,032317 (2006)] for the remote implementation(sometimes referred to as quantum remote control) of partially unknown quantum operations. The protocol only requires no more than half of the entanglements used in Bidirectional Quantum State Teleportation. We also propose a protocol for another form of quantum remote control. It can remotely implement a unitary operation which is a combination of the projective representations of a group. Moreover, we prove that the Schmidt rank of the entanglements cannot not be less than the number of controlled parameters of the operations, which for the first time gives a lower bound on entanglement costs in remote implementation of quantum operations.

id: 1301.5875
title: Distillation of Multi-Party Non-Locality With and Without Partial Communication
authors: Helen Ebbe, Stefan Wolf
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Proceedings of International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT) 2013, 739-743, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5875
abstract: Non-local correlations are one of the most fascinating consequences of quantum physics from the point of view of information: Such correlations, although not allowing for signaling, are unexplainable by pre-shared information. The correlations have applications in cryptography, communication complexity, and sit at the very heart of many attempts of understanding quantum theory -- and its limits -- better in terms of classical information. In these contexts, the question is crucial whether such correlations can be distilled, i.e., whether weak correlations can be used for generating (a smaller amount of) stronger. Whereas the question has been studied quite extensively for bipartite correlations (yielding both pessimistic and optimistic results), only little is known in the multi-partite case. We show that a natural generalization of the well-known Popsecu-Rohrlich box can be distilled, by an adaptive protocol, to the algebraic maximum. We use this result further to show that a much bigger class of correlations, including all purely three-partite correlations, can be distilled from arbitrarily weak to maximal strength with partial communication, i.e., using only a subset of the channels required for the creation of the same correlation from scratch. In other words, we show that arbitrarily weak non-local correlations can have a "communication value" in the context of the generation of maximal non-locality.

id: 1301.5950
title: Reply to "Comment on 'Detecting Non-Abelian Geometric Phases with Three-Level ¦« Atoms' "
authors: Y. X. Du, Z. Y. Xue, X. D. Zhang, H. Yan
comments: 3 pages,1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5950
abstract: In this reply, we address the comment by Ericsson and Sjoqvist on our paper [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 84}, 034103 (2011)]. We point out that the zero gauge field is not the evidence of trivial geometric phase for a non-Abelian SU(2) gauge field. Furthermore, the recalculation shows that the non-Abelian geometric phase we proposed in the three-level $\Lambda$ system is indeed experimentally detectable.

id: 1301.6005
title: Entropic uncertainty relation for pointer-based simultaneous measurements of conjugate observables
authors: Raoul Heese, Matthias Freyberger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012123 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6005
abstract: We present a family of entropic uncertainty relations for pointer-based simultaneous measurements of conjugate observables. The lower bounds of these relations explicitly incorporate the influence of the measurement apparatus. We achieve this by using a mathematical theorem which states that the information entropy of convoluted probability distributions is bound from below. As a consequence of these results we can straightforwardly show that appropriately squeezed states are minimal entropy states for simultaneous measurements.

id: 1301.6015
title: On the complexity of controlling quantum many-body dynamics
authors: T. Caneva, A. Silva, R. Fazio, S. Lloyd, T. Calarco, S. Montangero
comments: 4.5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042322 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6015
abstract: We demonstrate that arbitrary time evolutions of many-body quantum systems can be reversed even in cases when only part of the Hamiltonian can be controlled. The reversed dynamics obtained via optimal control --contrary to standard time-reversal procedures-- is extremely robust to external sources of noise. We provide a lower bound on the control complexity of a many-body quantum dynamics in terms of the dimension of the manifold supporting it, elucidating the role played by integrability in this context.

id: 1301.6051
title: Optimal working points for continuous-variable quantum channels
authors: Imran Khan, Christoffer Wittmann, Nitin Jain, Nathan Killoran, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus, Christoph Marquardt, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 5 pages, 4 (colour) figures; v2 changes: Added PACS numbers, corrections to citations/page numbers, minor rephrasing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6051
abstract: The most important ability of a quantum channel is to preserve the quantum properties of transmitted quantum states. We experimentally demonstrate a continuous-variable system for efficient benchmarking of quantum channels. We probe the tested quantum channels for a wide range of experimental parameters such as amplitude, phase noise and channel lengths up to 40 km. The data is analyzed using the framework of effective entanglement. We subsequently are able to deduce an optimal point of operation for each quantum channel with respect to the rate of distributed entanglement. This procedure is a promising candidate for benchmarking quantum nodes and individual links in large quantum networks of different physical implementations.

id: 1301.6063
title: Arbitrarily Small Amounts of Correlation for Arbitrarily Varying Quantum Channels
authors: Holger Boche, Janis Noetzel
comments: 25 pages, no figures. Considerably revised version, accepted for publication in J. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6063
abstract: As our main result we show that, in order to achieve the randomness assisted message - and entanglement transmission capacities of a finite arbitrarily varying quantum channel it is not necessary that sender and receiver share (asymptotically perfect) common randomness. Rather, it is sufficient that they each have access to an unlimited amount of uses of one part of a correlated bipartite source. This access might be restricted to an arbitrary small (nonzero) fraction per channel use, without changing the main result. We investigate the notion of common randomness. It turns out that this is a very costly resource - generically, it cannot be obtained just by local processing of a bipartite source. This result underlines the importance of our main result. Also, the asymptotic equivalence of the maximal- and average error criterion for classical message transmission over finite arbitrarily varying quantum channels is proven. At last, we prove a simplifed symmetrizability condition for finite arbitrarily varying quantum channels.

id: 1301.6095
title: Persistent control of a superconducting qubit by stroboscopic measurement feedback
authors: Philippe Campagne-Ibarcq, Emmanuel Flurin, Nicolas Roch, David Darson, Pascal Morfin, Mazyar Mirrahimi, Michel H. Devoret, Francois Mallet, Benjamin Huard
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures and 1 table. Supplementary information available as an ancilla file
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 021008 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6095
abstract: Making a system state follow a prescribed trajectory despite fluctuations and errors commonly consists in monitoring an observable (temperature, blood-glucose level...) and reacting on its controllers (heater power, insulin amount ...). In the quantum domain, there is a change of paradigm in feedback since measurements modify the state of the system, most dramatically when the trajectory goes through superpositions of measurement eigenstates. Here, we demonstrate the stabilization of an arbitrary trajectory of a superconducting qubit by measurement based feedback. The protocol benefits from the long coherence time ($T_2>10 \mu$s) of the 3D transmon qubit, the high efficiency (82%) of the phase preserving Josephson amplifier, and fast electronics ensuring less than 500 ns delay. At discrete time intervals, the state of the qubit is measured and corrected in case an error is detected. For Rabi oscillations, where the discrete measurements occur when the qubit is supposed to be in the measurement pointer states, we demonstrate an average fidelity of 85% to the targeted trajectory. For Ramsey oscillations, which does not go through pointer states, the average fidelity reaches 75%. Incidentally, we demonstrate a fast reset protocol allowing to cool a 3D transmon qubit down to 0.6% in the excited state.

id: 1301.6098
title: Dynamics of a superconducting qubit coupled to the quantized cavity field: a unitary transformation approach
authors: Dagoberto S. Freitas, A. Vidiella-Barranco, J. A. Roversi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6098
abstract: We present a novel approach for studying the dynamics of a superconducting qubit in a cavity. We succeed in linearizing the Hamiltonian through the application of an appropriate unitary transformation followed by a rotating wave approximation (RWA). For certain values of the parameters involved, we show that it is possible to obtain a a Jaynes-Cummings type Hamiltonian. As an example, we show the existence of super-revivals for the qubit inversion.

id: 1301.6107
title: On the correction of anomalous phase oscillation in entanglement witnesses using quantum neural networks
authors: E.C. Behrman, R.E.F. Bonde, J.E. Steck, J.F. Behrman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6107
abstract: Entanglement of a quantum system depends upon relative phase in complicated ways, which no single measurement can reflect. Because of this, entanglement witnesses are necessarily limited in applicability and/or utility. We propose here a solution to the problem using quantum neural networks. A quantum system contains the information of its entanglement; thus, if we are clever, we can extract that information efficiently. As proof of concept, we show how this can be done for the case of pure states of a two-qubit system, using an entanglement indicator corrected for the anomalous phase oscillation. Both the entanglement indicator and the phase correction are calculated by the quantum system itself acting as a neural network.

id: 1301.6153
title: Paradoxes of the Aharonov-Bohm and the Aharonov-Casher effects
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: To be published in Yakir Aharonov 80th birthday Festschrift
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6153
abstract: For a believer in locality of Nature, the Aharonov-Bohm effect and the Aharonov-Casher effect are paradoxes. I discuss these and other Aharonov's paradoxes and propose a local explanation of these effects. If the solenoid in the Aharonov-Bohm effect is treated quantum mechanically, the effect can be explained via local interaction between the field of the electron and the solenoid. I argue that the core of the Aharonov-Bohm and the Aharonov-Casher effects is that of quantum entanglement: the quantum wave function describes all systems together.

id: 1301.6154
title: Peculiar Features of Entangled States with Post-Selection
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Shmuel Nussinov, Sandu Popescu, Lev Vaidman
comments: To be published in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6154
abstract: We consider quantum systems in entangled states post-selected in non-entangled states. Such systems exhibit unusual behavior, in particular when weak measurements are performed at intermediate times.

id: 1301.6193
title: Continuous Measurement and Stochastic Methods in Quantum Optical Systems
authors: Robert L. Cook
comments: PhD Dissertation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6193
abstract: This dissertation studies the statistics and modeling of a quantum system probed by a coherent laser field. We focus on an ensemble of qubits dispersively coupled to a traveling wave light field. The first research topic explores the quantum measurement statistics of a quasi-monochromatic laser probe. We identify the shortest timescale that successive measurements approximately commute. Our model predicts that for a probe in the near infrared, noncommuting measurement effects are apparent for subpicosecond times. The second dissertation topic attempts to find an approximation to a conditional master equation, which maps identical product states to identical product states. Through a technique known as projection filtering, we find such a equation for an ensemble of qubits experiencing a diffusive measurement of a collective angular momentum projection, and global rotations. We then test the quality of the approximation through numerical simulations. In the presence of strong randomized rotations, the approximation reproduces the exact expectation values to within 95%. The final topic applies the projection filter to the problem of state reconstruction. We find an initial state estimate based on a single continuous measurement of an identically prepared atomic ensemble. Given the ability to make a continuous collective measurement and simultaneously applying time varying controls, it is possible to find an accurate estimate given based upon a single measurement realization. Here we explore the fundamental limits of this protocol by studying an idealized model for pure qubits, which is limited only by measurement backaction. Using the exact dynamics to produce simulated measurements, we then numerically search for a maximum likelihood estimate based on the approximate expression. Our estimation technique nearly achieves an average fidelity bound set by an optimum POVM.

id: 1301.6200
title: Atomic radiative corrections without QED: role of the zero-point field
authors: Ana Mar¨ªa Cetto, Luis de la Pe?a, Andrea Vald¨¦s-Hern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6200
abstract: We derive the atomic radiative corrections predicted by QED using an alternative approach that offers the advantage of physical clarity and transparency. The element that gives rise to these corrections is the fluctuating zero-point radiation field (ZPF) of average energy (hbar \omega)/2 per mode, which - in contrast with QED - is taken here as a primordial real entity in permanent interaction with matter and responsible for its quantization. After briefly recalling how quantum mechanics itself emerges as a result of the balance between the ZPF and radiation reaction, the most important higher-order effects of the radiative terms on the atom are studied. The nonrelativistic QED formulas for the lifetimes and the Lamb shift, as well as the corrections to the latter due to external factors that modify the vacuum field, are thus obtained in a self-consistent approach and without the need to resort to second quantization to the present order of approximation.

id: 1301.6214
title: Knot Logic and Topological Quantum Computing with Majorana Fermions
authors: Louis H. Kauffman
comments: LaTeX document, 124 pages, 91 figures. To appear in "Logic and Algebraic Structures in Quantum Computing and Information", Lecture Notes in Logic, J. Chubb, J. Chubb, Ali Eskandarian, and V. Harizanov, editors, Cambridge University Press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6214
abstract: This paper is an introduction to relationships between quantum topology and quantum computing. We take a foundational approach, showing how knots are related not just to braiding and quantum operators, but to quantum set theoretical foundations and algebras of fermions. We show how the operation of negation in logic, seen as both a value and an operator, can generate the fusion algebra for a Majorana fermion, a particle that is its own anti-particle and interacts with itself either to annihilate itself or to produce itself. We call negation in this mode the mark, as it operates on itself to change from marked to unmarked states. The mark viewed recursively as a simplest discrete dynamical system naturally generates the fermion algebra, the quaternions and the braid group representations related to Majorana fermions. The paper begins with these fundmentals. They provide a conceptual key to many of the models that appear later in the paper. In particular, the Fibonacci model for topological quantum computing is seen to be based on the fusion rules for a Majorana fermion and these in turn are the interaction rules for the mark seen as a logical particle. It requires a shift in viewpoint to see that the operator of negation can also be seen as a logical value. The quaternions emerge naturally from the reentering mark. All these models have their roots in unitary representations of the Artin braid group to the quaternions.

id: 1301.6266
title: Stochastic resonance driven by quantum shot noise in superradiant Raman scattering
authors: D. Witthaut
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 225501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6266
abstract: We discuss the effects of noise on the timing and strength of superradiant Raman scattering from a small dense sample of atoms. We demonstrate a genuine quantum stochastic resonance effect, where the atomic response is largest for an appropriate quantum noise level. The peak scattering intensity per atom assumes its maximum for a specific non-zero value of quantum noise given by the square root of the number of atoms.

id: 1301.6276
title: Suppression of the radiative decay of atomic coherence in squeezed vacuum
authors: K. W. Murch, S. J. Weber, K. M. Beck, Eran Ginossar, I. Siddiqi
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature 499, 62-65 (04 July 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6276
abstract: Quantum fluctuations of the electromagnetic vacuum are responsible for physical effects such as the Casimir force and the radiative decay of atoms, and set fundamental limits on the sensitivity of measurements. Entanglement between photons can produce correlations that result in a reduction of these fluctuations below the vacuum level allowing measurements that surpass the standard quantum limit in sensitivity. Here we demonstrate that the radiative decay rate of an atom that is coupled to quadrature squeezed electromagnetic vacuum can be reduced below its natural linewidth. We observe a two-fold reduction of the transverse radiative decay rate of a superconducting artificial atom coupled to continuum squeezed vacuum generated by a Josephson parametric amplifier, allowing the transverse coherence time T_2 to exceed the vacuum decay limit of 2T_1. We demonstrate that the measured radiative decay dynamics can be used to tomographically reconstruct the Wigner distribution of the the itinerant squeezed state. Our results are the first confirmation of a canonical prediction of quantum optics and open the door to new studies of the quantum light-matter interaction.

id: 1301.6305
title: Probabilistic simulation of mesoscopic "Schr?dinger cat" states
authors: Bogdan Opanchuk, Laura Rosales-Z¨¢rate, Margaret D. Reid, Peter D. Drummond
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6305
abstract: We carry out probabilistic phase-space sampling of mesoscopic Schr\"odinger cat quantum states, demonstrating multipartite Bell violations for up to 60 qubits. We use states similar to those generated in photonic and ion-trap experiments. These results show that mesoscopic quantum superpositions are directly accessible to probabilistic sampling, and we analyze the properties of sampling errors. We also demonstrate dynamical simulation of super-decoherence in ion traps. Our computer simulations can be either exponentially faster or slower than experiment, depending on the correlations measured.

id: 1301.6423
title: Validity of the time-dependent variational approximation to the Gaussian wavepacket method applied to double-well systems
authors: Hideo Hasegawa
comments: 23 pages, 16 figures, final version accepted in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378 (2014) 691
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6423
abstract: We have examined the validity of the time-dependent variational approximation (TDVA) to the Gaussian wavepacket method (GWM) for quantum double-well (DW) systems, by using the quasi-exact spectral method (SM). Comparisons between results of wavefunctions, averages of position and momentum, the auto-correlation function, and an uncertainty product calculated by SM and TDVA have been made. It has been shown that a given initial Gaussian wavepacket in SM is quickly deformed at $t > 0$ where a wavepacket cannot be expressed by a {\it single} Gaussian, and that assumptions on averages of higher-order fluctuations in TDVA are not justified. These results cast some doubt on an application of TDVA to DW systems. Gaussian wavepacket dynamics in anharmonic potential systems is studied also.

id: 1301.6482
title: Quantum discord and quantum phase transition in spin-1/2 frustrated Heisenberg chain
authors: Chu-Hui Fan, Heng-Na Xiong, Yixiao Huang, Zhe Sun
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 13, No. 5&6 (2013) 0452-0468
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6482
abstract: By using the concept of the quantum discord (QD), we study the spin-1/2 antiferromagnetic Heisenberg chain with next-nearest-neighbor interaction. Due to the SU(2) symmetry and $Z_{2}$ symmetry in this system, we obtain the analytical result of the QD and its geometric measure (GMQD), which is determined by the two-site correlators. For the 4-site and 6-site cases, the connection between GMQD (QD) and the eigenenergies was revealed. From the analytical and numerical results, we find GMQD (QD) is an effective tool in detecting both the first-order and the infinite-order quantum-phase-transition points for the finite-size systems. Moreover, by using the entanglement excitation energy and a universal frustration measure we consider the frustration properties of the system and find a nonlinear dependence of the GMQD on the frustration.

id: 1301.6500
title: Symmetric logarithmic derivative for general n-level systems and the quantum Fisher information tensor for three-level systems
authors: Elisa Ercolessi, Michele Schiavina
comments: Final published version, minor changes
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 377, Issues 34-36, 1 November 2013, Pages 1996-2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6500
abstract: Within a geometrical context, we derive an explicit formula for the computation of the symmetric logarithmic derivative for arbitrarily mixed quantum systems, provided that the structure constants of the associated unitary Lie algebra are known. To give examples of this procedure, we first recover the known formulae for two-level mixed and three-level pure state systems and then apply it to the novel case of U(3), that is for arbitrarily mixed three-level systems (q-trits). Exploiting the latter result, we finally calculate an expression for the Fisher tensor for a q-trit considering also all possible degenerate subcases.

id: 1301.6551
title: Annotated Interview with a QBist in the Making
authors: N.David Mermin
comments: 17pages,no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6551
abstract: These are my published answers to the seventeen questions posed by Max Schlosshauer in his 2011 book "Elegance and Enigma: the Quantum Interviews". I have inserted thirty footnotes into those answers, commenting on them from the perspective of subsequent insights I acquired during six weeks in March and April of 2012 with Chris Fuchs and Ruediger Schack at the Stellenbosch Institute for Advanced Study. Aside from the footnotes and a few introductory paragraphs, the text is identical to my contributions to the Schlosshauer volume.

id: 1301.6567
title: Atomic clock transitions in silicon-based spin qubits
authors: Gary Wolfowicz, Alexei M. Tyryshkin, Richard E. George, Helge Riemann, Nikolai V. Abrosimov, Peter Becker, Hans-Joachim Pohl, Mike L. W. Thewalt, Stephen A. Lyon, John J. L. Morton
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6567
abstract: A major challenge in using spins in the solid state for quantum technologies is protecting them from sources of decoherence. This can be addressed, to varying degrees, by improving material purity or isotopic composition for example, or active error correction methods such as dynamic decoupling, or even combinations of the two. However, a powerful method applied to trapped ions in the context of frequency standards and atomic clocks, is the use of particular spin transitions which are inherently robust to external perturbations. Here we show that such `clock transitions' (CTs) can be observed for electron spins in the solid state, in particular using bismuth donors in silicon. This leads to dramatic enhancements in the electron spin coherence time, exceeding seconds. We find that electron spin qubits based on CTs become less sensitive to the local magnetic environment, including the presence of 29Si nuclear spins as found in natural silicon. We expect the use of such CTs will be of additional importance for donor spins in future devices, mitigating the effects of magnetic or electric field noise arising from nearby interfaces.

id: 1301.6577
title: Experimental Observation of Quantum Holographic Imaging
authors: Xin-Bing Song, De-Qin Xu, Hai-Bo Wang, Jun Xiong, Xiangdong Zhang, De-Zhong Cao, Kaige Wang
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6577
abstract: We report the first experimental observation of quantum holographic imaging with entangled photon pairs, generated in a spontaneous parametric down-conversion process. The signal photons play both roles of "object wave" and "reference wave" in holography but are recorded by a point detector providing only encoding information, while the idler photons travel freely and are locally manipulated with spatial resolution. The holographic image is formed by the two-photon correlation measurement, although both the signal and idler beams are incoherent. According to the detection regime of the signal photons, we analyze three types of quantum holography schemes: point detection, coherent detection and bucket detection, which can correspond to classical holography using a point source, a plane-wave coherent source and a spatially incoherent source, respectively. Our experiment demonstrates that the two-photon holography in the point detection regime is equivalent to the one-photon holography using a point source. Physically, the quantum holography experiment verifies that a pair of non-commutable physical quantities, the amplitude and phase components of the field operator, can be nonlocally measured through two-photon entanglement.

id: 1301.6588
title: Tradeoffs for reliable quantum information storage in surface codes and color codes
authors: Nicolas Delfosse
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6588
abstract: The family of hyperbolic surface codes is one of the rare families of quantum LDPC codes with non-zero rate and unbounded minimum distance. First, we introduce a family of hyperbolic color codes. This produces a new family of quantum LDPC codes with non-zero rate and with minimum distance logarithmic in the blocklength. Second, we study the tradeoff between the length n, the number of encoded qubits k and the distance d of surface codes and color codes. We prove that kd^2 is upper bounded by C(log k)^2n, where C is a constant that depends only on the row weight of the parity-check matrix. Our results prove that the best asymptotic minimum distance of LDPC surface codes and color codes with non-zero rate is logarithmic in the length.

id: 1301.6617
title: A Concise Formula for Generalized Two-Qubit Hilbert-Schmidt Separability Probabilities
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures, final version to appear in J. Physics A. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1203.4498, arXiv:1209.1613
journal: J. Phys. A-Math. Theor., Vol. 46 (2013), pp. 445302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6617
abstract: We report major advances in the research program initiated in "Moment-Based Evidence for Simple Rational-Valued Hilbert-Schmidt Generic 2 x 2 Separability Probabilities" (J. Phys. A, 45, 095305 [2012]). A highly succinct separability probability function P(alpha) is put forth, yielding for generic (9-dimensional) two-rebit systems, P(1/2) = 29/64, (15-dimensional) two-qubit systems, P(1) = 8/33 and (27-dimensional) two-quater(nionic)bit systems, P(2)=26/323. This particular form of P(alpha) was obtained by Qing-Hu Hou and colleagues by applying Zeilberger's algorithm ("creative telescoping") to a fully equivalent--but considerably more complicated--expression containing six 7F6 hypergeometric functions (all with argument 27/64 = (3/4)^3). That hypergeometric form itself had been obtained using systematic, high-accuracy probability-distribution-reconstruction computations. These employed 7,501 determinantal moments of partially transposed four-by-four density matrices, parameterized by alpha = 1/2, 1, 3/2,...,32. From these computations, exact rational-valued separability probabilities were discernible. The (integral/half-integral) sequences of 32 rational values, then, served as input to the Mathematica FindSequenceFunction command, from which the initially obtained hypergeometric form of P(alpha) emerged.

id: 1301.6656
title: Device-Independent Test for Genuine Multipartite Entanglement
authors: A. Gabriel, ?. Rudnicki, B.C. Hiesmayr
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 073033 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6656
abstract: We investigate a-priori detection probabilities of genuine multipartite entanglement (GME). Even if one does not have knowledge about the basis in which a state is produced by a source, how a channel decoheres it or about the very working of the detectors used, we find that it is possible to detect GME with reasonably high probability in a feasible fashion. We show that by means of certain separability criteria, GME can be detected in a measurement-device-independent way. Our method provides several applications whenever e.g. state tomography is not possible or too demanding, and is a tool to investigate security issues in multi-particle quantum cryptographical protocols.

id: 1301.6658
title: Minimum Relative Entropy for Quantum Estimation: Feasibility and General Solution
authors: Mattia Zorzi, Francesco Ticozzi, Augusto Ferrante
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6658
abstract: We propose a general framework for solving quantum state estimation problems using the minimum relative entropy criterion. A convex optimization approach allows us to decide the feasibility of the problem given the data and, whenever necessary, to relax the constraints in order to allow for a physically admissible solution. Building on these results, the variational analysis can be completed ensuring existence and uniqueness of the optimum. The latter can then be computed by standard, efficient standard algorithms for convex optimization, without resorting to approximate methods or restrictive assumptions on its rank.

id: 1301.6838
title: Reveal quantum correlation in complementary bases
authors: Shengjun Wu, Zhihao Ma, Zhihua Chen, Sixia Yu
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 4036 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6838
abstract: An essential feature of genuine quantum correlation is the simultaneous existence of correlation in complementary bases. We reveal this feature of quantum correlation by defining measures based on invariance under a basis change. For a bipartite quantum state, the classical correlation is the maximal correlation present in a certain optimum basis, while the quantum correlation is characterized as a series of residual correlations in the mutually unbiased bases. Compared with other approaches to quantify quantum correlation, our approach gives information-theoretical measures that directly reflect the essential feature of quantum correlation.

id: 1301.6880
title: Adaptive Continuous Homodyne Phase Estimation Using Robust Fixed-Interval Smoothing
authors: Shibdas Roy, Ian R. Petersen, Elanor H. Huntington
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, Proceedings of the 2013 American Control Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6880
abstract: Adaptive homodyne estimation of a continuously evolving optical phase using time-symmetric quantum smoothing has been demonstrated experimentally to provide superior accuracy in the phase estimate compared to adaptive or nonadaptive estimation using filtering alone. Here, we illustrate how the mean-square error in the adaptive phase estimate may be further reduced below the standard quantum limit for the stochastic noise process considered by using a Rauch-Tung-Striebel smoother as the estimator, alongwith an optimal Kalman filter in the feedback loop. Further, the estimation using smoothing can be made robust to uncertainties in the underlying parameters of the noise process modulating the system phase to be estimated. This has been done using a robust fixed-interval smoother designed for uncertain systems satisfying a certain integral quadratic constraint.

id: 1301.6924
title: Single-photon-level optical storage in a solid-state spin-wave memory
authors: N. Timoney, I. Usmani, P. Jobez, M. Afzelius, N. Gisin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022324 Published 20 August 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6924
abstract: A long-lived quantum memory is a firm requirement for implementing a quantum repeater scheme. Recent progress in solid-state rare-earth-ion-doped systems justifies their status as very strong candidates for such systems. Nonetheless an optical memory based on spin-wave storage at the single-photon-level has not been shown in such a system to date, which is crucial for achieving the long storage times required for quantum repeaters. In this letter we show that it is possible to execute a complete atomic frequency comb (AFC) scheme, including spin-wave storage, with weak coherent pulses of $\bar{n} = 2.5 \pm 0.6$ photons per pulse. We discuss in detail the experimental steps required to obtain this result and demonstrate the coherence of a stored time-bin pulse. We show a noise level of $(7.1 \pm 2.3)10^{-3}$ photons per mode during storage, this relatively low-noise level paves the way for future quantum optics experiments using spin-waves in rare-earth-doped crystals.

id: 1301.6969
title: Quantum control in foundational experiments
authors: Lucas C. Celeri, Rafael M. Gomes, Radu Ionicioiu, Thomas Jennewein, Robert B. Mann, Daniel R. Terno
comments: Contribution to the Proceedings of the workshop Horizons of Quantum Physics, Taipei, 14-18.10.2012. Published version: two new authors, modified and streamlined presentation, new section on quantum control in complementary position/momentum measurements
journal: Found. Phys. 44, 576 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6969
abstract: We describe a new class of experiments designed to probe the foundations of quantum mechanics. Using quantum controlling devices, we show how to attain a freedom in temporal ordering of the control and detection of various phenomena. We consider wave-particle duality in the context of quantum-controlled and the entanglement-assisted delayed-choice experiments. Then we discuss a quantum-controlled CHSH experiment and measurement of photon's transversal position and momentum in a single set-up.

id: 1301.6970
title: Non-classicality of the molecular vibrations assisting exciton energy transfer at room temperature
authors: Edward J. O'Reilly, Alexandra Olaya-Castro
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Nature Communications 5, 3012 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6970
abstract: Advancing the debate on quantum effects in light-initiated reactions in biology requires clear identification of non-classical features that these processes can exhibit and utilise. Here we show that in prototype dimers present in a variety of photosynthetic antennae, efficient vibration-assisted energy transfer in the subpicosecond timescale and at room temperature can manifest and benefit from non-classical fluctuations of collective pigment motions. Non-classicality of initially thermalised vibrations is induced via coherent exciton-vibration interactions and is unambiguously indicated by negativities in the phase-space quasi-probability distribution of the effective collective mode coupled to the electronic dynamics. These quantum effects can be prompted upon incoherent input of excitation. Our results therefore suggest that investigation of the non-classical properties of vibrational motions assisting excitation and charge transport, photoreception and chemical sensing processes could be a touchstone for revealing a role for non-trivial quantum phenomena in biology.

id: 1301.7007
title: Pretending to factor large numbers on a quantum computer
authors: John A. Smolin, Graeme Smith, Alex Vargo
comments: 15 pages including 3 figures and supplementary material
journal: Nature 499, 163-165 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7007
abstract: Shor's algorithm for factoring in polynomial time on a quantum computer\cite{Shor} gives an enormous advantage over all known classical factoring algorithm. We demonstrate how to factor products of large prime numbers using a compiled version of Shor's quantum factoring algorithm. Our technique can factor all products of $p,q$ such that $p,q$ are unequal primes greater than two, runs in constant time, and requires only two coherent qubits. This illustrates that the correct measure of difficulty when implementing Shor's algorithm is not the size of number factored, but the length of the period found.

id: 1301.7012
title: Lagrangian-Only Quantum Theory
authors: K.B. Wharton
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7012
abstract: Despite the importance of the path integral, there have been relatively few attempts to look to the Lagrangian for a more realistic framework that might underlie quantum theory. While such realism is not available for the standard path integral or quantum field theory, a promising alternative is to only consider field histories for which the Lagrangian density is always zero. With this change, it appears possible to replace amplitudes with equally-weighted probabilities. This paper demonstrates a proof-of-principle for this approach, using a toy Lagrangian that corresponds to an arbitrary spin state. In this restricted framework one can derive both the Born rule and its limits of applicability. The fact that the Lagrangian obeys future boundary constraints also results in the first continuous, spacetime-based, hidden-variable description of a Bell-inequality-violating system.

id: 1301.7021
title: Extracting quantum work statistics and fluctuation theorems by single qubit interferometry
authors: R. Dorner, S. R. Clark, L. Heaney, R. Fazio, J. Goold, V. Vedral
comments: 4.5 pages. 2 Figures. See related paper "Measuring the characteristic function of the work distribution" by L. Mazzola et al. This version - additional analysis undertaken
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 230601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7021
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to verify the quantum non-equilibrium fluctuation relations using current technology. Specifically, we show that the characteristic function of the work distribution for a non-equilibrium quench of a general quantum system can be extracted from Ramsey interferometry of a single probe qubit. Our scheme paves the way for the full characterisation of non-equilibrium processes in a variety of complex quantum systems ranging from single particles to many-body atomic systems and spin chains. We demonstrate our idea using a time-dependent quench of the motional state of a trapped ion, where the internal pseudo-spin provides a convenient probe qubit.

id: 1301.7030
title: Measuring the characteristic function of the work distribution
authors: Laura Mazzola, Gabriele De Chiara, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 6 pages; 2 figures; RevTeX4; See related paper by R. Dorner et al, arXiv:1301.7021; This version: more results added; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 230602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7030
abstract: We propose an interferometric setting for the ancilla-assisted measurement of the characteristic function of the work distribution following a time-dependent process experienced by a quantum system. We identify how the configuration of the effective interferometer is linked to the symmetries enjoyed by the Hamiltonian ruling the process and provide the explicit form of the operations to implement in order to accomplish our task. We finally discuss two physical settings, based on hybrid opto-/electro-mechanical devices, where the theoretical proposals discussed in our work could find an experimental demonstration.

id: 1301.7051
title: On radiation reaction and the [x,p ] commutator for an accelerating charge
authors: H. Fearn
comments: 8 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7051
abstract: We formally state the connection between the relativistic part of the radiation reaction and the Poynting Robertson force term, $-Rv/c^2$, where $R$ is power radiated. Then we address the question, does $[x,p]=i \hb$ for an accelerating charge ? The full radiation reaction term is used, which includes the relativistic term (von Laue vector.). We show that the full relativistic radiation reaction term must be taken into account if a commutation relation between $x$ and $p$ is to hold for an electron under uniform acceleration, consistent with the expectation values of $x^2$ and $p^2$.

id: 1301.7053
title: Delayed Twin Observables Are They a Fundamental Concept in Quantum Mechanics?
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 29 pages, no Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7053
abstract: Opposite-subsystem twin events and twin observables, studied previously in the context of distant correlations, are first generalized to pure states of not-necessarily-composite systems, and afterwards they are further generalized to delayed twins that are due to unitary evolution of the quantum system. The versatile aspects of delayed twin observables are studied in terms of necessary and sufficient conditions to make possible various applications. Three of these are sketched: Preparation of some quantum experiments, easy solution of a puzzle in an important Scully et al. real experiment, and, finally, it is shown that exact measurement in quantum mechanics is an example of opposite-subsystem delayed twins in bipartite pure states.

id: 1301.7061
title: Quantum discord and its geometric measure with death entanglement in correlated dephasing two qubits system
authors: Abdel-Baset A. Mohamed
comments: 
journal: Quant. Inf. Rev. 1, No. 1, 1-7 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7061
abstract: The quantum correlations, including entanglement and discord with its geometric measure, and classical correlation are studied for a bipartite partition of a open or closed quantum system. It is found that the purity of the initial state plays an important role in the dynamics of quantum and classical correlations. In the dephasing model, the quantum correlations loss and the classical correlation gain are instantaneously happen. While, the purity of the initial state destroys the quantum correlations which is resulted by the unitary interaction. Therefore, with the purity parameter, a particular region in which there is no state have quantum correlations can be determined.

id: 1301.7100
title: Scalable universal holonomic quantum computation realized with an adiabatic quantum data bus and potential implementation using superconducting flux qubits
authors: Nicholas Chancellor, Stephan Haas
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, typos in equations fixed in new draft, section reviewing quantum data bus in appendix with new figure added at request of referee
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042321 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7100
abstract: In this paper we examine the use of an adiabatic quantum data transfer protocol to build a universal quantum computer. Single qubit gates are realized by using a bus protocol to transfer qubits of information down a spin chain with a unitary twist. This twist arises from altered couplings on the chain corresponding to unitary rotations performed on one region of the chain. We show how a controlled NOT gate can be realized by using a control qubit with Ising type coupling. The method discussed here can be extended to non-adiabatic quantum bus protocols. We also examine the potential of realizing such a quantum computer by using superconducting flux qubits.

id: 1301.7107
title: Surface code implementation of block code state distillation
authors: Austin G. Fowler, Simon J. Devitt, Cody Jones
comments: 26 pages, 28 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1939 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7107
abstract: State distillation is the process of taking a number of imperfect copies of a particular quantum state and producing fewer better copies. Until recently, the lowest overhead method of distilling states |A>=(|0>+e^{i\pi/4}|1>)/\sqrt{2} produced a single improved |A> state given 15 input copies. New block code state distillation methods can produce k improved |A> states given 3k+8 input copies, potentially significantly reducing the overhead associated with state distillation. We construct an explicit surface code implementation of block code state distillation and quantitatively compare the overhead of this approach to the old. We find that, using the best available techniques, for parameters of practical interest, block code state distillation does not always lead to lower overhead, and, when it does, the overhead reduction is typically less than a factor of three.

id: 1301.7110
title: Entanglement-free certification of entangling gates
authors: Marcelo de Almeida, Mile Gu, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Matthew A. Broome, Timothy C. Ralph, Andrew G. White
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042323, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7110
abstract: Not all quantum protocols require entanglement to outperform their classical alternatives. The nonclassical correlations that lead to this quantum advantage are conjectured to be captured by quantum discord. Here we demonstrate that discord can be explicitly used as a resource: certifying untrusted entangling gates without generating entanglement at any stage. We implement our protocol in the single-photon regime, and show its success in the presence of high levels of noise and imperfect gate operations. Our technique offers a practical method for benchmarking entangling gates in physical architectures in which only highly-mixed states are available.

id: 1301.7114
title: Global quantum correlations in finite-size spin chains
authors: S. Campbell, L. Mazzola, G. De Chiara, T. J. G Apollaro, F. Plastina, Th. Busch, M. Paternostro
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, RevTeX4, Published Version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 043033 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7114
abstract: We perform an extensive study of the properties of global quantum correlations in finite-size one-dimensional quantum spin models at finite temperature. By adopting a recently proposed measure for global quantum correlations [C. C. Rulli, and M. S. Sarandy, Phys. Rev. A, 84, 042109 (2011)], called global discord, we show that critical points can be neatly detected even for many-body systems that are not in their ground state. We consider the transverse Ising model, the cluster-Ising model where three-body couplings compete with an Ising-like interaction, and the nearest-neighbor XX Hamiltonian in transverse magnetic field. These models embody our canonical examples showing the sensitivity of global quantum discord close to criticality. For the Ising model, we find a universal scaling of global discord with the critical exponents pertaining to the Ising universality class.

id: 1301.7144
title: Robust Phase Estimation of Squeezed State
authors: Shibdas Roy, Ian R. Petersen, Elanor H. Huntington
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures, Proceedings of CLEO:QELS 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7144
abstract: Optimal phase estimation of a phase-squeezed quantum state of light has been recently shown to beat the coherent-state limit. Here, the estimation is made robust to uncertainties in underlying parameters using a robust fixed-interval smoother.

id: 1301.7193
title: Transverse Entanglement of Biphotons
authors: Felix Just, Andrea Cavanna, Maria V. Chekhova, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 083015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7193
abstract: We measure the transverse entanglement of photon pairs on their propagation from the near to the far field of spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC). The Fedorov ratio, depending on the widths of conditional and unconditional intensity measurements, is shown to be only able to characterize entanglement in the near and far field zones of the source. Therefore we also follow a different approach. By evaluating the first-order coherence of a subsystem of the state we can quantify its entanglement. Unlike previous measurements, which determine the Fedorov ratio via intensity correlations, our setup is sensitive to both phase and modulus of the biphoton state and thus always grants experimental access to the full transverse entanglement of the SPDC state. It is shown theoretically that this scheme represents a direct measurement of the Schmidt number.

id: 1301.7219
title: Resonance Features of the Conductance of Open Billiards with the Spin-Orbit Interaction
authors: Alexander Malyshev, Galina Isupova
comments: Slightly corrected version of paper published in JETP Letters, 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: G.G. Isupova, A.I. Malyshev, JETP Letters, Vol. 94, Issue 7, pp. 556-559 (2011) Original Russian version: G.G. Isupova, A.I. Malyshev, Pis'ma v ZhETF, Vol. 94, No. 7, pp. 597-600 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7219
abstract: The transport properties of a circular billiard with attached channels, which is an open system, have been studied in the presence of the Dresselhaus and Rashba spin-orbit interactions. It has been shown that this interaction leads to the appearance of additional Fano resonances in the energy dependence of the conductance, the width of which is proportional to the fourth power of the spin-orbit coupling constant.

id: 1301.7240
title: Upper bound and shareability of quantum discord based on entropic uncertainty relations
authors: Ming-Liang Hu, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, the final version as that published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 014105 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7240
abstract: By using the quantum-memory-assisted entropic uncertainty relation (EUR), we derive a computable tight upper bound for quantum discord, which applies to an arbitrary bipartite state. Detailed examples show that this upper bound is tighter than other known bounds in a wide regime. Furthermore, we show that for any tripartite pure state, the quantum-memory-assisted EUR imposes a constraint on the shareability of quantum correlations among the constituent parties. This conclusion amends the well accepted result that quantum discord is not monogamous.

id: 1301.7278
title: Towards a definition of the Quantum Ergodic Hierarchy: Kolmogorov and Bernoulli systems
authors: Mario Castagnino, Ignacio Gomez
comments: 
journal: Physica A, 393, 112-131 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7278
abstract: In this paper we translate the two higher levels of the Ergodic Hierarchy [1], the Kolmogorov level and the Bernoulli level, to quantum language. Moreover, this paper can be considered as the second part of [2]. As in paper [2], we consider the formalism where the states are positive functionals on the algebra of observables and we use the properties of the Wigner transform [3]. We illustrate the physical relevance of the Quantum Ergodic Hierarchy with two emblematic examples of the literature: the Casati-Prosen model [4], [5] and the kicked rotator [6], [7], [8].

id: 1301.7306
title: The Casimir Effect for Arbitrary Optically Anisotropic Materials
authors: Jos¨¦ C. Torres-Guzm¨¢n, W. Luis Moch¨¢n
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7306
abstract: We extend a fictitious-cavity approach to calculate the Casimir effect for cavities bounded by flat anisotropic materials. We calculate the energy, force and torque in terms only of the optical coefficients of the walls of the cavity. We calculate the Casimir effect at zero and finite temperature for some simple systems. As a non trivial application, we calculate the torque between a semi-infinite anisotropic plate and an anisotropic film. We study the effect of the film thickness in the torque and find an optimal width that maximizes the torque.

id: 1301.7351
title: Why quantum computing is hard - and quantum cryptography is not provably secure
authors: Ross Anderson, Robert Brady
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7351
abstract: Despite high hopes for quantum computation in the 1990s, progress in the past decade has been slow; we still cannot perform computation with more than about three qubits and are no closer to solving problems of real interest than a decade ago. Separately, recent experiments in fluid mechanics have demonstrated the emergence of a full range of quantum phenomena from completely classical motion. We present two specific hypotheses. First, Kuramoto theory may give a basis for geometrical thinking about entanglement. Second, we consider a recent soliton model of the electron, in which the quantum-mechanical wave function is a phase modulation of a carrier wave. Both models are consistent with one another and with observation. Both models suggest how entanglement and decoherence may be related to device geometry. Both models predict that it will be difficult to maintain phase coherence of more than three qubits in the plane, or four qubits in a three-dimensional structure. The soliton model also shows that the experimental work which appeared to demonstrate a violation of Bell's inequalities might not actually do so; regardless of whether it is a correct description of the world, it exposes a flaw in the logic of the Bell tests. Thus the case for the security of EPR-based quantum cryptography has just not been made. We propose experiments in quantum computation to test this. Finally, we examine two possible interpretations of such soliton models: one is consistent with the transactional interpretation of quantum mechanics, while the other is an entirely classical model in which we do not have to abandon the idea of a single world where action is local and causal.

id: 1301.7475
title: Non-Gaussian continuous-variable entanglement and steering
authors: M. K. Olsen, J. F. Corney
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7475
abstract: Two Kerr-squeezed optical beams can be combined in a beamsplitter to produce non-Gaussian continuous-variable entangled states. We characterize the non-Gaussian nature of the output by calculating the third-order cumulant of quadrature variables, and predict the level of entanglement that could be generated by evaluating the Duan-Simon and Reid Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen criteria. These states have the advantage over Gaussian states and non-Gaussian measurement schemes in that the well known, efficient and proven technology of homodyne detection may be used for their characterisation. A physical demonstration maintaining the important features of the model could be realised using two optical fibres, beamsplitters, and homodyne detection.

id: 1301.7494
title: Preservation of quantum correlation between separated nitrogen-vacancy centers embedded in photonic crystal cavities
authors: W. L. Yang, Jun-Hong An, Chengjie Zhang, M. Feng, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022312 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7494
abstract: We investigate the non-Markovian dynamics of quantum correlation between two initially entangled nitrogen-vacancy centers (NVC) embedded in photonic crystal cavities (PCC). We find that a finite quantum correlation is preserved even asymptotically when the transition frequency of the NVC is within the band gap of the PCC, which is quantitatively different from the result of approaching zero under the Born-Markovian approximation. In addition, once the transition frequency of NVC is far beyond the band gap of the PCC, the quantum correlation initially prepared in NVC will be fully transferred to the reservoirs in the long-time limit. Our result reveals that the interplay between the non-Markovian effect of the structured reservoirs and the existence of emitter-field bound state plays an essential role in such quantum correlation preservation. This feature may open new perspectives for devising active decoherence-immune solid-state optical devices.

id: 1301.7500
title: Non-zero total correlation means non-zero quantum correlation
authors: Bo Li, Lin Chen, Heng Fan
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physics Letters A 378, 1249 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7500
abstract: We investigated the super quantum discord based on weak measurements. The super quantum discord is an extension of the standard quantum discord defined by projective measurements and also describes the quantumness of correlations. We provide some equivalent conditions for zero super quantum discord by using quantum discord, classical correlation and mutual information. In particular, we find that the super quantum discord is zero only for product states, which have zero mutual information. This result suggests that non-zero correlations can always be detected using the quantum correlation with weak measurements. As an example, we present the assisted state-discrimination method.

id: 1301.7537
title: Complex quantum hydrodynamics with teleportation
authors: R. Tsekov
comments: To appear in New Adv. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7537
abstract: It is shown how the Schrodinger equation can be transformed to a complex quantum Navier-Stokes equation with imaginary dilatational viscosity. The self-diffusion in quantum gases is described by this complex quantum hydrodynamics and quantum Marangoni effect is introduced. The density matrix operator and Wigner function equations, corresponding to quantum hydrodynamics, are described. Finally, the quantum teleportation in time is also discussed.

id: 1301.7545
title: A testable prediction of the no-signalling condition using a variant of the EPR-Bohm example
authors: Dipankar Home, Ashutosh Rai, A. S. Majumdar
comments: 7 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 377, 540 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7545
abstract: Predictive power of the no-signalling condition (NSC) is demonstrated in a testable situation involving a non-ideal Stern-Gerlach (SG) device in one of the two wings of the EPR-Bohm entangled pairs. In this wing, for two types of measurement in the other wing, we consider the spin state of a selected set of particles that are confined to a particular half of the plane while emerging from the SG magnetic field region. Due to non-idealness of the SG setup, this spin state will have superposing components involving a relative phase for which a testable quantitative constraint is obtained by invoking NSC, thereby providing a means for precision testing of this fundamentally significant principle.

id: 1301.7551
title: Quantum measurements and maps preserving strict convex combinations and pure states
authors: Lihua Yang, Jinchuan Hou
comments: 24 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7551
abstract: In this paper, a characterization of maps between quantum states that preserve pure states and strict convex combinations is obtained. Based on this characterization, a structural theorem for maps between multipartite quantum states that preserve separable pure states and strict convex combinations is established. Then these results are applied to characterize injective (local) quantum measurements and answer some conjectures proposed in [J.Phys.A:Math.Theor. 45 (2012) 205305].

id: 1301.7558
title: Optimality of a class of entanglement witnesses for $3\otimes 3$ systems
authors: Xiaofei Qi, Jinchuan Hou
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7558
abstract: Let $\Phi_{t,\pi}: M_3({\mathbb C}) \rightarrow M_3({\mathbb C})$ be a linear map defined by $\Phi_{t,\pi}(A)=(3-t)\sum_{i=1}^3E_{ii}AE_{ii}+t\sum_{i=1}^3E_{i,\pi(i)}AE_{i,\pi(i)}^\dag-A$, where $0\leq t\leq 3$ and $\pi$ is a permutation of $(1,2,3)$. We show that the Hermitian matrix $W_{\Phi_{t,\pi}}$ induced by $\Phi_{t,\pi}$ is an optimal entanglement witness if and only if $t=1$ and $\pi$ is cyclic.

id: 1301.7578
title: Determinism without causality
authors: Giacomo M. D'Ariano, Franco Manessi, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 6 pages + Appendix (4 pages), 1 figure
journal: Phys. Scr. T163 (2014) 014013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7578
abstract: Causality has been often confused with the notion of determinism. It is mandatory to separate the two notions in view of the debate about quantum foundations. Quantum theory provides an example of causal not-deterministic theory. Here we introduce a toy operational theory that is deterministic and non-causal, thus proving that the two notions of causality and determinism are totally independent.

id: 1301.7596
title: Adaptive propagation of quantum few-body systems with time-dependent Hamiltonians
authors: Jonas C. Cremon
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure (4 panels)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7596
abstract: In this study, a variety of methods are tested and compared for the numerical solution of the Schr\"odinger equation for few-body systems with explicitely time-dependent Hamiltonians, with the aim to find the optimal one. The configuration interaction method, generally applied to find stationary eigenstates accurately and without approximations to the wavefunction's structure, may also be used for the time-evolution, which results in a large linear system of ordinary differential equations. The large basis sizes typically present when the configuration interaction method is used calls for efficient methods for the time evolution. Apart from efficiency, adaptivity (in the time domain) is the other main focus in this study, such that the time step is adjusted automatically given some requested accuracy. A method is suggested here, based on an exponential integrator approach, combined with different ways to implement the adaptivity, which was found to be faster than a broad variety of other methods that were also considered.

id: 1301.7600
title: Monogamy deficit for quantum correlation in multipartite quantum system
authors: Si-Yuan Liu, Bo Li, Wen-Li Yang, Heng Fan
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 87, 062120 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7600
abstract: We introduce the concept of monogamy deficit for quantum correlation by combining together two types of monogamy inequalities depending on different measurement sides. For tripartite pure state, we demonstrate a relation which connects two types of monogamy inequalities for quantum discord and provide the difference between them. By using this relation, we obtain an unified physical interpretation for these two monogamy deficit. In addition, we find an interesting fact that there is a general monogamy condition for several quantum correlations for tripartite pure states. We then provide a necessary and sufficient condition for the establishment of one kind of monogamy inequality for tripartite mixed state and generalize it to multipartite quantum state.

id: 1301.7612
title: Non-exponential spontaneous emission dynamics for emitters in a time-dependent optical cavity
authors: Henri Thyrrestrup, Alex Hartsuiker, Jean-Michel G¨¦rard, Willem L. Vos
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, 21, 23130-23144 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7612
abstract: We have theoretically studied the effect of deterministic temporal control of spontaneous emission in a dynamic optical microcavity. We propose a new paradigm in light emission: we envision an ensemble of two-level emitters in an environment where the local density of optical states is modified on a time scale shorter than the decay time. A rate equation model is developed for the excited state population of two-level emitters in a time-dependent environment in the weak coupling regime in quantum electrodynamics. As a realistic experimental system, we consider emitters in a semiconductor microcavity that is switched by free-carrier excitation. We demonstrate that a short temporal increase of the radiative decay rate depletes the excited state and drastically increases the emission intensity during the switch time. The resulting time-dependent spontaneous emission shows a distribution of photon arrival times that strongly deviates from the usual exponential decay: A deterministic burst of photons is spontaneously emitted during the switch event.

id: 1301.7631
title: Experimental demonstration of interaction-free all-optical switching via the quantum Zeno effect
authors: Kevin T. McCusker, Yu-Ping Huang, Abijith Kowligy, Prem Kumar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 240403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7631
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate all-optical interaction-free switching using the quantum Zeno effect, achieving a high contrast of 35:1. The experimental data matches a zero-parameter theoretical model for several different regimes of operation, indicating a good understanding of the switch's characteristics. We also discuss extensions of this work that will allow for significantly improved performance, and the integration of this technology onto chip-scale devices.

id: 1301.7639
title: On the real matrix representation of PT-symmetric operators
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7639
abstract: We discuss the construction of real matrix representations of PT-symmetric operators. We show the limitation of a general recipe presented some time ago for non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with antiunitary symmetry and propose a way to overcome it. Our results agree with earlier ones for a particular case.

id: 1301.7696
title: Zurek's envariance derivation of Born's rule and measurement
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus (2012) 127: 14
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7696
abstract: Zurek's derivation of Born's rule using envariance (invariance due to entanglement) is considered to capture the probability in full generality, but only as applied to measurement of a quantum observable. Contrariwise, textbook formulations of Born's rule begin with a pure state of a closed, undivided system. The task of this study is to show that a rearrangement of the Zurek approach is possible in which the latter is viewed as giving the probabilities for Schmidt states of an arbitrary composite state vector, and afterwards it is extended to probabilities in a closed, undivided system. This is achieved by determining simultaneously probability and measurement based on the fact that the physical meaning of probability and that of measurement are inextricably dependent on each other.

id: 1301.7722
title: Robust amplification of Santha-Vazirani sources with three devices
authors: Piotr Mironowicz, Rodrigo Gallego, Marcin Pawlowski
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 032317 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7722
abstract: We demonstrate that amplification of arbitrarily weak randomness is possible using quantum resources. We present a randomness amplification protocol that involves Bell experiments. We find a Bell inequality which can amplify arbitrarily weak randomness and give a detailed analysis of the protocol involving it. Our analysis includes finding a sufficient violation of Bell inequality as a function of the initial quality of randomness. It has a very important property that for any quality the required violation is strictly lower than possible to obtain using quantum resources. Among other things, it means that the protocol takes a finite amount of time to amplify arbitrarily weak randomness.

id: 1301.0153
title: Breakup of H$_2^+$ by photon impact
authors: Daniel J. Haxton
comments: Submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0153
abstract: Total and partial cross sections for breakup of ground rovibronic state of H$_2^+$by photon impact are calculated using the exact nonadiabatic nonrelativistic Hamiltonian without approximation. The converged results span six orders of magnitude. The breakup cross section is divided into dissociative excitation and dissociative ionization. The dissociative excitation channels are divided into contributions from principal quantum numbers 1 through 4. For dissociative ionization the kinetic energy sharing is calculated using a formally exact expression. These results are compared with approximate expressions, and it is shown that the Born-Oppenheimer result is surprisingly accurate, whereas using Born-Oppenheimer final states to extract the cross sections from the full nonadiabatic wave function produces pathologies near threshold.

id: 1301.0203
title: $su(1,1)\simeq so(2,1)$ Lie Algebraic Extensions of the Mie-type Interactions with Positive Constant Curvature
authors: O. Yesiltas
comments: 2 figures, 12 pages
journal: PLA 377 49 2012
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0203
abstract: The Schr\"{o}dinger equation in three dimensional space with constant positive curvature is studied for the Mie potential. Using analytic polynomial solutions, we have obtained whole spectrum of the corresponding system. With the aid of factorization method, ladder operators are obtained within the variable and function transformations. Using ladder operators, we have given the generators of $so(2,1)$ algebra and the Casimir operator which are related to the Mie Oscillator on the positive curvature.

id: 1301.0204
title: Statistical measurements of quantum emitters coupled to Anderson-localized modes in disordered photonic-crystal waveguides
authors: Alisa Javadi, Pedro D. Garcia, Luca Sapienza, Henri Thyrrestrup, Peter Lodahl
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0204
abstract: Optical nanostructures have proven to be meritorious for tailoring the emission properties of quantum emitters. However, unavoidable fabrication imperfections may represent a nuisance. Quite remarkably, disorder offers new opportunities since light can be efficiently confined by random multiple scattering leading to Anderson localization. Here we investigate the effect of such disorder-induced cavities on the emission dynamics of single quantum dots embedded in disordered photonic-crystal waveguides. We present time-resolved measurements of both the total emission from Anderson-localized cavities and from single emitters that are coupled to the cavities. We observe both strongly inhibited and enhanced decay rates relative to the rate of spontaneous emission in a homogeneous medium. From a statistical analysis, we report an average Purcell factor of 2 in without any control on the quantum dot - cavity detuning. By spectrally tuning individual quantum dots into resonance with Anderson-localized modes, a maximum Purcell factor of 23.8 is recorded, which lies at the onset of the strong coupling regime. The presented data quantify the potential of naturally occurring Anderson-localized cavities for controlling and enhancing the light-matter interaction strength, which is of relevance not only for cavity quantum-electrodynamics experiments but potentially also for efficient energy harvesting and controllable random lasing.

id: 1301.0205
title: $\mathcal{PT}$ Symmetric Hamiltonian Model and Dirac Equation in 1+1 dimensions
authors: O. Yesiltas
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: JPA 46 015302 2013
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0205
abstract: In this article, we have introduced a $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetric non-Hermitian Hamiltonian model which is given as $\hat{\mathcal{H}}=\omega (\hat{b}^{\dag}\hat{b}+1/2)+ \alpha (\hat{b}^{2}-(\hat{b}^{\dag})^{2})$ where $\omega$ and $\alpha$ are real constants, $\hat{b}$ and $\hat{b^{\dag}}$ are first order differential operators. The Hermitian form of the Hamiltonian $\mathcal{\hat{H}}$ is obtained by suitable mappings and it is interrelated to the time independent one dimensional Dirac equation in the presence of position dependent mass. Then, Dirac equation is reduced to a Schr\"{o}dinger-like equation and two new complex non-$\mathcal{PT}$ symmetric vector potentials are generated. We have obtained real spectrum for these new complex vector potentials using shape invariance method. We have searched the real energy values using numerical methods for the specific values of the parameters.

id: 1301.0218
title: Single Defect Center Scanning Near-Field Optical Microscopy on Graphene
authors: J. Tisler, T. Oeckinghaus, R. St?hr, R. Kolesov, F. Reinhard, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0218
abstract: We demonstrate high resolution scanning fluorescence resonance energy transfer 10 microscopy between a single nitrogen-vacancy center as donor and graphene as acceptor. 11 Images with few nanometer resolution of single and multilayer graphene structures were 12 attained. An energy transfer efficiency of 30% at distances of 10nm between a single 13 defect and graphene was measured. Further the energy transfer distance dependence of 14 the nitrogen-vacancy center to graphene was measured to show the predicted d-4 15 dependence. Our studies pave the way towards a diamond defect center based versatile 16 single emitter scanning microscope.

id: 1301.0233
title: Quantum Hertz entropy increase in a quenched spin chain
authors: Darshan G. Joshi, Michele Campisi
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: The European Physical Journal B 86 (2013) 157
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0233
abstract: The classical Hertz entropy is the logarithm of the volume of phase space bounded by the constant energy surface; its quantum counterpart, the quantum Hertz entropy, is $\hat S = k_B \ln \hat N$, where the quantum operator $\hat N$ specifies the number of states with energy below a given energy eigenstate. It has been recently proved that, when an isolated quantum mechanical system is driven out of equilibrium by an external driving, the change in the expectation of its quantum Hertz entropy cannot be negative, and is null for adiabatic driving. This is in full agreement with the Clausius principle. Here we test the behavior of the expectation of the quantum Hertz entropy in the case when two identical XY spin chains initially at different temperatures are quenched into a single XY chain. We observed no quantum Hertz entropy decrease. This finding further supports the statement that the quantum Hertz entropy is a proper entropy for isolated quantum systems. We further quantify how far the quenched chain is from thermal equilibrium and the temperature of the closest equilibrium.

id: 1301.0260
title: Relaxation of excited spin, orbital, and valley qubit states in single electron silicon quantum dots
authors: Charles Tahan, Robert Joynt
comments: Previously unpublished as well as new results for spin relaxation in ideal silicon quantum dots. Minor update: fixed Fig 6
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 075302 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0260
abstract: We expand on previous work that treats relaxation physics of low-lying excited states in ideal, single electron, silicon quantum dots in the context of quantum computing. These states are of three types: orbital, valley, and spin. The relaxation times depend sensitively on system parameters such as the dot size and the external magnetic field. Generally, however, orbital relaxation times are short in strained silicon (from a tenth of a microsecond to picoseconds), spin relaxation times are long (microseconds to greater than seconds), while valley relaxation times are expected to lie in between. The focus is on relaxation due to emission or absorption of phonons, but for spin relaxation we also consider competing mechanisms such as charge noise. Where appropriate, comparison is made to reference systems such as quantum dots in III-V materials and silicon donor states. The phonon bottleneck effect is shown to be rather small in the silicon dots of interest. We compare the theoretical predictions to some recent spin relaxation experiments and comment on the possible effects of non-ideal dots.

id: 1301.0336
title: Entanglement Entropy of a Massive Fermion on a Torus
authors: Christopher P. Herzog, Tatsuma Nishioka
comments: 29 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0336
abstract: The Renyi entropies of a massless Dirac fermion on a circle with chemical potential are calculated analytically at nonzero temperature by using the bosonization method. The bosonization of a massive Dirac fermion to the sine-Gordon model lets us obtain the small mass corrections to the entropies. We numerically compute the Renyi entropies by putting a massive fermion on the lattice and find agreement between the analytic and numerical results. In the presence of a mass gap, we show that corrections to Renyi and entanglement entropies in the limit m >> T scale as exp(-m/T). We also show that when there is ground state degeneracy in the gapless case, the limits m to zero and T to zero do not commute.

id: 1301.0362
title: Molecular Beam Epitaxial Growth of Bi2Te3 and Sb2Te3 Topological Insulators on GaAs (111) Substrates: A Potential Route to Fabricate Topological Insulator p-n Junction
authors: Zhaoquan Zeng, Timothy A. Morgan, Dongsheng Fan, Chen Li, Yusuke Hirono, Xian Hu, Yanfei Zhao, Joon Sue Lee, Zhiming M. Wang, Jian Wang, Shuiqing Yu, Michael E. Hawkridge, Mourad Benamara, Gregory J. Salamo
comments: 16 pages, 9 figure, 2 tables
journal: AIP Advances 3, 072112 (2013)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0362
abstract: High quality Bi2Te3 and Sb2Te3 topological insulators films were epitaxially grown on GaAs (111) substrate using solid source molecular beam epitaxy. Their growth and behavior on both vicinal and non-vicinal GaAs (111) substrates were investigated by reflection high-energy electron diffraction, atomic force microscopy, x-ray diffraction, and high resolution transmission electron microscopy. It is found that non-vicinal GaAs (111) substrate is better than a vicinal substrate to provide high quality Bi2Te3 and Sb2Te3 films. Hall and magnetoresistance measurements indicate that p type Sb2Te3 and n type Bi2Te3 topological insulator films can be directly grown on a GaAs (111) substrate, which may pave a way to fabricate topological insulator p-n junction on the same substrate, compatible with the fabrication process of present semiconductor optoelectronic devices.

id: 1301.0366
title: Rethinking the scientific enterprise: in defense of reductionism
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: Fourth Prize, 2012 FQXi Essay Contest, "Questioning the Foundations"; 7 pages + references
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0366
abstract: In this essay, I argue that modern science is not the dichotomous pairing of theory and experiment that it is typically presented as, and I offer an alternative paradigm defined by its functions as a human endeavor. I also demonstrate how certain scientific debates, such as the debate over the nature of the quantum state, can be partially resolved by this new paradigm.

id: 1301.0403
title: Precision spectroscopy of high rotational states in H_2 investigated by Doppler-free two-photon laser spectroscopy in the EF^1¦²_g^+ - X^1¦²_g^+ system
authors: G. D. Dickenson, E. J. Salumbides, M. Niu, Ch. Jungen, S. C. Ross, W. Ubachs
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures, 3 tables in article, 3 tables in supplemental material
journal: Physical Review A, 86, 032502, 2012
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0403
abstract: Recently a high precision spectroscopic investigation of the EF^1\Sigma_g^+ - X^1\Sigma_g^+ system of molecular hydrogen was reported yielding information on QED and relativistic effects in a sequence of rotational quantum states in the X^1\Sigma^+_g$ ground state of the H_2 molecule [E.J. Salumbides et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 043005 (2011)]. The present paper presents a more detailed description of the methods and results. Furthermore, the paper serves as a stepping stone towards a continuation of the previous study by extending the known level structure of the EF^1\Sigma^+_g state to highly excited rovibrational levels through Doppler-free two photon spectroscopy. Based on combination differences between vibrational levels in the ground state, and between three rotational branches (O, Q and S branches) assignments of excited EF^1\Sigma^+_g levels, involving high vibrational and rotational quantum numbers, can be unambiguously made. For the higher EF^1\Sigma^+_g levels, where no combination differences are available, calculations were performed using the multi-channel quantum defect method, for a broad class of vibrational and rotational levels up to J=19. These predictions were used for assigning high-J EF-levels and are found to be accurate within 5 cm^-1.

id: 1301.0415
title: VUV Spectroscopic Study of the D^1¦°State of Molecular Deuterium
authors: G. D. Dickenson, T. I. Ivanov, W. Ubachs, M. Roudjane, N. de Oliveira, D. Joyeux, L. Nahon, W.-? L. Tchang-Brillet, M. Glass-Maujean, H. Schmoranzer, A. Knie, S. K¨¹bler, A. Ehresmann
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures, 2 tables, supplemental material with an additional table
journal: Journal of Molecular Physics, 109, 2693, 2011
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0415
abstract: The D^1\Pi_u - X^1\Sigma_g^+ absorption system of molecular deuterium has been re-investigated using the VUV Fourier -Transform (FT) spectrometer at the DESIRS beamline of the synchrotron SOLEIL and photon-induced fluorescence spectrometry (PIFS) using the 10 m normal incidence monochromator at the synchrotron BESSY II. Using the FT spectrometer absorption spectra in the range 72 - 82 nm were recorded in quasi static gas at 100 K and in a free flowing jet at a spectroscopic resolution of 0.50 and 0.20 cm^{-1} respectively . The narrow Q-branch transitions, probing states of \Pi^- symmetry, were observed up to vibrational level v = 22. The states of \Pi^+ symmetry, known to be broadened due to predissociation and giving rise to asymmetric Beutler-Fano resonances, were studied up to v = 18. The 10 m normal incidence beamline setup at BESSY II was used to simultaneously record absorption, dissociation, ionization and fluorescence decay channels from which information on the line intensities, predissociated widths, and Fano q-parameters were extracted. R-branch transitions were observed up to v = 23 for J = 1-3 as well as several transitions for J = 4 and 5 up to v = 22 and 18 respectively. The Q-branch transitions are found to weakly predissociate and were observed from v = 8 to the final vibrational level of the state v = 23. The spectroscopic study is supported by two theoretical frameworks. Results on the \Pi^- symmetry states are compared to ab initio multi-channel-quantum defect theory (MQDT) calculations, demonstrating that these calculations are accurate to within 0.5 cm^-1.

id: 1301.0436
title: Solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation in an infinite square-well potential with a moving wall
authors: Michael Koehn
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures; v2: references added
journal: EPL 100 (2012) 60008
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0436
abstract: Employing a transformation to hyperbolic space, we derive in a simple way exact solutions for the Klein-Gordon equation in an infinite square-well potential with one boundary moving at constant velocity, for the massless as well as for the massive case.

id: 1301.0483
title: Demonstration of a Dual Alkali Rb/Cs Atomic Fountain Clock
authors: J. Gu¨¦na, P. Rosenbusch, Ph. Laurent, M. Abgrall, D. Rovera, M. Lours, G. Santarelli, M. E. Tobar, S. Bize, A. Clairon
comments: 6 pages, 10 figures, 23 references
journal: IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics and Frequency Control 57, 647 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0483
abstract: We report the operation of a dual Rb/Cs atomic fountain clock. 133Cs and 87Rb atoms are cooled, launched, and detected simultaneously in LNE-SYRTE's FO2 double fountain. The dual clock operation occurs with no degradation of either the stability or the accuracy. We describe the key features for achieving such a simultaneous operation. We also report on the results of the first Rb/Cs frequency measurement campaign performed with FO2 in this dual atom clock configuration, including a new determination of the absolute 87Rb hyperfine frequency.

id: 1301.0535
title: First-order sideband transitions with flux-driven asymmetric transmon qubits
authors: J. D. Strand, Matthew Ware, F¨¦lix Beaudoin, T. A. Ohki, B. R. Johnson, Alexandre Blais, B. L. T. Plourde
comments: 4.5 pages, 4 figures; published version
journal: Physical Review B 87, 220505(R) (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0535
abstract: We demonstrate rapid, first-order sideband transitions between a superconducting resonator and a frequency-modulated transmon qubit. The qubit contains a substantial asymmetry between its Josephson junctions leading to a linear portion of the energy band near the resonator frequency. The sideband transitions are driven with a magnetic flux signal of a few hundred MHz coupled to the qubit. This modulates the qubit splitting at a frequency near the detuning between the dressed qubit and resonator frequencies, leading to rates up to 85 MHz for exchanging quanta between the qubit and resonator.

id: 1301.0658
title: Observation of Zitterbewegung in a spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Chunlei Qu, Chris Hamner, Ming Gong, Chuanwei Zhang, Peter Engels
comments: 7 pages with supplemental material, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 021604(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0658
abstract: Spin-orbit coupled ultra-cold atoms provide an intriguing new avenue for the study of rich spin dynamics in superfluids. In this Letter, we observe Zitterbewegung, the simultaneous velocity (thus position) and spin oscillations, of neutral atoms between two spin-orbit coupled bands in a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) through sudden quantum quenches of the Hamiltonian. The observed Zitterbewegung oscillations are perfect on a short time scale but gradually damp out on a long time scale, followed by sudden and strong heating of the BEC. As an application, we also demonstrate how Zitterbewegung oscillations can be exploited to populate the upper spin-orbit band, and observe a subsequent dipole motion. Our experimental results are corroborated by a theoretical and numerical analysis and showcase the great flexibility that ultra-cold atoms provide for investigating rich spin dynamics in superfluids.

id: 1301.0692
title: Entanglement Witnessing based on Positive Maps: Characterization of a Class of Bipartite n x n qubit Systems
authors: Mahya Karbalaii
comments: 116 pages, 9 figures, PhD Thesis
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0692
abstract: In this thesis work, we have studied the role of positive and completely positive maps in detecting entanglement.

id: 1301.0704
title: Finite oscillator obtained through finite frame quantization
authors: Nicolae Cotfas, Daniela Dragoman
comments: Several new results and figures have been added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 355301
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0704
abstract: The Hamiltonian of the harmonic oscillator is usually defined as a differential operator, but an integral representation can be obtained by using the coherent state quantization. The finite frame quantization is a finite counterpart of the coherent state quantization and it allows us to define a finite oscillator by starting from the integral representation of the harmonic oscillator. Our purpose is to investigate the oscillator obtained in this way, and to present a possible application to the discrete fractional Fourier transform.

id: 1301.0716
title: Non-Hermitian Oscillator and R-deformed Heisenberg Algebra
authors: Rajkumar Roychoudhury, Barnana Roy, Partha Pratim Dube
comments: 
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0716
abstract: A non-Hermitian generalized oscillator model, generally known as the Swanson model, has been studied in the framework of R-deformed Heisenberg algebra. The non-Hermitian Hamiltonian is diagonalized by generalized Bogoliubov transformation. A set of deformed creation annihilation operators is introduced whose algebra shows that the transformed Hamiltonian has conformal symmetry. The spectrum is obtained using algebraic technique. The superconformal structure of the system is also worked out in detail. An anomaly related to the spectrum of the Hermitian counterpart of the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian with generalized ladder operators is shown to occur and is discussed in position dependent mass scenario.

id: 1301.0746
title: Exploiting Matrix Symmetries and Physical Symmetries in Matrix Product States and Tensor Trains
authors: T. Huckle, K. Waldherr, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen
comments: 
journal: Lin. Multilin. Alg. 61 (2013), 91--122
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0746
abstract: We focus on symmetries related to matrices and vectors appearing in the simulation of quantum many-body systems. Spin Hamiltonians have special matrix-symmetry properties such as persymmetry. Furthermore, the systems may exhibit physical symmetries translating into symmetry properties of the eigenvectors of interest. Both types of symmetry can be exploited in sparse representation formats such as Matrix Product States (MPS) for the desired eigenvectors. This paper summarizes symmetries of Hamiltonians for typical physical systems such as the Ising model and lists resulting properties of the related eigenvectors. Based on an overview of Matrix Product States (Tensor Trains or Tensor Chains) and their canonical normal forms we show how symmetry properties of the vector translate into relations between the MPS matrices and, in turn, which symmetry properties result from relations within the MPS matrices. In this context we analyze different kinds of symmetries and derive appropriate normal forms for MPS representing these symmetries. Exploiting such symmetries by using these normal forms will lead to a reduction in the number of degrees of freedom in the MPS matrices. This paper provides a uniform platform for both well-known and new results which are presented from the (multi-)linear algebra point of view.

id: 1301.0751
title: Quantum Structure in Economics: The Ellsberg Paradox
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1105.1814, arXiv:1104.1459, arXiv:1105.1812
journal: In M. D'Ariano, S.-M. Fei, E. Haven, B. Hiesmayr, G. Jaeger, A. Khrennikov, J.-A. Larsson (Eds.), Foundations of Probability and Physics - 6, AIP Conference Proceedings, 1424, pp. 487-494, 2012
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0751
abstract: The 'expected utility hypothesis' and 'Savage's Sure-Thing Principle' are violated in real life decisions, as shown by the 'Allais' and 'Ellsberg paradoxes'. The popular explanation in terms of 'ambiguity aversion' is not completely accepted. As a consequence, uncertainty is still problematical in economics. To overcome these difficulties a distinction between 'risk' and 'ambiguity' has been introduced which depends on the existence of a Kolmogorovian probabilistic structure modeling these uncertainties. On the other hand, evidence of everyday life suggests that context plays a fundamental role in human decisions under uncertainty. Moreover, it is well known from physics that any probabilistic structure modeling contextual interactions between entities structurally needs a non-Kolmogorovian framework admitting a quantum-like representation. For this reason, we have recently introduced a notion of 'contextual risk' to mathematically capture situations in which ambiguity occurs. We prove in this paper that the contextual risk approach can be applied to the Ellsberg paradox, and elaborate a sphere model within our 'hidden measurement formalism' which reveals that it is the overall conceptual landscape that is responsible of the disagreement between actual human decisions and the predictions of expected utility theory, which generates the paradox. This result points to the presence of a quantum conceptual layer' in human thought which is superposed to the usually assumed classical logical layer', and conceptually supports the thesis of several authors suggesting the presence of quantum structure in economics and decision theory.

id: 1301.0771
title: Quantum interference in attosecond transient absorption of laser-dressed helium atoms
authors: Shaohao Chen, Mengxi Wu, Mette B. Gaarde, Kenneth J. Schafer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0771
abstract: We calculate the transient absorption of an isolated attosecond pulse by helium atoms subject to a delayed infrared (\ir) laser pulse. With the central frequency of the broad attosecond spectrum near the ionization threshold, the absorption spectrum is strongly modulated at the sub-\ir-cycle level. Given that the absorption spectrum results from a time-integrated measurement, we investigate the extent to which the delay-dependence of the absorption yields information about the attosecond dynamics of the atom-field energy exchange. We find two configurations in which this is possible. The first involves multi photon transitions between bound states that result in interference between different excitation pathways. The other involves the modification of the bound state absorption lines by the IR field, which we find can result in a sub-cycle time dependence only when ionization limits the duration of the strong field interaction.

id: 1301.0778
title: Ultrasensitive magnetic field detection using a single artificial atom
authors: Mustafa Bal, Chunqing Deng, Jean-Luc Orgiazzi, Florian Ong, Adrian Lupascu
comments: Significantly revised and updated version of the manuscript is published in Nature Communications 3:1324 (2012)
journal: Nat. Commun. 3:1324 doi: 10.1038/ncomms2332 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0778
abstract: Efficient detection of magnetic fields is central to many areas of research and has important practical applications ranging from materials science to geomagnetism. High sensitivity detectors are commonly built using direct current-superconducting quantum interference devices (DC-SQUIDs) or atomic systems. Here we use a single artificial atom to implement an ultrahigh sensitivity magnetometer with a size in the micron range. The artificial atom is a superconducting two-level system at low temperatures, operated in a way similar to atomic magnetometry. The high sensitivity results from quantum coherence combined with strong coupling to magnetic field. By employing projective measurements, we obtain a sensitivity of $2.7\, \t{pT}/\sqrt{\t{Hz}}$ at 10 MHz. We discuss feasible improvements that will increase the sensitivity by over one order of magnitude. The intrinsic sensitivity of this method to AC fields in the 100 kHz - 10 MHz range compares favourably with DC-SQUIDs and atomic magnetometers of equivalent spatial resolution. This result illustrates the potential of artificial quantum systems for sensitive detection and related applications.

id: 1301.0839
title: Energy transfer properties and absorption spectra of the FMO complex: from exact PIMC calculations to TCL master equations
authors: Piet Schijven, Lothar Muehlbacher, Oliver Muelken
comments: Added citations and small typographic corrections
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0839
abstract: We investigate the excitonic energy transfer (EET) in the Fenna-Matthews-Olsen complex and obtain the linear absorption spectrum (at 300 K) by a phenomenological time-convolutionless (TCL) master equation which is validated by utilizing Path Integral Monte Carlo (PIMC) simulations. By applying Marcus' theory for choosing the proper Lindblad operators for the long-time incoherent hopping process and using local non-Markovian dephasing rates, our model shows very good agreement with the PIMC results for EET. It also correctly reproduces the linear absorption spectrum that is found in experiment, without using any fitting parameters.

id: 1301.0846
title: Dynamics of the Mott Insulator to Superfluid quantum phase transition in the truncated Wigner approximation
authors: Marek Tylutki, Jacek Dziarmaga, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures; Laser Physics Workshop (LPHYS'12) Proceedings, Calgary 2012
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 414, 012029 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0846
abstract: The quantum phase transition from the Mott insulator state to the superfluid in the Bose-Hubbard model is investigated. We research one, two and three dimensional lattices in the truncated Wigner approximation. We compute both kinetic and potential energy and they turn out to have a power law behaviour as a function of the transition rate, with the power equal to 1/3. The same applies to the total energy in a system with a harmonic trap, which is usually present in the experimental set-up. These observations are in agreement with the experiment of [8], where such scalings were also observed and the power of the decay was numerically close to 1/3. The results confirm the Kibble-Zurek (adiabatic-impulse-adiabatic approximation) scenario for this transition.

id: 1301.0850
title: Generalized Bell states and principal realization of the Yangian Y(sl_N)
authors: Ming Liu, Chengming Bai, Mo-Lin Ge, Naihuan Jing
comments: 15 pages
journal: Jour. Math. Phys. 54, 021701 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0850
abstract: We prove that the action of the Yangian algebra Y(sl_N) is better described by the principal generators on the tensor product of the fundamental representation and its dual. The generalized Bell states or maximally entangled states are permuted by the principal generators in a dramatically simple manner on the tensor product. Under the Yangian symmetry the new quantum number J^2 is also explicitly computed, which gives an explanation for these maximally entangled states.

id: 1301.0923
title: Fermi's Trick and Symplectic Capacities: A Geometric Picture of Quantum States
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson, Serge M. de Gosson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.0923
abstract: We extend the notion of quantum blob studied in previous work to excited states of the generalized harmonic oscillator in n dimensions. This extension is made possible by Fermi's observation in 1930 that the state of a quantum system may be defined in two different (but equivalent) ways, namely by its wavefunction {\Psi} or by a certain function g_{F} on phase space canonically associated with {\Psi}. We study Fermi's function when {\Psi} is a Gaussian (generalized coherent state). A striking result is that we can use the Ekeland--Hofer symplectic capacities to characterize the Fermi functions of the excited states of the generalized harmonic oscillator, leading to new insight on the relationship between symplectic topology and quantum mechanics.

id: 1301.1066
title: WKB Approximation to the Power Wall
authors: F. D. Mera, S. A. Fulling, J. D. Bouas, K. Thapa
comments: 30 pages, 8 figures. Minor corrections in v. 2
journal: J. Phys. A 46 (2013) 195302
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1066
abstract: We present a semiclassical analysis of the quantum propagator of a particle confined on one side by a steeply, monotonically rising potential. The models studied in detail have potentials proportional to $x^{\alpha}$ for $x>0$; the limit $\alpha\to\infty$ would reproduce a perfectly reflecting boundary, but at present we concentrate on the cases $\alpha =1$ and 2, for which exact solutions in terms of well known functions are available for comparison. We classify the classical paths in this system by their qualitative nature and calculate the contributions of the various classes to the leading-order semiclassical approximation: For each classical path we find the action $S$, the amplitude function $A$ and the Laplacian of $A$. (The Laplacian is of interest because it gives an estimate of the error in the approximation and is needed for computing higher-order approximations.) The resulting semiclassical propagator can be used to rewrite the exact problem as a Volterra integral equation, whose formal solution by iteration (Neumann series) is a semiclassical, not perturbative, expansion. We thereby test, in the context of a concrete problem, the validity of the two technical hypotheses in a previous proof of the convergence of such a Neumann series in the more abstract setting of an arbitrary smooth potential. Not surprisingly, we find that the hypotheses are violated when caustics develop in the classical dynamics; this opens up the interesting future project of extending the methods to momentum space.

id: 1301.1108
title: Non-volatile Spin Switch for Boolean and Non-Boolean Logic
authors: Supriyo Datta, Sayeef Salahuddin, Behtash Behin-Aein
comments: 10 pages. 5 figures in the main article. 4 figures in the appendix. Also available at this http URL
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 101, 252411 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1108
abstract: We show that the established physics of spin valves together with the recently discovered giant spin-Hall effect could be used to construct Read and Write units that can be integrated into a single spin switch with input-output isolation, gain and fan-out similar to CMOS inverters, but with the information stored in nanomagnets making it non-volatile. Such spin switches could be interconnected, with no external amplification, just with passive circuit elements, to perform logic operations. Moreover, since the digitization and storage occurs naturally in the magnets, the voltages can be used to implement analog weighting for non-Boolean logic.

id: 1301.1143
title: Enhancing photoassociation rates by non-resonant light control of shape resonances
authors: Rosario Gonz¨¢lez-F¨¦rez, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063420 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1143
abstract: Photoassociation, assembling molecules from atoms using laser light, is limited by the low density of atom pairs at sufficiently short interatomic separations. Here, we show that non-resonant light with intensities of the order of 10^10 W/cm^2 modifies the thermal cloud of atoms, enhancing the Boltzmann weight of shape resonances and pushing scattering states below the dissociation limit. This leads to an enhancement of photoassociation rates by several orders of magnitude and opens the way to significantly larger numbers of ground state molecules in a thermal ensemble than achieved so far.

id: 1301.1193
title: Strongly Interacting Fermions and Phases of the Casimir Effect
authors: Antonino Flachi
comments: 5 pages, 10 figures; one reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110 (2013) 060401
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1193
abstract: With the intent of exploring how the interplay between boundary effects and chiral symmetry breaking may alter the thermodynamical behavior of a system of strongly interacting fermions, we study the Casimir effect for the setup of two parallel layers using a four-fermion effective field theory at zero density. This system reveals a number of interesting features. While for infinitely large separation (no boundaries), chiral symmetry is broken or restored via a second order phase transition, in the opposite case of small (and, in general, finite) separation the transition becomes first order, rendering effects of finite size, for the present setup, similar to those of a chemical potential. Appropriately moving on the separation-temperature plane, it is possible to generate a peculiar behavior in the temperature dependence of the thermodynamic potential and of the condensate, compensating thermal with geometrical variations. A behavior similar to what we find here has been predicted to occur in bilayer graphene. Chiral symmetry breaking induces different phases (massless and massive) in the Casimir force separated by critical lines.

id: 1301.1300
title: Algebraic Approach to Entanglement and Entropy
authors: A. P. Balachandran, T. R. Govindarajan, Amilcar R. de Queiroz, A. F. Reyes-Lega
comments: 43 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1300
abstract: We present a general approach to quantum entanglement and entropy that is based on algebras of observables and states thereon. In contrast to more standard treatments, Hilbert space is an emergent concept, appearing as a representation space of the observable algebra, once a state is chosen. In this approach, which is based on the Gelfand-Naimark-Segal construction, the study of subsystems becomes particularly clear. We explicitly show how the problems associated with partial trace for the study of entanglement of identical particles are readily overcome. In particular, a suitable entanglement measure is proposed, that can be applied to systems of particles obeying Fermi, Bose, para- and even braid group statistics. The generality of the method is also illustrated by the study of time evolution of subsystems emerging from restriction to subalgebras. Also, problems related to anomalies and quantum epistemology are discussed.

id: 1301.1342
title: Quantum simulation of many-body spin interactions with ultracold polar molecules
authors: Hendrik Weimer
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Mol. Phys. 111, 1753 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1342
abstract: We present an architecture for the quantum simulation of many-body spin interactions based on ultracold polar molecules trapped in optical lattices. Our approach employs digital quantum simulation, i.e., the dynamics of the simulated system is reproduced by the quantum simulator in a stroboscopic pattern, and allows to simulate both coherent and dissipative dynamics. We discuss the realization of Kitaev's toric code Hamiltonian, a paradigmatic model involving four-body interactions, and we analyze the requirements for an experimental implementation.

id: 1301.1455
title: Observation of Defect States in PT-Symmetric Optical Lattices
authors: Alois Regensburger, Mohammad-Ali Miri, Christoph Bersch, Jakob N?ger, Georgy Onishchukov, Demetrios N. Christodoulides, Ulf Peschel
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 223902 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1455
abstract: We provide the first experimental demonstration of defect states in parity-time (PT) symmetric mesh-periodic potentials. Our results indicate that these localized modes can undergo an abrupt phase transition in spite of the fact that they remain localized in a PT-symmetric periodic environment. Even more intriguing is the possibility of observing a linearly growing radiation emission from such defects provided their eigenvalue is associated with an exceptional point that resides within the continuum part of the spectrum. Localized complex modes existing outside the band-gap regions are also reported along with their evolution dynamics.

id: 1301.1538
title: Right about time?
authors: Sean Gryb, Flavio Mercati
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures. Only author affiliations and emails added. This essay received fourth prize in the juried FQXi essay competition of 2012
journal: Questioning the Foundations of Physics. The Frontiers Collection. pp 87-102. Springer, 2015
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1538
abstract: Have our fundamental theories got time right? Does size really matter? Or is physics all in the eyes of the beholder? In this essay, we question the origin of time and scale by reevaluating the nature of measurement. We then argue for a radical scenario, supported by a suggestive calculation, where the flow of time is inseparable from the measurement process. Our scenario breaks the bond of time and space and builds a new one: the marriage of time and scale.

id: 1301.1553
title: Fluctuation theorems for non-Markovian quantum processes
authors: Bruno Leggio, Anna Napoli, Heinz-Peter Breuer, Antonino Messina
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1553
abstract: Exploiting previous results on Markovian dynamics and fluctuation theorems, we study the consequences of memory effects on single realizations of nonequilibrium processes within an open system approach. The entropy production along single trajectories for forward and backward processes is obtained with the help of a recently proposed classical-like non-Markovian stochastic unravelling, which is demonstrated to lead to a correction of the standard entropic fluctuation theorem. This correction is interpreted as resulting from the interplay between the information extracted from the system through measurements and the flow of information from the environment to the open system: Due to memory effects single realizations of a dynamical process are no longer independent, and their correlations fundamentally affect the behavior of entropy fluctuations.

id: 1301.1595
title: 3D Computational Ghost Imaging
authors: Baoqing Sun, Matthew P. Edgar, Richard Bowman, Liberty E. Vittert, Stephen S. Welsh, Ardrian Bowman, Miles J. Padgett
comments: 13pages, 4figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1595
abstract: Computational ghost imaging retrieves the spatial information of a scene using a single pixel detector. By projecting a series of known random patterns and measuring the back reflected intensity for each one, it is possible to reconstruct a 2D image of the scene. In this work we overcome previous limitations of computational ghost imaging and capture the 3D spatial form of an object by using several single pixel detectors in different locations. From each detector we derive a 2D image of the object that appears to be illuminated from a different direction, using only a single digital projector as illumination. Comparing the shading of the images allows the surface gradient and hence the 3D form of the object to be reconstructed. We compare our result to that obtained from a stereo- photogrammetric system utilizing multiple high resolution cameras. Our low cost approach is compatible with consumer applications and can readily be extended to non-visible wavebands.

id: 1301.1605
title: Highly-efficient noise-assisted energy transport in classical oscillator systems
authors: R. de J. Le¨®n-Montiel, Juan P. Torres
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 218101 (2013)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1605
abstract: Photosynthesis is a biological process that involves the highly-efficient transport of energy captured from the sun to a reaction center, where conversion into useful biochemical energy takes place. Even though one can always use a quantum perspective to describe any physical process, since everything follows the laws of Quantum Mechanics, is the use of quantum theory imperative to explain this high efficiency? Making use of the quantum-classical correspondence of electronic energy transfer recently introduced by Eisfeld and Briggs [Phys. Rev. E 85, 046118 (2012)], we show here that the highly-efficient noise-assisted energy transport described by Rebentrost et al. [New J. Phys. 11, 033003 (2009)], and Plenio and Huelga [New J. Phys. 10, 113019 (2008)], as the result of the interplay between the quantum coherent evolution of the photosynthetic system and noise introduced by its surrounding environment, it can be found as well in purely classical systems. The wider scope of applicability of the enhancement of energy transfer assisted by noise might open new ways for developing new technologies aimed at enhancing the efficiency of a myriad of energy transfer systems, from information channels in micro-electronic circuits to long-distance high-voltage electrical lines.

id: 1301.1615
title: Phase diagram of the Anderson transition with atomic matter waves
authors: Matthias Lopez, Jean-Fran?ois Cl¨¦ment, Gabriel Lemari¨¦, Dominique Delande, Pascal Szriftgiser, Jean Claude Garreau
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 065013
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1615
abstract: We realize experimentally a cold atom system equivalent to the 3D Anderson model of disordered solids where the anisotropy can be controlled by adjusting an experimentally accessible parameter. This allows us to study experimentally the disorder vs anisotropy phase diagram of the Anderson metal-insulator transition. Numerical and experimental data compare very well with each other and a theoretical analysis based on the self-consistent theory of localization correctly discribes the observed behavior, illustrating the flexibility of cold atom experiments for the study of transport phenomena in complex quantum systems.

id: 1301.1621
title: Non-universal bound states of two identical heavy fermions and one light particle
authors: A. Safavi-Naini, Seth. T. Rittenhouse, D. Blume, H. R. Sadeghpour
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1621
abstract: We study the behavior of the bound state energy of a system consisting of two identical heavy fermions of mass M and a light particle of mass m. The heavy fermions interact with the light particle through a short-range two-body potential with positive s-wave scattering length a_s. We impose a short-range boundary condition on the logarithmic derivative of the hyperradial wavefunction and show that, in the regime where Efimov states are absent, a non-universal three-body state "cuts through" the universal three-body states previously described by Kartavtsev and Malykh [O. I. Kartavtsev and A. V. Malykh, J. Phys. B 40, 1429 (2007)]. The presence of the non-universal state alters the behavior of the universal states in certain regions of the parameter space. We show that the existence of the non-universal state is predicted accurately by a simple quantum defect theory model that utilizes hyperspherical coordinates. An empirical two-state model is employed to quantify the coupling of the non-universal state to the universal states.

id: 1301.1676
title: On the eigenvalues of some nonhermitian oscillators
authors: Francisco M. Fern/'andez, Javier Garcia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1676
abstract: We consider a class of one-dimensional nonhermitian oscillators and discuss the relationship between the real eigenvalues of PT-symmetric oscillators and the resonances obtained by different authors. We also show the relationship between the strong-coupling expansions for the eigenvalues of those oscillators. Comparison of the results of the complex rotation and the Riccati-Pad\'{e} methods reveals that the optimal rotation angle converts the oscillator into either a PT-symmetric or an Hermitian one. In addition to the real positive eigenvalues the PT-symmetric oscillators exhibit real positive resonances under different boundary conditions. They can be calculated by means of the straightforward diagonalization method. The Riccati-Pad\'e method yields not only the resonances of the nonhermitian oscillators but also the eigenvalues of the PT-symmetric ones.

id: 1301.1696
title: Three-wave mixing with three incoming waves: Signal-Idler Coherent Cancellation and Gain Enhancement in a Parametric Amplifier
authors: Flavius Schackert, Ananda Roy, Michael Hatridge, A. Douglas Stone, Michel H. Devoret
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Supplemental Material can be found under ancillary files
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1696
abstract: Coherent, purely-dispersive three-wave mixing systems in optics and superconducting microwave circuits can be operated as parametric amplifiers, generating from a pump wave at one frequency amplified signal and idler waves at lower frequencies. Here we demonstrate the reciprocal process using a Josephson amplifier in which coherently imposed signal and idler beams up-convert to the pump frequency. For signal and idler beams strong enough to significantly deplete the pump, we show that this reciprocal process ("coherent cancellation") leads to large, phase-sensitive modulation and even enhancement of the amplifier gain, in good agreement with theoretical predictions.

id: 1301.1706
title: Topological Casimir effect in Maxwell Electrodynamics on a Compact Manifold
authors: ChunJun Cao, Moos van Caspel, Ariel R. Zhitnitsky
comments: a number of terminological comments added. matches the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D. 87 (2013) 105012
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1706
abstract: We study the Topological Casimir effect, in which extra vacuum energy emerges as a result of the topological features of the theory, rather than due to the conventional fluctuations of the physical propagating degrees of freedom. We compute the corresponding topological term in quantum Maxwell theory defined on a compact manifold. Numerically, the topological effect is much smaller than the conventional Casimir effect. However, we argue that the Topological Casimir Effect is highly sensitive to an external magnetic field, which may help to discriminate it from the conventional Casimir effect. It is quite amazing that the external magnetic field plays the role of the $\theta$ state, similar to a $\theta$ vacuum in QCD, or $\theta=\pi$ in topological insulators.

id: 1301.1766
title: Nonlinear Spectroscopic Effects in Quantum Gases Induced by Atom-Atom Interactions
authors: Alexander Safonov, Irina Safonova, Igor Yasnikov
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures; Proceedings of the XXXVI Conference on Low Temperature Physics NT-36 (in Russian), July 2-6, 2012, Ioffee Physicotechnical Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia; accepted for publication in JETP. This paper draws partly from arXiv:1101.2559
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1766
abstract: We consider nonlinear spectroscopic effects - interaction-enhanced double resonance and spectrum instability - that appear in ultracold quantum gases owing to collisional frequency shift of atomic transitions and, consequently, due to the dependence of the frequencies on the population of various internal states of the particles. Special emphasis is put to two simplest cases, (a) the gas of two-level atoms and (b) double resonance in a gas of three-level bosons, in which the probe transition frequency remains constant.

id: 1301.1772
title: Dynamics of quantum coherences at strong coupling to a heat bath
authors: Denis Kast, Joachim Ankerhold
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 134301 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1772
abstract: The standard approach for path integral Monte Carlo simulations of open quantum systems is extended as an efficient tool to monitor the time evolution of coherences (off-diagonal elements of the reduced density matrix) also for strong coupling to environments. Specific simulations are performed for two level systems embedded in Ohmic and sub-Ohmic reservoirs in the domains of coherent and incoherent dynamics of the polarization. In the latter regime, the notorious difficulty to access the long time regime is overcome by combining simulations on moderate time scales with iteratively calculated initial densities. This allows to extract relaxation rates for sub-Ohmic environments at finite temperatures and over a broad range of couplings and to compare them to analytical predictions. The time evolution of the von Neumann entropy provides insight into the quantum phase transition at thermal equilibrium from a delocalized to a localized state at zero temperature.

id: 1301.1836
title: Tomita-Takesaki Modular Theory vs. Quantum Information Theory
authors: Lin Zhang, Junde Wu
comments: 29 pages, LaTeX, this review article is not completed and to be continued. The first goal of writing this topic is just to understand the notion of cyclic and separating vector in von Neumann algebra. The second goal is to apply Tomita-Takesaki modular theory in Quantum Information Theory. All comments are welcome!. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0906.3980, arXiv:1012.1417 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1836
abstract: In this review article, we make an attempt to find out the relationship between separating and cyclic vectors in the theory of von Neumann algebra and entangled states in the theory of quantum information. The corresponding physical interpretation is presented as well.

id: 1301.1849
title: Laser pulse amplification and dispersion compensation in an effectively extended optical cavity containing Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Devrim Tarhan, Alphan Sennaroglu, Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, very close to the published version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 015501
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1849
abstract: We review and critically evaluate our proposal of a pulse amplification scheme based on two Bose-Einstein condensates inside the resonator of a mode-locked laser. Two condensates are used for compensating the group velocity dispersion. Ultraslow light propagation through the condensate leads to a considerable increase in the cavity round-trip delay time, lowers the effective repetition rate of the laser, and hence scales up the output pulse energy. It has been recently argued that atom-atom interactions would make our proposal even more efficient. However, neither in our original proposal nor in the case of interactions, limitations due to heating of the condensates by optical energy absorption were taken into account. Our results show that there is a critical time of operation, $~0.3$ ms, for the optimal amplification factor, which is in the order of $\sim 10^2$ at effective condensate lengths in the order of $\sim 50$ $\mu$m. The bandwidth limitation of the amplifier on the minimum temporal width of the pulse that can be amplified with this technique is also discussed.

id: 1301.1869
title: First-order superfluid-Mott-insulator transition for quantum optical switching in cavity QED arrays with two cavity modes
authors: Kenji Kamide, Makoto Yamaguchi, Takashi Kimura, Tetsuo Ogawa
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures (corrected typos, added references, added discussions in section 2, results unchanged.)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053842 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1869
abstract: We theoretically investigated the ground states of coupled arrays of cavity quantum electrodynamical (cavity QED) systems in presence of two photon modes. Within the Gutzwiller-type variational approach, we found the first-order quantum phase transition between Mott insulating and superfluid phases as well as the conventional second-order one. The first-order phase transition was found only for specific types of emitter models, and its physical origin is clarified based on the analytic arguments which are allowed in the perturbative and semiclassical limits. The first-order transition of the correlated photons is accompanied with discontinuous change in the emitter states, not only with the appearance of inter-cavity coherence in the superfluid phase. We also discuss the condition for the first-order transition to occur, which can lead to a strategy for future design of quantum optical switching devices with cavity QED arrays.

id: 1301.1891
title: Deformed Heisenberg algebra with minimal length and equivalence principle
authors: V. M. Tkachuk
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062112 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1891
abstract: Studies in string theory and quantum gravity lead to the Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP) and suggest the existence of a fundamental minimal length which, as was established, can be obtained within the deformed Heisenberg algebra. The first look on the classical motion of bodies in a space with corresponding deformed Poisson brackets in a uniform gravitational field can give an impression that bodies of different mass fall in different ways and thus the equivalence principle is violated. Analyzing the kinetic energy of a composite body we find that the motion of its center of mass in the deformed space depends on some effective parameter of deformation. It gives a possibility to recover the equivalence principle in the space with deformed Poisson brackets. and thus GUP is reconciled with the equivalence principle. We also show that the independence of kinetic energy on composition leads to the recovering of the equivalence principle in the space with deformed Poisson brackets.

id: 1301.1916
title: Bohmian trajectory analysis of high-order harmonic generation: ensemble averages, non-locality and quantitative aspects
authors: J. Wu, B. B. Augstein, C. Figueira de Morisson Faria
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063416 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1916
abstract: We perform a Bohmian-trajectory analysis of high-order harmonic generation (HHG), focusing on the fact that typical HHG spectra are best reproduced by the Bohmian trajectory starting at the innermost part of the core [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{88}, 023415 (2013)]. Using ensemble averages around this central trajectory, we show that, for the high-plateau and cutoff harmonics, small ensembles of Bohmian trajectories are sufficient for a quantitative agreement with the numerical solution of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation (TDSE), while larger ensembles are necessary in the low-plateau region. Furthermore, we relate the Bohmian trajectories to the "short" and "long" trajectories encountered in the Strong-Field Approximation (SFA), and show that the time-frequency maps from the central Bohmian trajectory overestimate the contributions of the long SFA trajectory, in comparison to the outcome of the TDSE computations. We also discuss how the time-frequency profile of the central trajectory may be influenced nonlocally by degrading the wave-packet propagation far from the core.

id: 1301.1930
title: Role of marginality in quantum fidelity and Loschmidt echo: Dirac points in 2-D
authors: Aavishkar A. Patel, Shraddha Sharma, Amit Dutta
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: EPL, 102 (2013) 46001
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1930
abstract: We investigate the effect of marginality on the ground state fidelity and Loschmidt echo. For this purpose, we study the above quantities near the quantum critical point (QCP) of the two-dimensional (2-D) Dirac Hamiltonian in the presence of a mass term which is tuned to zero at the Dirac point. An ideal example would be that of the low-energy carriers in graphene in which a mass term opens up a band gap. This happens to be a marginal situation where the behavior of the fidelity and the echo is markedly different as compared to that in the one-dimensional case. We encounter this marginal behavior near the Dirac point, which is displayed in the absence of a sharp dip in the ground state fidelity (or equivalently in the logarithmic scaling of the fidelity susceptibility). Most importantly, there is also a logarithmic correction to the proposed scaling of the fidelity in the thermodynamic limit which can not be a priori anticipated from the predicted scaling form. Interestingly, a sharp dip in the ground state Loschmidt echo is also found to be absent near this QCP, which is again a consequence of the marginality. We also explain the absence of a sharp dip in both the fidelity and the Loschmidt echo close to the QCP in dimensions greater than two.

id: 1301.1938
title: Monte Carlo study of quantum phase transitions at zero temperature
authors: Oleg N. Osychenko
comments: Ph.D. thesis, Advisers: J. Boronat and G. E. Astrakharchik, 157 pages, 29 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1938
abstract: In this Ph.D. thesis quantum Monte Carlo methods are applied to investigate the properties of a number of ultracold quantum systems. In Chapter 1 we discuss the analytical approaches and approximations used in the subsequent Chapters; also we describe the general concepts of the two-particle scattering problem as a tool to construct Jastrow terms in trial wave functions. Chapter 2 explains in details the Quantum Monte Carlo methods employed in our calculations from the theoretical and practical points of view. In Chapter 3 we explain the Ewald summation technique, applied to a power-law 1/|r|k interaction potential, and a generic approach to obtain the Ewald terms. The obtained expressions of this analytic work are implemented into simulations of different physically relevant systems (Rydberg atoms and Yukawa particles). Chapter 5 is devoted to the modelling of a system, governed by the model potential between Rydberg atoms $1/r^6$. The phase diagram of the system is obtained for a relevant range of densities and temperatures, combining quantum simulations at low temperature and classical treatment at higher temperature. A special attention is paid to the classical description of this system, composed of Rydberg atoms, and its comparison to the quantum system. In Chapter 4 we present the simulation of a system with the Yukawa interaction potential. The following Chapter 6 presents the results of the Quantum Monte Carlo simulations of molecular para-hydrogen at zero and finite temperatures, performed in our Group. Conclusions are drawn in Chapter 7.

id: 1301.1939
title: Top-down fabrication of plasmonic nanostructures for deterministic coupling to single quantum emitters
authors: Wolfgang Pfaff, Arthur Vos, Ronald Hanson
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 113, 024310 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1939
abstract: Metal nanostructures can be used to harvest and guide the emission of single photon emitters on-chip via surface plasmon polaritons. In order to develop and characterize photonic devices based on emitter-plasmon hybrid structures a deterministic and scalable fabrication method for such structures is desirable. Here we demonstrate deterministic and scalable top-down fabrication of metal wires onto preselected nitrogen vacancy centers in nanodiamonds using clean room nano-fabrication methods. We observe a life-time reduction of the emitter emission that is consistent with earlier proof-of-principle experiments that used non-deterministic fabrication methods. This result indicates that top-down fabrication is a promising technique for processing future devices featuring single photon emitters and plasmonic nanostructures.

id: 1301.1962
title: Nonlinear photoemission from metal surfaces induced by short laser pulses: the effect of field enhancement by surface plasmons
authors: Sandor Varro, Norbert Kroo
comments: 14 pages and 4 figures
journal: Applied Physics B: Lasers and Optics Vol. 105, 509-515 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1962
abstract: Nonlinear electron emission processes induced by surface plasmon oscillations have been studied both experimentally and theoretically. The measured above-threshold electron spectra extend up to energies whose appearance cannot be explained solely by standard non-perturbative methods, which predict photon energy separated discrete energy line spectra with the known fast fall - plateau - cutoff envelope shape, even when taking the large field enhancement into account. The theoretical analysis of our data, based on the concept of plasmon-induced near-field effects, gives reasonably good explanation and qualitative agreement in the whole intensity range.

id: 1301.1963
title: Controlling spontaneous-emission noise in measurement-based feedback cooling of a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: M. R. Hush, S. S. Szigeti, A. R. R. Carvalho, J. J. Hope
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1963
abstract: Off-resonant optical imaging is the most popular method for continuous monitoring of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). However, the disturbance caused by scattered photons places a serious limitation on the lifetime of such continuously-monitored condensates. In this paper, we demonstrate that a new choice of feedback control can overcome the heating effects of the measurement backaction. In particular, we show that the measurement backaction caused by off-resonant optical imaging is a multimode quantum-field effect, as the entire heating process is not seen in single-particle or mean-field models of the system. Correctly simulating such continuously-monitored systems is only possible using the number-phase Wigner (NPW) particle filter, which is a hybrid between the leading techniques for simulating non-equilibrium dynamics in condensates and particle filters for simulating high-dimensional non-Gaussian filters in the field of engineering. The new control scheme will enable long-term continuous measurement and feedback on one of the leading platforms for precision measurement and the simulation of quantum fields, allowing for the possibility of single-shot experiments, adaptive measurements and robust state-preparation and manipulation.

id: 1301.1972
title: Historical Parallels between, and Modal Realism underlying Einstein and Everett Relativities
authors: Sascha Vongehr
comments: 21 (double spaced) pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1972
abstract: A century ago, "past" and "future", previously strictly apart, mixed up and merged. Temporal terminology improved. Today, not actualized quantum states, that is merely "possible" alternatives, objectively "exist" (are real) when they interfere. Again, two previously strictly immiscible realms mix. Now, modal terminology is insufficient. Both times, extreme reactions reach from rejection of the empirical science to mystic holism. This paper shows how progress started with the relativization of previously absolute terms, first through Einstein's relativity and now through Everett's relative state description, which is a modal realism. The historical parallels suggest mere relativization is insufficient. A deformation of domains occurs: The determined past and the dependent future were restricted to smaller regions of space-time. This light cone description is superior to hyperspace foliations and already entails the modal realism of quantum mechanics. Moreover, an entirely new region, namely the "absolute elsewhere" was identified. The historical precedent suggests that modal terminology may need a similar extension. Discussing the modal realistic connection underlying both relativities, Popper's proof of future indeterminism is turned to shatter the past already into many worlds/minds, thus Everett relativity is merely the Bell inequality violating correlation between possible empirical records.

id: 1301.1979
title: Hybrid high-temperature superconductor-semiconductor tunnel diode
authors: Alex Hayat, Parisa Zareapour, Shu Yang F. Zhao, Achint Jain, Igor G. Savelyev, Marina Blumin, Zhijun Xu, Alina Yang, G. D. Gu, Harry E. Ruda, Shuang Jia, R. J. Cava, Aephraim M. Steinberg, Kenneth S. Burch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. X 2, 041019 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.1979
abstract: We report the demonstration of hybrid high-Tc-superconductor-semiconductor tunnel junctions, enabling new interdisciplinary directions in condensed matter research. The devices were fabricated by our newly-developed mechanical bonding technique, resulting in high-Tc-semiconductor planar junctions acting as superconducting tunnel diodes. Tunneling-spectra characterization of the hybrid junctions of Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+{\delta} combined with bulk GaAs, or a GaAs/AlGaAs quantum well, exhibits excess voltage and nonlinearity - in good agreement with theoretical predictions for a d-wave superconductor-normal material junction, and similar to spectra obtained in scanning tunneling microscopy. Additional junctions are demonstrated using Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+{\delta} combined with graphite or Bi2Te3. Our results pave the way for new methods in unconventional superconductivity studies, novel materials and quantum technology applications.

id: 1301.2006
title: Large-scale atomistic density functional theory calculations of phosphorus-doped silicon quantum bits
authors: Loren Greenman, Heather D. Whitley, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2006
abstract: We present density functional theory calculations of phosphorus dopants in bulk silicon and of several properties relating to their use as spin qubits for quantum computation. Rather than a mixed pseudopotential or a Heitler-London approach, we have used an explicit treatment for the phosphorus donor and examined the detailed electronic structure of the system as a function of the isotropic doping fraction, including lattice relaxation due to the presence of the impurity. Doping electron densities and spin densities are examined in order to study the properties of the dopant electron as a function of the isotropic doping fraction. Doping potentials are also calculated for use in calculations of the scattering cross-sections of the phosphorus dopants, which are important in the understanding of electrically detected magnetic resonance experiments. We find that the electron density around the dopant leads to non-spherical features in the doping potentials, such as trigonal lobes in the (001) plane at energy scales of +12 eV near the nucleus and of -700 meV extending away from the dopants. These features are generally neglected in effective mass theory and will affect the coupling between the donor electron and the phosphorus nucleus. Our density functional calculations reveal detail in the densities and potentials of the dopants which are not evident in calculations that do not include explicit treatment of the phosphorus donor atom and relaxation of the crystal lattice. These details can also be used to parameterize tight-binding models for simulation of large-scale devices.

id: 1301.2035
title: Pseudo Hermitian Generalized Dirac Oscillators
authors: D. Dutta, O. Panella, P. Roy
comments: To appear in Annals of Physics (Elsevier)
journal: Annals of Physics 331 (2013) 120-126
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2035
abstract: We study generalized Dirac oscillators with complex interactions in $(1+1)$ dimensions. It is shown that for the choice of interactions considered here, the Dirac Hamiltonians are $\eta$ pseudo Hermitian with respect to certain metric operators $\eta$. Exact solutions of the generalized Dirac Oscillator for some choices of the interactions have also been obtained. It is also shown that generalized Dirac oscillators can be identified with Anti Jaynes Cummings type model and by spin flip it can also be identified with Jaynes Cummings type model.

id: 1301.2056
title: Non-Hermitian CP-Symmetric Dirac Hamiltonians with Real Energy Eigenvalues
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 8 pages, 2 tables, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 377 (2013) pp. 2003-2006
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2056
abstract: We present a large class of non-Hermitian non-PT-symmetric two-component Dirac Hamiltoninas with real energy spectra. These Hamiltonians are invariant under the combined action of "charge" conjugation (two-component transpose) and space-parity. Examples are given from the two subclasses of these systems having localized and/or continuum states with real energies.

id: 1301.2101
title: On spectral method in the axial channeling theory
authors: N. F. Shul'ga, V. V. Syshchenko, V. S. Neryabova
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, presented on the conference "Channeling-2012", 23-28 September 2012 Alghero, Sardegna, Italy; accepted for publication in Nuclear Instruments and Methods B
journal: Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research B 309 (2013) 153-156
subjects: Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2101
abstract: The quantization of the transverse motion energy in the continuous potentials of atomic strings and planes can take place under passage of fast charged particles through crystals. The energy levels for electron moving in axial channeling regime in a system of parallel atomic strings (for instance, [110] strings of a silicon crystal) are found in this work for the electron energy of order of several tens of MeV, when a total number of energy levels becomes large (up to several hundreds). High resolution of the spectral method used for energy level search has been demonstrated. Hence this method could be useful for investigation of quantum chaos problem.

id: 1301.2159
title: Bound states of Dipolar Bosons in One-dimensional Systems
authors: A. G. Volosniev, J. R. Armstrong, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, M. Valiente, N. T. Zinner
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures, revised version
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 043046
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2159
abstract: We consider one-dimensional tubes containing bosonic polar molecules. The long-range dipole-dipole interactions act both within a single tube and between different tubes. We consider arbitrary values of the externally aligned dipole moments with respect to the symmetry axis of the tubes. The few-body structures in this geometry are determined as function of polarization angles and dipole strength by using both essentially exact stochastic variational methods and the harmonic approximation. The main focus is on the three, four, and five-body problems in two or more tubes. Our results indicate that in the weakly-coupled limit the inter-tube interaction is similar to a zero-range term with a suitable rescaled strength. This allows us to address the corresponding many-body physics of the system by constructing a model where bound chains with one molecule in each tube are the effective degrees of freedom. This model can be mapped onto one-dimensional Hamiltonians for which exact solutions are known.

id: 1301.2199
title: Truncated many-body dynamics of interacting bosons: A variational principle with error monitoring
authors: Kang-Soo Lee, Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 12 pages of RevTex4-1
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 28, 1550021 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2199
abstract: We develop a method to describe the temporal evolution of an interacting system of bosons, for which the field operator expansion is truncated after a finite number $M$ of modes, in a rigorously controlled manner. Using McLachlan's principle of least error, we find a self-consistent set of equations for the many-body state. As a particular benefit, and in distinction to previously proposed approaches, the presently introduced method facilitates the dynamical increase of the number of orbitals during the temporal evolution, due to the fact that we can rigorously monitor the error made by increasing the truncation dimension $M$. The additional orbitals, determined by the condition of least error of the truncated evolution relative to the exact one, are obtained from an initial trial state by steepest $constrained$ descent.

id: 1301.2226
title: Topological Signatures in the Electronic Structure of Graphene Spirals
authors: Stas M. Avdoshenko, Pekka Koskinen, Haldun Sevincli, Alexey Popov, Claudia Rocha
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1632 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2226
abstract: Topology is familiar mostly from mathematics, but also natural sciences have found its concepts useful. Those concepts have been used to explain several natural phenomena in biology and physics, and they are particularly relevant for the electronic structure description of topological insulators and graphene systems. Here, we introduce topologically distinct graphene forms - graphene spirals - and employ density-functional theory to investigate their geometric and electronic properties. We found that the spiral topology gives rise to an intrinsic Rashba spin-orbit splitting. Through a Hamiltonian constrained by space curvature, graphene spirals have topologically protected states due to time-reversal symmetry. In addition, we argue that the synthesis of such graphene spirals is feasible and can be achieved through advanced bottom-up experimental routes that we indicate in this work.

id: 1301.2229
title: Normal modes of the d>1 fermion gas
authors: Daniel Mattis
comments: 52 pages, 5 figures, prepared as chapter for forthcoming book on 60 years of the Luttinger Model
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2229
abstract: In the present work we solve the many-fermion problem in dimensions greater than one by identifying its normal modes. We start by decomposing the Fermi sea into independent sectors labeled by a wavevector q. The product of exactly calculable eigenstates, one from each sector, is an exact eigenstate of the full many-body problem. We examine bosonization of fermions, exchange and pairing forces and quasiparticles, all from this point of view.

id: 1301.2329
title: Microscopic theory of non-adiabatic response in real and imaginary time
authors: C. De Grandi, A. Polkovnikov, A. W. Sandvik
comments: 22 pages, 10 figures, revised version, contribution to the special issue of J. Phys. Condensed Matter: "Condensed matter analogues of cosmology", edited by T. Kibble and Ajit Srivastava
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 25 (2013) 404216
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2329
abstract: We present a general approach to describe slowly driven quantum systems both in real and imaginary time. We highlight many similarities, qualitative and quantitative, between real and imaginary time evolution. We discuss how the metric tensor and the Berry curvature can be extracted from both real and imaginary time simulations as a response of physical observables. For quenches ending at or near the quantum critical point, we show the utility of the scaling theory for detecting the location of the quantum critical point by comparing sweeps at different velocities. We briefly discuss the universal relaxation to equilibrium of systems after a quench. We finally review recent developments of quantum Monte Carlo methods for studying imaginary-time evolution. We illustrate our findings with explicit calculations using the transverse field Ising model in one dimension.

id: 1301.2471
title: Pulsed homodyne Gaussian quantum tomography with low detection efficiency
authors: Martina Esposito, Fabio Benatti, Roberto Floreanini, Stefano Olivares, Francesco Randi, Kelvin Titimbo, Marco Pividori, Fabio Novelli, Federico Cilento, Fulvio Parmigiani, Daniele Fausti
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 16 (2014) 043004
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2471
abstract: Pulsed homodyne quantum tomography usually requires a high detection efficiency limiting its applicability in quantum optics. Here, it is shown that the presence of low detection efficiency ($<50\%$) does not prevent the tomographic reconstruction of quantum states of light, specifically, of Gaussian type. This result is obtained by applying the so-called "minimax" adaptive reconstruction of the Wigner function to pulsed homodyne detection. In particular, we prove, by both numerical and real experiments, that an effective discrimination of different Gaussian quantum states can be achieved. Our finding paves the way to a more extensive use of quantum tomographic methods, even in physical situations in which high detection efficiency is unattainable.

id: 1301.2516
title: New Light on Infrared Problems: Sectors, Statistics, Spectrum and All That
authors: Detlev Buchholz
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. Talk given at XVIIth International Congress on Mathematical Physics, Aalborg, 6-11 August 2012; to appear in the proceedings. version 2: unchanged, but layout problems solved
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2516
abstract: Within the general setting of algebraic quantum field theory, a new approach to the analysis of the physical state space of a theory is presented; it covers theories with long range forces, such as quantum electrodynamics. Making use of the notion of charge class, which generalizes the concept of superselection sector, infrared problems are avoided. In fact, on this basis one can determine and classify in a systematic manner the proper charge content of a theory, the statistics of the corresponding states and their spectral properties. A key ingredient in this approach is the fact that in real experiments the arrow of time gives rise to a Lorentz invariant infrared cutoff of a purely geometric nature.

id: 1301.2563
title: Noncommutative spectral geometry and the deformed Hopf algebra structure of quantum field theory
authors: Mairi Sakellariadou, Antonio Stabile, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 11 pages. Invited talk in the Sixth International Workshop DICE2012, Castello Pasquini/Castiglioncello (Tuscany), September 17-21, 2012
journal: Conference Series Vol. 442 (2013) 012016
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2563
abstract: We report the results obtained in the study of Alain Connes noncommutative spectral geometry construction focusing on its essential ingredient of the algebra doubling. We show that such a two-sheeted structure is related with the gauge structure of the theory, its dissipative character and carries in itself the seeds of quantization. From the algebraic point of view, the algebra doubling process has the same structure of the deformed Hops algebra structure which characterizes quantum field theory.

id: 1301.2586
title: On the Consistency of the Consistent Histories Approach to Quantum Mechanics
authors: Elias Okon, Daniel Sudarsky
comments: 20 pages
journal: Found Phys (2014) 44 p. 19
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2586
abstract: The Consistent Histories (CH) formalism aims at a quantum mechanical framework which could be applied even to the universe as a whole. CH stresses the importance of histories for quantum mechanics, as opposed to measurements, and maintains that a satisfactory formulation of quantum mechanics allows one to assign probabilities to alternative histories of a quantum system. It further proposes that each realm, that is, each set of histories to which probabilities can be assigned, provides a valid quantum-mechanical account, but that different realms can be mutually incompatible. Finally, some of its proponents offer an "evolutionary" explanation of our existence in the universe and of our preference for quasiclassical descriptions of nature. The present work questions the validity of claims offered by CH proponents asserting that it solves many interpretational problems in quantum mechanics. In particular, we point out that the interpretation of the framework leaves vague two crucial points, namely, whether realms are fixed or chosen and the link between measurements and histories. Our claim is that by doing so, CH overlooks the main interpretational problems of quantum mechanics. Furthermore, we challenge the evolutionary explanation offered and we critically examine the proposed notion of a realm-dependent reality.

id: 1301.2625
title: Abelian Chern-Simons-Maxwell theory from a tight binding model of spinless fermions
authors: Giandomenico Palumbo, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 4.5 pages, 2 figures, version to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 211603 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2625
abstract: Abelian Chern-Simons-Maxwell theory can emerge from the bosonisation of the 2+1-dimensional Thirring model that describes interacting Dirac fermions. Here we show how the Thirring model manifests itself in the low energy limit of a two-dimensional tight-binding model of spinless fermions. To establish that we employ a modification of Haldane's model, where the "doubling" of fermions is rectified by adiabatic elimination. Subsequently, fermionic interactions are introduced that lead to the analytically tractable Thirring model. By local density measurements of the lattice fermions we can establish that for specific values of the couplings the model exhibits the confining 2+1-dimensional QED phase or a topological ordered phase that corresponds to the Chern-Simons theory. The implementation of the model as well as the measurement protocol are accessible with current technology of cold atoms in optical lattices.

id: 1301.2742
title: Momentum Operators in The Unit Square
authors: Steen Pedersen, Feng Tian
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2742
abstract: We investigate the skew-adjoint extensions of a partial derivative operator acting in the direction of one of the sides a unit square. We investigate the unitary equivalence of such extensions and the spectra of such extensions. It follows from our results, that such extensions need not have discete spectrum. We apply our techniques to the problem of finding commuting skew-adjoint extensions of the partial derivative operators acting in the directions of the sides of the unit square. While our results are most easily stated for the unit square, they are established for a larger class of domains, including certain fractal domains.

id: 1301.2766
title: Tunneling Time in Ultrafast Science is Real and Probabilistic
authors: Alexandra Landsman, Matthias Weger, Jochen Maurer, Robert Boge, Andr¨¦ Ludwig, Sebastian Heuser, Claudio Cirelli, Lukas Gallmann, Ursula Keller
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optica, Vol. 1, Issue 5, pp. 343-349 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2766
abstract: We compare the main competing theories of tunneling time against experimental measurements using the attoclock in strong laser field ionization of helium atoms. Refined attoclock measurements reveal a real and not instantaneous tunneling delay time over a large intensity regime, using two different experimental apparatus. Only two of the theoretical predictions are compatible within our experimental error: the Larmor time, and the probability distribution of tunneling times constructed using a Feynman Path Integral (FPI) formulation. The latter better matches the observed qualitative change in tunneling time over a wide intensity range, and predicts a broad tunneling time distribution with a long tail. The implication of such a probability distribution of tunneling times, as opposed to a distinct tunneling time, challenges how valence electron dynamics are currently reconstructed in attosecond science. It means that one must account for a significant uncertainty as to when the hole dynamics begin to evolve.

id: 1301.2803
title: Heating dynamics of bosonic atoms in a noisy optical lattice
authors: Hannes Pichler, Johannes Schachenmayer, Andrew J. Daley, Peter Zoller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 033606 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2803
abstract: We analyze the heating of interacting bosonic atoms in an optical lattice due to intensity fluctuations of the lasers forming the lattice. We focus in particular on fluctuations at low frequencies below the band gap frequency, such that the dynamics is restricted to the lowest band. We derive stochastic equations of motion, and analyze the effects on different many-body states, characterizing heating processes in both strongly and weakly interacting regimes. In the limit where the noise spectrum is flat at low frequencies, we can derive an effective Master equation describing the dynamics. We compute heating rates and changes to characteristic correlation functions both in the perturbation theory limit, and using a full time-dependent calculation of the stochastic many-body dynamics in 1D based on time-dependent density-matrix-renormalization-group methods.

id: 1301.2869
title: Superfluid and magnetic states of an ultracold Bose gas with synthetic three-dimensional spin-orbit coupling in an optical lattice
authors: Dan-Wei Zhang, Ji-Pei Chen, Chuan-Jia Shan, Z. D. Wang, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; title modified, references and discussions added; accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013612 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2869
abstract: We study ultracold bosonic atoms with the synthetic three-dimensional spin-orbit (SO) coupling in a cubic optical lattice. In the superfluidity phase, the lowest energy band exhibits one, two or four pairs of degenerate single-particle ground states depending on the SO-coupling strengths, which can give rise to the condensate states with spin-stripes for the weak atomic interactions. In the deep Mott-insulator regime, the effective spin Hamiltonian of the system combines three-dimensional Heisenberg exchange interactions, anisotropy interactions and Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interactions. Based on Monte Carlo simulations, we numerically demonstrate that the resulting Hamiltonian with an additional Zeeman field has a rich phase diagram with spiral, stripe, vortex crystal, and especially Skyrmion crystal spin-textures in each xy-plane layer. The obtained Skyrmion crystals can be tunable with square and hexagonal symmetries in a columnar manner along the z axis, and moreover are stable against the inter-layer spin-spin interactions in a large parameter region.

id: 1301.2900
title: Exceptional Points, Nonnormal Matrices, Hierarchy of Spin Matrices and an Eigenvalue Problem
authors: Willi-Hans Steeb, Yorick Hardy
comments: general improvements, references added, measure of nonnormality introduced
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics C 25, 1450059 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2900
abstract: Exceptional points of a class of non-hermitian Hamilton operators $\hat H$ of the form $\hat H=\hat H_0+i\hat H_1$ are studied, where $\hat H_0$ and $\hat H_1$ are hermitian operators. Finite dimensional Hilbert spaces are considered. The linear operators $\hat H_0$ and $\hat H_1$ are given by spin matrices for spin $s=1/2,1,3/2,\dots$. Since the linear operators studied are nonnormal, properties of such operators are described.

id: 1301.2968
title: Phonon-induced spin-spin interactions in diamond nanostructures: application to spin squeezing
authors: S. D. Bennett, N. Y. Yao, J. Otterbach, P. Zoller, P. Rabl, M. D. Lukin
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 156402 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2968
abstract: We propose and analyze a novel mechanism for long-range spin-spin interactions in diamond nanostructures. The interactions between electronic spins, associated with nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond, are mediated by their coupling via strain to the vibrational mode of a diamond mechanical nanoresonator. This coupling results in phonon-mediated effective spin-spin interactions that can be used to generate squeezed states of a spin ensemble. We show that spin dephasing and relaxation can be largely suppressed, allowing for substantial spin squeezing under realistic experimental conditions. Our approach has implications for spin-ensemble magnetometry, as well as phonon-mediated quantum information processing with spin qubits.

id: 1301.2981
title: Trace of phase-space noncommutativity in the response of a free particle to linearized gravitational waves
authors: Sunandan Gangopadhyay, Anirban Saha, Swarup Saha
comments: 9 pages, Latex, Published version, discussions and references added
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A28 (2013) 35, 1350161
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.2981
abstract: Interaction of linearized gravitational waves with a otherwise free particle has been studied quantum mechanically in a noncommutative phase-space to examine whether the particle's response to the gravitational wave gets modified due to spatial and/or momentum noncommutativity. The result shows that momentum noncommutativity introduces a oscillatory noise with a specific frequency determined by the fundamental momentum scale and particle mass. Because of the global nature of the phase-space noncommutativity such noise will have similar characteristics for all detector sites and thus will stand out in a data cross-correlation procedure. If detected, this noise will provide evidence of momentum noncommutativity and also an estimation of the relevant noncommutative parameter.

id: 1301.3018
title: Non-destructive Faraday imaging of dynamically controlled ultracold atoms
authors: Miroslav Gajdacz, Poul L. Pedersen, Troels M?rch, Andrew J. Hilliard, Jan Arlt, Jacob F. Sherson
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 84, 083105 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3018
abstract: We describe an easily implementable method for non-destructive measurements of ultracold atomic clouds based on dark field imaging of spatially resolved Faraday rotation. The signal-to-noise ratio is analyzed theoretically and, in the absence of experimental imperfections, the sensitivity limit is found to be identical to other conventional dispersive imaging techniques. The dependence on laser detuning, atomic density and temperature is characterized in a detailed comparison with theory. Due to low destructiveness, spatially resolved images of the same cloud can be acquired up to 2000 times. The technique is applied to avoid the effect of shot-to-shot fluctuations in atom number calibration, to demonstrate single-run vector magnetic field imaging and single-run spatial imaging of the system's dynamic behavior. This demonstrates that the method is a useful tool for the characterization of static and dynamically changing properties of ultracold atomic clouds.

id: 1301.3116
title: An Area Law for the Bipartite Entanglement of Disordered Oscillator Systems
authors: Bruno Nachtergaele, Robert Sims, Gunter Stolz
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 042110 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3116
abstract: We prove an upper bound proportional to the surface area for the bipartite entanglement of the ground state and thermal states of harmonic oscillator systems with disorder, as measured by the logarithmic negativity. Our assumptions are satisfied for some standard models that are almost surely gapless in the thermodynamic limit.

id: 1301.3181
title: Laser cooling and trapping of potassium at magic wavelengths
authors: M. S. Safronova, U. I. Safronova, Charles W. Clark
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1206.7115
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3181
abstract: We carry out a systematic study of the static and dynamic polarizabilities of the potassium atom using a first-principles high-precision relativistic all-order method in which all single, double, and partial triple excitations of the Dirac-Fock wave functions are included to all orders of perturbation theory. Recommended values are provided for a large number of electric-dipole matrix elements. Static polarizabilities of the 4s, 4p_j, 5s, 5p_j, and 3d_j states are compared with other theory and experiment where available. We use the results of the polarizability calculations to identify magic wavelengths for the 4s-np transitions for $n = 4, 5$, i.e. those wavelengths for which the two levels have the same ac Stark shifts. These facilitate state-insensitive optical cooling and trapping. The magic wavelengths for the $4s-5p$ transitions are of particular interest for attaining a quantum gas of potassium at high phase-space density. We find 20 such wavelengths in the technically interest region of 1050-1130 nm. Uncertainties of all recommended values are estimated.

id: 1301.3206
title: Fractional Green's function for the time-dependent scattering problem in the Space-time-fractional quantum mechanics
authors: Dong Jianping
comments: 9 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1301.1006
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3206
abstract: Integral form of the space-time-fractional Schr\"odinger equation for the scattering problem in the fractional quantum mechanics is studied in this paper. We define the fractional Green's function for the space-time fractional Schrodinger equation and express it in terms of Fox's H-function and in a computable series form. The asymptotic formula of the Green's function for large argument is also obtained, and applied to study the fractional quantum scattering problem. We get the approximate scattering wave function with correction of every order.

id: 1301.3228
title: Stress- and temperature-dependent hysteresis in shear modulus of solid helium
authors: D. Y. Kim, E. S. H. Kang, E. Kim, H. C. Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3228
abstract: The shear modulus of solid 4He below 200 mK exhibits an unusual increase, the characteristics of which show remarkable similarities to those of the period reduction in torsional oscillator experiments. We systematically studied the drive strain and temperature dependence of the shear modulus at low temperatures. The hysteretic behavior depends strongly on the drive and cooling history, which can be associated with the thermally assisted Granato-Lucke dislocation theory. The phase diagram of the shear modulus is constructed on the basis of the emerging hysteretic behavior.

id: 1301.3251
title: Phase diagram of a rapidly-rotating two-component Bose gas
authors: E. ?. Karabulut, F. Malet, G. M. Kavoulakis, S. M. Reimann
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043609 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3251
abstract: We derive analytically the phase diagram of a two-component Bose gas confined in an anharmonic potential, which becomes exact and universal in the limit of weak interactions and small anharmonicity of the trapping potential. The transitions between the different phases, which consist of vortex states of single and multiple quantization, are all continuous because of the addition of the second component.

id: 1301.3332
title: Entropic Functionals in Quantum Statistical Mechanics
authors: V. Jaksic, C.-A. Pillet
comments: To appear in the Proceedings of the XVIIth International Congress of Mathematical Physics, Aalborg, Denmark, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3332
abstract: We describe quantum entropic functionals and outline a research program dealing with entropic fluctuations in non-equilibrium quantum statistical mechanics.

id: 1301.3351
title: Quantum coherence in an all-solid-state dye-sentizied solar cell
authors: C. Benedek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3351
abstract: The reported new type of all-solid-state, inorganic solar cell will be discussed by a semiclassical light-matter interaction method. The molecular compound will be treated by a three times two-level coupled quantum system. The equation of motion of the density matrix of this system will be analytical solved, in linear approximation and due to the coherent superposition of certain states, time-independent off-diagonal elements will be obtained. These elements represent an important components for the overal optical performane of this cell.

id: 1301.3361
title: Time delays and advances in classical and quantum systems
authors: E. E. Kolomeitsev, D. N. Voskresensky
comments: 105 pages, 13 figures, revised version, typos corrected, references added
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3361
abstract: The paper reviews positive and negative time delays in various processes of classical and quantum physics. In the beginning, we demonstrate how a time-shifted response of a system to an external perturbation appears in classical mechanics and classical electrodynamics. Then we quantify durations of various quantum mechanical processes. The duration of the quantum tunneling is studied. An interpretation of the Hartman paradox is suggested. Time delays and advances appearing in the three-dimensional scattering problem on a central potential are considered. Then we discuss delays and advances appearing in quantum field theory and after that we focus on the issue of time delays and advancements in quantum kinetics. We discuss problems of the application of generalized kinetic equations in simulations of the system relaxation towards equilibrium and analyze the kinetic entropy flow. Possible measurements of time delays and advancements in experiments similar to the recent OPERA neutrino experiment are also discussed.

id: 1301.3386
title: Full characterization of the quantum linear-zigzag transition in atomic chains
authors: Pietro Silvi, Gabriele De Chiara, Tommaso Calarco, Giovanna Morigi, Simone Montangero
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 525, No. 10-11, 827-832 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3386
abstract: A string of repulsively interacting particles exhibits a phase transition to a zigzag structure, by reducing the transverse trap potential or the interparticle distance. The transition is driven by transverse, short wavelength vibrational modes. Based on the emergent symmetry Z_2 it has been argued that this instability is a quantum phase transition, which can be mapped to an Ising model in transverse field. We perform an extensive Density Matrix Renormalization Group analysis of the behaviour at criticality and evaluate the critical exponents and the central charge with high precision. We thus provide strong numerical evidence confirming that the quantum linear-zigzag transition belongs to the critical Ising model universality class. These results show that structural instabilities of one-dimensional interacting atomic arrays can simulate quantum critical phenomena typical of ferromagnetic systems.

id: 1301.3442
title: Entanglement witnesses for a class of bipartite states of n x n qubits
authors: Fabio Benatti, Mahya Karbalaii
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3442
abstract: We characterize the positive maps detecting the entangled bipartite states of n x n qubits that are diagonal with respect to the orthonormal basis constructed by tensor products of Pauli matrices acting on the totally symmetric state. We then discuss the case n=2 for a class of states completely determined by the geometric patterns of subsets of a 16 point lattice.

id: 1301.3450
title: Unified ab initio approach to bound and unbound states: no-core shell model with continuum and its application to 7He
authors: Simone Baroni, Petr Navratil, Sofia Quaglioni
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3450
abstract: We introduce a unified approach to nuclear bound and continuum states based on the coupling of the no-core shell model (NCSM), a bound-state technique, with the no-core shell model/resonating group method (NCSM/RGM), a nuclear scattering technique. This new ab initio method, no-core shell model with continuum (NCSMC), leads to convergence properties superior to either NCSM or NCSM/RGM while providing a balanced approach to different classes of states. In the NCSMC, the ansatz for the many-nucleon wave function includes: i) a square-integrable A-nucleon component expanded in a complete harmonic oscillator basis; ii) a binary-cluster component with asymptotic boundary conditions that can properly describe weakly-bound states, resonances and scattering; and, in principle, iii) a three-cluster component suitable for the description of, e.g., Borromean halo nuclei and reactions with final three-body states. The Schroedinger equation is transformed into a system of coupled-channel integral-differential equations that we solve using a modified microscopic R-matrix formalism within a Lagrange mesh basis. We demonstrate the usefulness of the approach by investigating the unbound 7He nucleus.

id: 1301.3487
title: Dynamical localization in kicked rotator as a paradigm of other systems: spectral statistics and the localization measure
authors: Thanos Manos, Marko Robnik
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, submitted in Proceedings of the European Conference on Complex Systems (2012)
journal: Proceedings of the European Conference on Complex Systems 2012, Springer Proceedings in Complexity, 15-21, 2013
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3487
abstract: We study the intermediate statistics of the spectrum of quasi-energies and of the eigenfunctions in the kicked rotator, in the case when the corresponding system is fully chaotic while quantally localized. As for the eigenphases, we find clear evidence that the spectral statistics is well described by the Brody distribution, notably better than by the Izrailev's one, which has been proposed and used broadly to describe such cases. We also studied the eigenfunctions of the Floquet operator and their localization. We show the existence of a scaling law between the repulsion parameter with relative localization length, but only as a first order approximation, since another parameter plays a role. We believe and have evidence that a similar analysis applies in time-independent Hamilton systems.

id: 1301.3553
title: Glassy dynamics and Landau-Zener phenomena in trapped quasi-one dimensional coupled Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Santiago F. Caballero-Benitez, Rosario Paredes
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures (added references)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3553
abstract: The purpose of this article is to address the dynamics of an interacting Bose-Einstein condensate confined in coupled one-dimensional Landau-Zener arrays under the influence of disorder and harmonic confinement. In particular, we concentrate in studying the interplay of disorder and interparticle interaction on the transfer of atoms depending on the speed of Landau-Zener sweeps. A dynamical phase diagram summarizing the final situation across ground state and inverse sweeps is given in terms of the effect of disorder, interaction and the speed of the sweeps.

id: 1301.3565
title: Vortex lattice solutions to the Gross-Pitaevskii equation with spin-orbit coupling in optical lattices
authors: Hidetsugu Sakaguchi, Ben Li
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3565
abstract: Effective spin-orbit coupling can be created in cold atom systems using atom-light interaction. We study the BECs in an optical lattice using the Gross-Pitaevskii equation with spin-orbit coupling. Bloch states for the linear equation are numerically obtained, and compared with stationary solutions to the Gross-Pitaevskii equation with nonlinear terms. Various vortex lattice states are found when the spin-orbit coupling is strong.

id: 1301.3634
title: Pulsed squeezed-light generation in a waveguide with second-subharmonic generation and periodic corrugation
authors: Jan Perina Jr
comments: 18 pages, 20 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013833 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3634
abstract: Quantum pulsed second-subharmonic generation in a planar waveguide with a small periodic corrugation at the surface is studied. Back-scattering of the interacting fields on the corrugation enhances the nonlinear interaction giving larger values of squeezing. The problem of back-scattering is treated by perturbation theory, using the Fourier transform for non-dispersion propagation, and by numerical approach in the general case. Optimum spectral modes for squeezed-light generation are found using the Bloch-Messiah reduction. Improvement in squeezing and increase of numbers of generated photons are quantified for the corrugation resonating with the fundamental and second-subharmonic field. Splitting of the generated pulse by the corrugation is predicted.

id: 1301.3694
title: Realization of associative products in terms of Moyal and tomographic symbols
authors: A. Ibort, V. I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, A. Simoni, C. Stornaiolo, F. Ventriglia
comments: 13 pages. To appear on Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3694
abstract: The quantizer-dequantizer method allows to construct associative products on any measure space. Here we consider an inverse problem: given an associative product is it possible to realize it within the quantizer-dequantizer framework? The answer is positive in finite dimensions and we give a few examples in infinite dimensions.

id: 1301.3696
title: Quantum dynamics of evolution of flat universe in the first stage
authors: Sergei P. Maydanyuk
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3696
abstract: Process of formation of the universe with its further expansion in the first evolution stage is investigated in the framework of Friedmann-Robertson-Walker metrics on the basis of quantum model, where a new type of matter is introduced, which energy density is dependent on velocity of the expansion. It is shown that such an improvement of the model forms potential barrier for the flat universe at $k=0$ (in contrast with generalized Chaplygin gas model). Peculiarities of wave function are analyzed in details, which is calculated by fully quantum (non-semiclassic) approach, for the different barrier regions and stages of evolution. Resonant influence of the initial and boundary conditions on the barrier penetrability is shown (in contrast with Vilenkin and Hawking approaches). In order to perform a comparative analysis, how much quickly the universe is expanded by different models, new quantum definitions of velocity and Hubble function are introduced. These notions allow us to study dynamics of evolution of universe in quantum cosmology both in the first stage, and in later times.

id: 1301.3735
title: Topological pumping in the one-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Davide Rossini, Marco Gibertini, Vittorio Giovannetti, Rosario Fazio
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 085131 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3735
abstract: By means of time-dependent density matrix renormalization group calculations we study topological quantum pumping in a strongly interacting system. The system under consideration is described by the Hamiltonian of a one-dimensional extended Bose-Hubbard model in the presence of a correlated hopping which breaks lattice inversion symmetry. This model has been predicted to support topological pumping [E. Berg, M. Levin, and E. Altman, Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 110405 (2011)]. The pumped charge is quantized and of topological nature. We provide a detailed analysis of the finite-size-scaling behavior of the pumped charge and its deviations from the quantized value. Furthermore we also analyze the non-adiabatic corrections due to the finite frequency of the modulation. We consider two configurations: a closed ring where the time-dependence of the parameter induces a circulating current, and a finite open-ended chain where particles are dragged from one edge to the opposite edge, due to the pumping mechanism induced by the bulk.

id: 1301.3778
title: The quantum transverse-field Ising chain in circuit QED: effects of disorder on the nonequilibrium dynamics
authors: Oliver Viehmann, Jan von Delft, Florian Marquardt
comments: 28 pages, 8 figures, version as published
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 035013 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3778
abstract: We study several dynamical properties of a recently proposed implementation of the quantum transverse-field Ising chain in the framework of circuit QED. Particular emphasis is placed on the effects of disorder on the nonequilibrium behavior of the system. We show that small amounts of fabrication-induced disorder in the system parameters do not jeopardize the observation of previously-predicted phenomena. Based on a numerical extraction of the mean free path of the system, we also provide a simple quantitative estimate for certain disorder effects on the nonequilibrium dynamics of the circuit QED quantum simulator. We discuss the transition from weak to strong disorder, characterized by the onset of Anderson localization of the system's wave functions, and the qualitatively different dynamics it leads to.

id: 1301.3806
title: Time evolution of local observables after quenching to an integrable model
authors: Jean-Sebastien Caux, Fabian H. L. Essler
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 257203 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3806
abstract: We consider quantum quenches in integrable models. We argue that the behaviour of local observables at late times after the quench is given by their expectation values with respect to a single representative Hamiltonian eigenstate. This can be viewed as a generalization of the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis to quantum integrable models. We present a method for constructing this representative state by means of a generalized Thermodynamic Bethe Ansatz (GTBA). Going further, we introduce a framework for calculating the time dependence of local observables as they evolve towards their stationary values. As an explicit example we consider quantum quenches in the transverse-field Ising chain and show that previously derived results are recovered efficiently within our framework.

id: 1301.3908
title: Relaxation of weakly interacting electrons in one dimension
authors: Zoran Ristivojevic, K. A. Matveev
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 165108 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3908
abstract: We consider the problem of relaxation in a one-dimensional system of interacting electrons. In the limit of weak interactions, we calculate the decay rate of a single-electron excitation, accounting for the nonlinear dispersion. The leading processes that determine the relaxation involve scattering of three particles. We elucidate how particular forms of Coulomb interaction, unscreened and screened, lead to different results for the decay rates and identify the dominant scattering processes responsible for relaxation of excitations of different energies. Interestingly, temperatures much smaller than the excitation energy strongly affect the rate. At higher temperatures the quasiparticle relaxes by exciting copropagating electron-hole pairs, whereas at lowest temperatures the relaxation proceeds via excitations of both copropagating and counterpropagating pairs.

id: 1301.3980
title: Extensions of solvable potentials with finitely many discrete eigenstates
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures. Typo corrected, comments and references added. To appear in J.Phys.A. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1212.6595
journal: J. Phys. A46 (2013) 235205
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3980
abstract: We address the problem of rational extensions of six examples of shape-invariant potentials having finitely many discrete eigenstates. The overshoot eigenfunctions are proposed as candidates unique in this group for the virtual state wavefunctions, which are an essential ingredient for multi-indexed and iso-spectral extensions of these potentials. They have exactly the same form as the eigenfunctions but their degrees are much higher than n_{max} so that their energies are lower than the groundstate energy.

id: 1301.4042
title: GUP-based and Snyder Non-Commutative Algebras, Relativistic Particle models and Deformed Symmetries: A Unified Approach
authors: Souvik Pramanik, Subir Ghosh
comments: 15 pages, one section is added before summary and conclusion
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 28 1350131(2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4042
abstract: We have developed a unified scheme for studying Non-Commutative algebras based on Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP) and Snyder form in a relativistically covariant point particle Lagrangian (or symplectic) framework. Even though the GUP based algebra and Snyder algebra are very distinct, the more involved latter algebra emerges from an approximation of the Lagrangian model of the former algebra. Deformed Poincare generators for the systems that keep space-time symmetries of the relativistic particle models have been studied thoroughly. From a purely constrained dynamical analysis perspective the models studied here are very rich and provide insights on how to consistently construct approximate models from the exact ones when non-linear constraints are present in the system. We also study dynamics of the GUP particle in presence of external electromagnetic field.

id: 1301.4091
title: Special Relativity induced by Granular Space
authors: Petr Jizba, Fabio Scardigli
comments: 6 pages, RevTeX4. Some revisions in DSR section and in Conclusions. References added
journal: Eur. Phys. J. C (2013) 73:2491
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4091
abstract: We show that the special relativistic dynamics when combined with quantum mechanics and the concept of superstatistics can be interpreted as arising from two interlocked non-relativistic stochastic processes that operate at different energy scales. This interpretation leads to Feynman amplitudes that are in the Euclidean regime identical to transition probability of a Brownian particle propagating through a granular space. Some kind of spacetime granularity could be held responsible for the emergence at larger scales of various symmetries. For illustration we consider also the dynamics and the propagator of a spinless relativistic particle. Implications for doubly special relativity, quantum field theory, quantum gravity and cosmology are discussed.

id: 1301.4142
title: Strong Nernst-Ettingshausen effect in folded graphene
authors: Friedemann Queisser, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4142
abstract: We study electronic transport in graphene under the influence of a transversal magnetic field $\f{B}(\f{r})=B(x)\f{e}_z$ with the asymptotics $B(x\to\pm\infty)=\pm B_0$, which could be realized via a folded graphene sheet in a constant magnetic field, for example. By solving the effective Dirac equation, we find robust modes with a finite energy gap which propagate along the fold -- where particles and holes move in opposite directions. Exciting these particle-hole pairs with incident photons would then generate a nearly perfect charge separation and thus a strong magneto-thermoelectric (Nernst-Ettingshausen) or magneto-photoelectric effect -- even at room temperature.

id: 1301.4149
title: Temperature dependence of hole spin coherence in (In,Ga)As quantum dots measured by mode-locking and echo techniques
authors: S. Varwig, A. Ren¨¦, A. Greilich, D. R. Yakovlev, D. Reuter, A. D. Wieck, M. Bayer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 115307 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4149
abstract: The temperature dependence of the coherence time of hole spins confined in self-assembled (In,Ga)As/GaAs quantum dots is studied by spin mode-locking and spin echo techniques. Coherence times limited to about a \mu s are measured for temperatures below 8 K. For higher temperatures a fast drop occurs down to a few ns over a 10 K range. The hole-nuclear hyperfine interaction appears too weak to account for these limitations. We suggest that spin-orbit related interactions are the decisive sources for hole spin decoherence.

id: 1301.4170
title: Rydberg atoms with a reduced sensitivity to dc and low-frequency electric fields
authors: L. A. Jones, J. D. Carter, J. D. D. Martin
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, v. 87, 023423 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4170
abstract: A non-resonant microwave dressing field at 38.465 GHz was used to eliminate the static electric dipole moment difference between the $49s_{1/2}$ and $48s_{1/2}$ Rydberg states of $^{87}$Rb in dc fields of approximately 1 V/cm. The reduced susceptibility to electric field fluctuations was measured using 2-photon microwave spectroscopy. An anomalous spectral doublet is attributed to polarization ellipticity in the dressing field. The demonstrated ability to inhibit static dipole moment differences --- while retaining sensitivity to high frequency fields --- is applicable to sensors and/or quantum devices using Rydberg atoms.

id: 1301.4187
title: Dynamical localization in chaotic systems: spectral statistics and localization measure in the kicked rotator as a paradigm for time-dependent and time-independent systems
authors: Thanos Manos, Marko Robnik
comments: 18 pages, 14 figures, published in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 062905 (2013)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4187
abstract: We study quantum kicked rotator in the classically fully chaotic regime, in the domain of the semiclassical behaviour. We use Izrailev's N-dimensional model for various N<=4000, which in the limit N-> infinity tends to the quantized kicked rotator, not only for K=5 as studied previously, but for many different values of the classical kick parameter 5<=K<=35, and also of the quantum parameter k. We describe the dynamical localization of chaotic eigenstates as a paradigm for other both time-periodic and time-independent fully chaotic or/and mixed type Hamilton systems. We generalize the localization length L and the scaling variable (L/N) to the case of anomalous classical diffusion. We study the generalized classical diffusion also in the regime where the simple minded theory of the normal diffusion fails. We greatly improve the accuracy of the numerical calculations with the following conclusions: The level spacings distribution of the eigenphases is very well described by the Brody distribution, systematically better than by other proposals, for various Brody exponents. When N->infinity and L is fixed we have always Poisson, even in fully chaotic regime. We study the eigenfunctions of the Floquet operator and characterize their localization properties using the information entropy measure describing the degree of dynamical localization of the eigenfunction. The resulting localization parameter is found to be almost equal to the Brody parameter. We show the existence of a scaling law between the localization parameter and the scaling variable L/N, now including the regimes of anomalous diffusion. The above findings are important also in time-independent Hamilton systems, like in mixed type billiards, where the Brody distribution is confirmed to a very high degree of precision for dynamically localized chaotic eigenstates.

id: 1301.4234
title: Controlling the group velocity of colliding atomic Bose-Einstein condensates with Feshbach resonances
authors: Ranchu Mathew, Eite Tiesinga
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4234
abstract: We report on a proposal to change the group velocity of a small Bose Einstein Condensate (BEC) upon collision with another BEC in analogy to slowing of light passing through dispersive media. We make use of ultracold collisions near a magnetic Feshbach resonance, which gives rise to a sharp variation in scattering length with collision energy and thereby changes the group velocity. A generalized Gross-Pitaveskii equation is derived for a small BEC moving through a larger stationary BEC. We denote the two condensates by laser and medium BEC, respectively, to highlight the analogy to a laser pulse travelling through a medium. We derive an expression for the group velocity in a homogeneous medium as well as for the difference in distance, $\delta$, covered by the laser BEC in the presence and absence of a finite-sized medium BEC with a Thomas-Fermi density distribution. For a medium and laser of the same isotopic species, the shift $\delta$ has an upper bound of twice the Thomas-Fermi radius of the medium. For typical narrow Feshbach resonances and a medium with number density $10^{15}$ cm$^{-3}$ up to 85% of the upper bound can be achieved, making the effect experimentally observable. We also derive constraints on the experimental realization of our proposal.

id: 1301.4303
title: Manipulating Majorana fermions in one-dimensional spin-orbit coupled atomic Fermi gases
authors: Xia-Ji Liu, P. D. Drummond
comments: 4 papges, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 035602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4303
abstract: Majorana fermions are promising candidates for storing and processing information in topological quantum computation. The ability to control such individual information carriers in trapped ultracold atomic Fermi gases is a novel theme in quantum information science. However, fermionic atoms are neutral and thus are difficult to manipulate. Here, we theoretically investigate the control of emergent Majorana fermions in one-dimensional spin-orbit coupled atomic Fermi gases. We discuss (i) how to move Majorana fermions by increasing or decreasing an effective Zeeman field, which acts like a solid state control voltage gate; and (ii) how to create a pair of Majorana fermions by adding a magnetic impurity potential. We discuss the experimental realization of our control scheme in an ultracold Fermi gas of $^{40}$K atoms.

id: 1301.4306
title: Photoluminescence of a microcavity quantum dot system in the quantum strong-coupling regime
authors: Natsuko Ishida, Tim Byrnes, Franco Nori, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1180 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4306
abstract: The Jaynes-Cummings model, describing the interaction between a single two-level system and a photonic mode, has been used to describe a large variety of systems, ranging from cavity quantum electrodynamics, trapped ions, to superconducting qubits coupled to resonators. Recently there has been renewed interest in studying the quantum strong-coupling (QSC) regime, where states with photon number greater than one are excited. This regime has been recently achieved in semiconductor nanostructures, where a quantum dot is trapped in a planar microcavity. Here we study the quantum strong-coupling regime by calculating its photoluminescence (PL) properties under a pulsed excitation. We discuss the changes in the PL as the QSC regime is reached, which transitions between a peak around the cavity resonance to a doublet. We particularly examine the variations of the PL in the time domain, under regimes of short and long pulse times relative to the microcavity decay time.

id: 1301.4322
title: Can quantum gravity be exposed in the laboratory?: A tabletop experiment to reveal the quantum foam
authors: Jacob D. Bekenstein
comments: Keynote lecture at the international workshop "Horizon of quantum physics: from foundations to quantum enabled technologies", Taipei, October 16, 2012. 10 pages, LaTeX, one jpg figure. To appear in the proceedings edited by F. Scardigli in Foundations of Physics
journal: Found. Phys. 44, 452-462 (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4322
abstract: I propose an experiment that may be performed, with present low temperature and cryogenic technology, to reveal Wheeler's quantum foam. It involves coupling an optical photon's momentum to the center of mass motion of a macroscopic transparent block with parameters such that the latter is displaced in space by approximately a Planck length. I argue that such displacement is sensitive to quantum foam and will react back on the photon's probability of transiting the block. This might allow determination of the precise scale at which quantum fluctuations of space-time become large, and so differentiate between the brane-world and the traditional scenarios of spacetime.

id: 1301.4363
title: Influences of Topological Defect on Spin Hall Effect
authors: Jian-hua Wang, Kai Ma, Kang Li
comments: 6 pages, no figure. Two references are added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032107 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4363
abstract: We study the influence of topological defect on the spin current as well as the spin Hall effect. We find that the nontrivial deformation of the space-time due to topological defect can generate a spin dependent current which then induces an imbalanced accumulation of spin states on the edges of sample. The corresponding spin-Hall conductivity has also been calculated for the topological defect of a cosmic string. Comparing to the ordinary value, a correction which is linear with mass density of the cosmic string appears. Our approach to the dynamics of non-relativistic spinor in the presence of a topological defect is based on the Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation. The spin current is obtained in by using the extended Drude model which is independent of the scattering mechanism.

id: 1301.4390
title: Time-correspondence differential ghost imaging
authors: Ming-Fei Li, Yu-Ran Zhang, Kai-Hong Luo, Ling-An Wu, Heng Fan
comments: Title changed, and some corresponding modifications made. 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Published online as PhysRevA.87.033813 on 14 March 2013
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4390
abstract: Experimental data with digital masks and a theoretical analysis are presented for an imaging scheme that we call time-correspondence differential ghost imaging (TCDGI). It is shown that by conditional averaging of the information from the reference detector but with the negative signals inverted, the quality of the reconstructed images is in general superior to all other ghost imaging (GI) methods to date. The advantages of both differential GI and time-correspondence GI are combined, plus less data manipulation and shorter computation time are required to obtain equivalent quality images under the same conditions. This TCDGI method offers a general approach applicable to all GI techniques, especially when objects with continuous gray tones are involved.

id: 1301.4439
title: Near-resonant optical forces beyond the two-level approximation for a continuous source of spin-polarized cold atoms
authors: Thomas Vanderbruggen, Morgan Mitchell
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87, 3 (2013) 033410
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4439
abstract: We propose a method to generate a source of spin-polarized cold atoms which are continuously extracted and guided from a magneto-optical trap using an atom-diode effect. We show that it is possible to create a pipe-like potential by overlapping two optical beams coupled with the two transitions of a three-level system in a ladder configuration. With alkali-metal atoms, and in particular with $^{87}$Rb, a proper choice of transitions enables both the potential generation and optical pumping, thus polarizing the sample in a given Zeeman state. We extend the Dalibard and Cohen-Tannoudji dressed-atom model of radiative forces to the case of a three-level system. We derive expressions for the average force and the different sources of momentum diffusion in the resonant, non-perturbative regime. We show using numerical simulations that a significant fraction of the atoms initially loaded can be guided over several centimeters with output velocities of a few meters per second. This would produce a collimated continuous source of slow spin-polarized atoms suitable for atom interferometry.

id: 1301.4504
title: Quantum Computation vs. Firewalls
authors: Daniel Harlow, Patrick Hayden
comments: Significant revision of sections 4.1-4.3; the general discussion of error correction is corrected (heh), and its relation to the AMPS experiment is made more explicit. Also a new section 3.4 is added, which gives a rigorous proof of the hardness of decoding for generic initial states. Comments are added to the introduction about an external entity "pausing" the black hole
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4504
abstract: In this paper we discuss quantum computational restrictions on the types of thought experiments recently used by Almheiri, Marolf, Polchinski, and Sully to argue against the smoothness of black hole horizons. We argue that the quantum computations required to do these experiments take a time which is exponential in the entropy of the black hole under study, and we show that for a wide variety of black holes this prevents the experiments from being done. We interpret our results as motivating a broader type of non-locality than is usually considered in the context of black hole thought experiments, and claim that once this type of non-locality is allowed there may be no need for firewalls. Our results do not threaten the unitarity of of black hole evaporation or the ability of advanced civilizations to test it.

id: 1301.4505
title: Black Hole Complementarity and the Harlow-Hayden Conjecture
authors: Leonard Susskind
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4505
abstract: Black hole complementarity, as originally formulated in the 1990's by Preskill, 't Hooft, and myself is now being challenged by the Almheiri-Marolf-Polchinski-Sully firewall argument. The AMPS argument relies on an implicit assumption---the ``proximity postulate---which says that the interior of a black hole must be constructed from degrees of freedom that are physically near the black hole. The proximity postulate manifestly contradicts the idea that interior information is redundant with information in Hawking radiation, which is very far from the black hole. AMPS argue that a violation of the proximity postulate would lead to a contradiction in a thought-experiment in which Alice distills the Hawking radiation and brings a bit back to the black hole. According to AMPS the only way to protect against the contradiction is for a firewall to form at the Page time. But the measurement that Alice must make, is of such a fine-grained nature that carrying it out before the black hole evaporates may be impossible. Harlow and Hayden have found evidence that the limits of quantum computation do in fact prevent Alice from carrying out her experiment in less than exponential time. If their conjecture is correct then black hole complementarity may be alive and well. My aim here is to give an overview of the firewall argument, and its basis in the proximity postulate; as well as the counterargument based on computational complexity, as conjectured by Harlow and Hayden.

id: 1301.4569
title: A fully quantum model of Big Bang
authors: Sergei P. Maydanyuk, Antonino Del Popolo, Vladislav S. Olkhovsky
comments: 29 pages, 12 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0812.5081, arXiv:1005.5447, arXiv:0707.0585
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4569
abstract: In the paper the closed Friedmann-Robertson-Walker model with quantization in the presence of the positive cosmological constant and radiation is studied. For analysis of tunneling probability for birth of an asymptotically deSitter, inflationary Universe as a function of the radiation energy a new definition of a "free" wave propagating inside strong fields is proposed. On such a basis, tunneling boundary condition is corrected, penetrability and reflection concerning to the barrier are calculated in fully quantum stationary approach. For the first time non-zero interference between the incident and reflected waves has been taken into account which turns out to play important role inside cosmological potentials and could be explained by non-locality of barriers in quantum mechanics. Inside whole region of energy of radiation the tunneling probability for the birth of the inflationary Universe is found to be close to its value obtained in semiclassical approach. The reflection from the barrier is determined for the first time (which is essentially differs on 1 at the energy of radiation close to the barrier height). The proposed method could be easily generalized on the cosmological models with the barriers of arbitrary shape, that has been demonstrated for the FRW-model with included Chaplygin gas. Result is stable for variations of the studied barriers, accuracy are found to be 11--18 digits for all coefficients and energies below the barrier height.

id: 1301.4612
title: Quantum Computing: a Quantum Group Approach
authors: Zhenghan Wang
comments: To appear in the proceedings of the 2012 Nankai international conference group methods in physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4612
abstract: There is compelling theoretical evidence that quantum physics will change the face of information science. Exciting progress has been made during the last two decades towards the building of a large scale quantum computer. A quantum group approach stands out as a promising route to this holy grail, and provides hope that we may have quantum computers in our future.

id: 1301.4619
title: Impurity probe of topological superfluid in one-dimensional spin-orbit coupled atomic Fermi gases
authors: Xia-Ji Liu
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013622 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4619
abstract: We investigate theoretically non-magnetic impurity scattering in a one-dimensional atomic topological superfluid in harmonic traps, by solving self-consistently the microscopic Bogoliubov-de Gennes equation. In sharp contrast to topologically trivial Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer \textit{s}-wave superfluid, topological superfluid can host a mid-gap state that is bound to localized non-magnetic impurity. For strong impurity scattering, the bound state becomes universal, with nearly zero energy and a wave-function that closely follows the symmetry of that of Majorana fermions. We propose that the observation of such a universal bound state could be a useful evidence for characterizing the topolgoical nature of topological superfluids. Our prediction is applicable to an ultracold resonantly-interacting Fermi gas of $^{40}$K atoms with spin-orbit coupling confined in a two-dimensional optical lattice.

id: 1301.4667
title: A New Hybrid Classical-Quantum Algorithm for Continuous Global Optimization Problems
authors: Pedro Lara, Renato Portugal, Carlile Lavor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4667
abstract: Grover's algorithm can be employed in global optimization methods providing, in some cases, a quadratic speedup over classical algorithms. This paper describes a new method for continuous global optimization problems that uses a classical algorithm for finding a local minimum and Grover's algorithm to escape from this local minimum. Simulations with testbed functions and comparisons with algorithms from the literature are presented.

id: 1301.4672
title: Delocalization and superfluidity of ultracold bosonic atoms in a ring lattice
authors: Fernanda Pinheiro, A. F. R. de Toledo Piza
comments: 10 pages, 13 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 205303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4672
abstract: Properties of bosonic atoms in small systems with a periodic quasi one-dimensional circular toroidal lattice potential subjected to rotation are examined by performing exact diagonalization in a truncated many body space. The expansion of the many-body Hamiltonian is considered in terms of the first band Bloch functions, and no assumption regarding restriction to nearest-neighbor hopping (tight-binding approximation) is involved. A finite size version of the zero temperature phase diagrams of Fisher et al. \cite{Fisher} is obtained and the results, in remarkable quantitative correspondence with the results available for larger systems, discussed. Ground state properties relating to superfluidity are examined in the context of two-fluid phenomenology. The basic tool, consisting of the intrinsic inertia associated with small rotation angular velocities in the lab frame, is used to obtain ground state `superfluid fractions' numerically. They are analytically associated with one-body, uniform solenoidal currents in the case of the adopted geometry. These currents are in general incoherent superpositions of contributions from each eigenstate of the associated reduced one-body densities, with the corresponding occupation numbers as weights. Full coherence occurs therefore only when only one eigenstate is occupied by all bosons. The obtained numerical values for the superfluid fractions remain small throughout the parameter region corresponding to the `Mott insulator to superfluid' transition, and saturate at unity only as the lattice is completely smoothed out.

id: 1301.4675
title: Quantum Effects at Low Energy Atom-Molecule Interface
authors: B. Deb, A. Rakshit, J. Hazra, D. Chakraborty
comments: 22 pages 2 figures
journal: Pramana - journal of physics, January 2013, Volume 80, Issue 1, pp 3-19
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4675
abstract: Quantum interference effects in inter-conversion between cold atoms and diatomic molecules are analysed. Within the framework of Fano's theory, continuum-bound anisotropic dressed state formalism of atom-molecule quantum dynamics is presented. This formalism is applicable in photo- and magneto-associative strong-coupling regimes. The significance of Fano effect in ultracold atom-molecule transitions is discussed. Quantum effects at low energy atom-molecule interface are important for exploring coherent phenomena in hither-to unexplored parameter regimes.

id: 1301.4678
title: Quantum motor and future
authors: Evgeny G. Fateev
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4678
abstract: In a popular language, the possibilities of the Casimir expulsion effect are presented, which can be the basis of quantum motors. Such motors can be in the form of a special multilayer thin film with periodic and complex nanosized structures. Quantum motors of the type of the Casimir platforms can be the base of transportation, energy and many other systems in the future.

id: 1301.4688
title: Revisiting the Bragg reflector to illustrate some modern developments in optics
authors: S. A. R. Horsley, J.-H. Wu, M. Artoni, G. C. La Rocca
comments: 24 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4688
abstract: A series of thin layers of alternating refractive index is known to make a good optical mirror over certain bands of frequency. Such a device - often termed the Bragg reflector - is usually introduced to students within the first years of an undergraduate degree, often in isolation from other parts of the course. Here we show that the basic physics of wave propagation through a stratified medium can be used to illustrate some more modern developments in optics as well as quantum physics; from transfer matrix techniques, to the optical properties of cold trapped atoms, optomechanical cooling, and a simple example of a system exhibiting an appreciable level of optical non-reciprocity.

id: 1301.4709
title: Topological Mott insulators of ultracold atomic mixtures induced by interactions in one-dimensional optical superlattices
authors: Zhihao Xu, Shu Chen
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, version appeared in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 045110 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4709
abstract: We present exactly solvable examples that topological Mott insulators can emerge from topologically trivial states due to strong interactions between atoms for atomic mixtures trapped in one-dimensional optical superlattice systems. The topological Mott insulating state is characterized by nonzero Chern number and appears in the strongly interacting limit as long as the total band filling factor is an integer, which is not sensitive to the filling of each component. The topological nature of the Mott phase can be revealed by observing the density profile of the trapped system. Our results can be also generalized to the multi-component atomic systems.

id: 1301.4715
title: Spectroscopy of the Double Minimum $3\,^3 ¦°_¦¸$ Electronic State of $^{39}$K$^{85}$Rb
authors: Jayita Banerjee, David Rahmlow, Ryan Carollo, Michael Bellos, Edward E. Eyler, Phillip L. Gould, William C. Stwalley
comments: 23 pages, 12 Figures, Submitted to Journal of Chemical Physics, Supplementary Material available upon request
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4715
abstract: We report the observation and analysis of the $3\,^3\Pi_{\Omega}$ double-minimum electronic excited state of $^{39}$K$^{85}$Rb. The spin-orbit components ($0^{+}, 0^{-}, 1$ and 2) of this state are investigated based on potentials developed from the available \emph{ab initio} potential curves. We have assigned the vibrational levels $v'=2-11$ of the $3\,^3\Pi_{1,2}$ potentials and $v'=2-12$ of the $3\,^3\Pi_{0^{+/-}}$ potential. We compare our experimental observations of the $3\,^3\Pi_{\Omega}$ state with predictions based on theoretical potentials. The observations are based on resonance enhanced multiphoton ionization (REMPI) of ultracold KRb in vibrational levels $v"=14-25$ of the $a\,^3\Sigma^+$ state. These \emph{a}-state ultracold molecules are formed by photoassociation of ultracold $^{39}$K and $^{85}$Rb atoms to the 5(1) state of KRb followed by spontaneous emission to the \emph{a} state.

id: 1301.4718
title: Spin-orbit-induced bound state and molecular signature of the degenerate Fermi gas in a narrow Feshbach resonance
authors: Kuang Zhang, Gang Chen, Suotang Jia
comments: Major modification
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013611 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4718
abstract: In this paper we explore the spin-orbit-induced bound state and molecular signature of the degenerate Fermi gas in a narrow Feshbach resonance based on a generalized two-channel model. Without the atom-atom interactions, only one bound state can be found even if spin-orbit coupling exists. Moreover, the corresponding bound-state energy depends strongly on the strength of spin-orbit coupling, but is influenced slightly by its type. In addition, we find that when increasing the strength of spin-orbit coupling, the critical point at which the molecular fraction vanishes shifts from zero to the negative detuning. In the weak spin-orbit coupling, this shifting is proportional to the square of its strength. Finally, we also show that the molecular fraction can be well controlled by spin-orbit coupling.

id: 1301.4719
title: Derivation of Maxwell-like equations from the quaternionic Dirac's equation
authors: A. I. Arbab
comments: 9 Latex pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4719
abstract: Expanding the ordinary Dirac's equation, $\frac{1}{c}\frac{\partial\psi}{\partial t}+\vec{\alpha}\cdot\vec{\nabla}\psi+\frac{imc\beta}{\hbar }\psi=0$, in quaternionic form yielded Maxwell-like field equations. As in the Maxwell's formulation, the particle fields are represented by a scalar, $\psi_0$ and a vector $\vec{\psi}$. The analogy with Maxwell's equations requires that the inertial fields are $\vec{E}_D=c^2\vec{\alpha}\times\vec{\psi}$, and $\vec{B}_D=\vec{\alpha}\,\psi_0+c\beta\,\vec{\psi}$ and that $\psi_0=-c\beta\,\vec{\alpha}\cdot\vec{\psi}$. An alternative solution suggests that magnetic monopole-like behaviour accompanies Dirac's field. In this formulation a field-like representation of Dirac's particle is derived. It is shown that when the vector field of the particle, $\vec{\psi}$, is normal to the vector $\vec{\alpha}$, Dirac's field represents a medium with maximal conductivity. The energy flux (Poynting vector) of the Dirac's fields is found to flow in opposite direction to the particle's motion. A system of equivalent symmetrised Maxwell's equations is introduced. A longitudinal (scalar) wave traveling at speed of light is found to accompany magnetic charges flow. This wave is not affected by presence of electric charges and currents.

id: 1301.4789
title: On the Saturation of the Nonlinear Refractive Index in Atomic Gases
authors: Christian K?hler, Roland Guichard, Emmanuel Lorin, Szczepan Chelkowski, Andr¨¦ D. Bandrauk, Luc Berg¨¦, Stefan Skupin
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043811 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4789
abstract: Motivated by the ongoing controversy on the origin of the nonlinear index saturation and subsequent intensity clamping in femtosecond filaments, we study the atomic nonlinear polarization induced by a high-intensity and ultrashort laser pulse in hydrogen by numerically solving the time dependent Schr\"odinger equation. Special emphasis is given to the efficient modeling of the nonlinear polarization at central laser frequency corresponding to 800 nm wavelength. Here, the recently proposed model of the Higher-Order Kerr Effect (HOKE) and two versions of the Standard model for femtosecond filamentation, including either a multi-photon or tunnel ionization rate, are compared. We find that around the clamping intensity the instantaneous HOKE model does not reproduce the temporal structure of the nonlinear response obtained from the quantum mechanical results. In contrast, the non-instantaneous charge contributions included in the Standard models ensure a reasonable quantitative agreement. Therefore, the physical origin for the observed saturation of the overall electron response is confirmed to mainly result from contributions of free or nearly free electrons.

id: 1301.4806
title: Spectral Properties of the Dirichlet Operator $\sum_{i=1}^d (-\partial_i^2)^s$ on Domains in d-Dimensional Euclidean Space
authors: Agapitos N. Hatzinikitas
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4806
abstract: In this article we investigate the distribution of eigenvalues of the Dirichlet pseudo-differential operator $\sum_{i=1}^{d}(-\partial_i^2)^{s}, \, s\in (1/2,1]$ on an open and bounded subdomain $\Omega \subset \mathbb{R}^d$ and predict bounds on the sum of the first $N$ eigenvalues, the counting function, the Riesz means and the trace of the heat kernel. Moreover, utilizing the connection of coherent states to the semi-classical approach of Quantum Mechanics we determine the sum for moments of eigenvalues of the associated Schr\"{o}dinger operator.

id: 1301.4827
title: Spectral convergence bounds for classical and quantum Markov processes
authors: Oleg Szehr, David Reeb, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 30 pages, update version, Comm. Math. Phys. 2014
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 333, 565-595 (2015)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4827
abstract: We introduce a new framework that yields spectral bounds on norms of functions of transition maps for finite, homogeneous Markov chains. The techniques employed work for bounded semigroups, in particular for classical as well as for quantum Markov chains and they do not require additional assumptions like detailed balance, irreducibility or aperiodicity. We use the method in order to derive convergence bounds that improve significantly upon known spectral bounds. The core technical observation is that power-boundedness of transition maps of Markov chains enables a Wiener algebra functional calculus in order to upper bound any norm of any holomorphic function of the transition map. Finally, we discuss how general detailed balance conditions for quantum Markov processes lead to spectral convergence bounds.

id: 1301.4872
title: Density Matrix Topological Insulators
authors: A. Rivas, O. Viyuela, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: RevTex4 file, color figures. Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 155141 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4872
abstract: Thermal noise can destroy topological insulators (TI). However we demonstrate how TIs can be made stable in dissipative systems. To that aim, we introduce the notion of band Liouvillian as the dissipative counterpart of band Hamiltonian, and show a method to evaluate the topological order of its steady state. This is based on a generalization of the Chern number valid for general mixed states (referred to as density matrix Chern value), which witnesses topological order in a system coupled to external noise. Additionally, we study its relation with the electrical conductivity at finite temperature, which is not a topological property. Nonetheless, the density matrix Chern value represents the part of the conductivity which is topological due to the presence of quantum mixed edge states at finite temperature. To make our formalism concrete, we apply these concepts to the two-dimensional Haldane model in the presence of thermal dissipation, but our results hold for arbitrary dimensions and density matrices.

id: 1301.4907
title: Roton confinement in trapped dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: M. Jona-Lasinio, K. ?akomy, L. Santos
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013619 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4907
abstract: Roton excitations constitute a key feature of dipolar gases, connecting these gases with superfluid helium. We show that the density dependence of the roton minimum results in a spatial roton confinement, particularly relevant in pancake dipolar condensates with large aspect ratios. We show that roton confinement plays a crucial role in the dynamics after roton instability, and that arresting the instability may create a trapped roton gas revealed by confined density modulations. We discuss the local susceptibility against density perturbations, which we illustrate for the case of vortices. Roton confinement is expected to play a key role in experiments.

id: 1301.4959
title: Realizing non-Abelian gauge potentials in optical square lattices: Application to atomic Chern insulators
authors: N. Goldman, F. Gerbier, M. Lewenstein
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures. Revised and extended version accepted for publication in Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 134010 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4959
abstract: We describe a scheme to engineer non-Abelian gauge potentials on a square optical lattice using laser-induced transitions. We emphasize the case of two-electron atoms, where the electronic ground state g is laser coupled to a metastable state e within a state-dependent optical lattice. In this scheme, the alternating pattern of lattice sites hosting g and e states depict a checkerboard structure, allowing for laser-assisted tunneling along both spatial directions. In this configuration, the nuclear spin of the atoms can be viewed as a "flavor" quantum number undergoing non-Abelian tunneling along nearest-neighbor links. We show that this technique can be useful to simulate the equivalent of the Haldane quantum Hall model using cold atoms trapped in square optical lattices, offering an interesting route to realize Chern insulators. The emblematic Haldane model is particularly suited to investigate the physics of topological insulators, but requires, in its original form, complex hopping terms beyond nearest-neighboring sites. In general, this drawback inhibits a direct realization with cold atoms, using standard laser-induced tunneling techniques. We demonstrate that a simple mapping allows to express this model in terms of matrix hopping operators, that are defined on a standard square lattice. This mapping is investigated for two models that lead to anomalous quantum Hall phases. We discuss the practical implementation of such models, exploiting laser-induced tunneling methods applied to the checkerboard optical lattice.

id: 1301.4986
title: On some sharp spectral inequalities for Schr?dinger operators on semi-axis
authors: Pavel Exner, Ari Laptev, Muhammad Usman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.4986
abstract: In this paper we obtain sharp Lieb-Thirring inequalities for a Schr\"odinger operator on semi-axis with a matrix potential and show how they can be used to other related problems. Among them are spectral inequalities on star graphs and spectral inequalities for Schr\"odinger operators on half-spaces with Robin boundary conditions.

id: 1301.5071
title: Validity of single-channel model for a spin-orbit coupled atomic Fermi gas near Feshbach resonances
authors: Jing-Xin Cui, Xia-Ji Liu, Gui Lu Long, Hui Hu
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86 053628 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5071
abstract: We theoretically investigate a Rashba spin-orbit coupled Fermi gas near Feshbach resonances, by using mean-field theory and a two-channel model that takes into account explicitly Feshbach molecules in the close channel. In the absence of spin-orbit coupling, when the channel coupling $g$ between the closed and open channels is strong, it is widely accepted that the two-channel model is equivalent to a single-channel model that excludes Feshbach molecules. This is the so-called broad resonance limit, which is well-satisfied by ultracold atomic Fermi gases of $^{6}$Li atoms and $^{40}$K atoms in current experiments. Here, with Rashba spin-orbit coupling we find that the condition for equivalence becomes much more stringent. As a result, the single-channel model may already be insufficient to describe properly an atomic Fermi gas of $^{40}$K atoms at a moderate spin-orbit coupling. We determine a characteristic channel coupling strength $g_{c}$ as a function of the spin-orbit coupling strength, above which the single-channel and two-channel models are approximately equivalent. We also find that for narrow resonance with small channel coupling, the pairing gap and molecular fraction is strongly suppressed by SO coupling. Our results can be readily tested in $^{40}$K atoms by using optical molecular spectroscopy.

id: 1301.5137
title: Optimal Shortcuts to Adiabaticity for a Quantum Piston
authors: Dionisis Stefanatos
comments: 
journal: Automatica, Vol. 49, pp. 3079-3083, 2013
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5137
abstract: In this paper we use optimal control to design minimum-time adiabatic-like paths for the expansion of a quantum piston. Under realistic experimental constraints, we calculate the minimum expansion time and compare it with that obtained from a state of the art inverse engineering method. We use this result to rederive the known upper bound for the cooling rate of a refrigerator, which provides a quantitative description for the unattainability of absolute zero, the third law of thermodynamics. We finally point out the relation of the present work to the fast adiabatic-like expansion of an accordion optical lattice, a system which can be used to magnify the initial quantum state (quantum microscope).

id: 1301.5212
title: Skeletons and superscars
authors: Stefan Giller, Jaros?aw Janiak
comments: 52 pages, 20 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1108.2527
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5212
abstract: Semiclassical wave functions in billiards based on the Maslov-Fedoriuk approach are constructed. They are defined on classical constructions called skeletons which are the billiards generalization of the Arnold tori. Skeletons in the rational polygon billiards considered in the phase space can be closed with a definite genus or can be open being a cylinder-like or Moebius-like bands. The skeleton formulation is applied to calculate semiclassical wave functions and the corresponding energy spectra for the integrable and pseudointegrable billiards as well as in the limiting forms in some cases of chaotic ones. The superscars of Bogomolny and Schmit are shown to be simply singular semiclassical solutions of the eigenvalue problem in the billiards well built on the singular skeletons in the billiards with flat boundaries in both the integrable and the pseudointegrable billiards as well as in the chaotic cases of such billiards.

id: 1301.5215
title: Mapping spin coherence of a single rare-earth ion in a crystal onto a single photon polarization state
authors: Roman Kolesov, Kangwei Xia, Rolf Reuter, Rainer Stoehr, Tugrul Inal, Petr Siyushev, Joerg Wrachtrup
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5215
abstract: We report on optical detection of a single photostable Ce3+ ion in an yttrium aluminium garnet (YAG) crystal and on its magneto-optical properties at room temperature. The quantum state of an electron spin of the emitting level of cerium ion in YAG can be initialized by circularly polarized laser pulse. Furthermore, its quantum state can be read out by observing temporal behaviour of circularly polarized fluorescence of the ion. This implies direct mapping of the spin quantum state of Ce3+ ion onto the polarization state of the emitted photon and represents one-way quantum interface between a single spin and a single photon.

id: 1301.5252
title: Trapped Atoms in One-Dimensional Photonic Crystals
authors: C.-L. Hung, S. M. Meenehan, D. E. Chang, O. Painter, H. J. Kimble
comments: 7 pages with 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 083026
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5252
abstract: We describe one-dimensional photonic crystals that support a guided mode suitable for atom trapping within a unit cell, as well as a second probe mode with strong atom-photon interactions. A new hybrid trap is analyzed that combines optical and Casimir-Polder forces to form stable traps for neutral atoms in dielectric nanostructures. By suitable design of the band structure, the atomic spontaneous emission rate into the probe mode can exceed the rate into all other modes by more than tenfold. The unprecedented single-atom reflectivity $r_0 \gtrsim 0.9$ for the guided probe field should enable diverse investigations of photon-mediated interactions for 1D atom chains and cavity QED.

id: 1301.5339
title: Charge conservation protected topological phases
authors: Jan Carl Budich
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 161103(R) (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5339
abstract: We discuss the relation between particle number conservation and topological phases. In four spatial dimensions, we find that systems belonging to different topological phases in the presence of a U(1) charge conservation can be connected adiabatically, i.e., without closing the gap, upon intermediately breaking this local symmetry by a superconducting term. The time reversal preserving topological insulator states in 2D and 3D which can be obtained from the 4D parent state by dimensional reduction inherit this protection by charge conservation. Hence, all topological insulators can be adiabatically connected to a trivial insulating state without breaking time reversal symmetry, provided an intermediate superconducting term is allowed during the adiabatic deformation. Conversely, in one spatial dimension, non-symmetry-protected topological phases occur only in systems that break U(1) charge conservation. These results can intuitively be understood by considering a natural embedding of the classifying spaces of charge conserving Hamiltonians into the corresponding Bogoliubov de Gennes classes.

id: 1301.5503
title: Unpolarized, incoherent repumping light for prevention of dark states in a trapped and laser-cooled single ion
authors: T. Lindvall, T. Fordell, I. Tittonen, M. Merimaa
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013439 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5503
abstract: Many ion species commonly used for laser-cooled ion trapping studies have a low-lying metastable 2D3/2 state that can become populated due to spontaneous emission from the 2P1/2 excited state. This requires a repumper laser to maintain the ion in the Doppler cooling cycle. Typically the 2D3/2 state, or some of its hyperfine components if the ion has nuclear spin, has a higher multiplicity than the upper state of the repumping transition. This can lead to dark states, which have to be destabilized by an external magnetic field or by modulating the polarization of the repumper laser. We propose using unpolarized, incoherent amplified spontaneous emission (ASE) to drive the repumping transition. An ASE source offers several advantages compared to a laser. It prevents the buildup of dark states without external polarization modulation even in zero magnetic field, it can drive multiple hyperfine transitions simultaneously, and it requires no frequency stabilization. These features make it very compact and robust, which is essential for the development of practical, transportable optical ion clocks. We construct a theoretical model for the ASE radiation, including the possibility of the source being partially polarized. Using 88Sr+ as an example, the performance of the ASE source compared to a single-mode laser is analyzed by numerically solving the eight-level density matrix equations for the involved energy levels. Finally a reduced three-level system is derived, yielding a simple formula for the excited state population and scattering rate, which can be used to optimize the experimental parameters. The required ASE power spectral density can be obtained with current technology.

id: 1301.5553
title: Reservoir-engineered entanglement in optomechanical systems
authors: Ying-Dan Wang, Aashish A. Clerk
comments: 5 pages plus supplementary information; final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 253601 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5553
abstract: We show how strong steady-state entanglement can be achieved in a three-mode optomechanical system (or other parametrically-coupled bosonic system) by using one of the modes as a cold reservoir to effectively laser-cool a delocalized Bogoliubov mode. This approach allows one to surpass the bound on the maximum stationary intracavity entanglement possible with a coherent two-mode squeezing interaction. Unlike typical dissipative entanglement schemes, the entangling dynamics here are most effective in a regime where the effects of the engineered reservoir cannot be described by a Markovian Lindblad master equation.

id: 1301.5636
title: Kitaev honeycomb and other exotic spin models with polar molecules
authors: Alexey V. Gorshkov, Kaden R. A. Hazzard, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, submitted to a special issue of Molecular Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5636
abstract: We show that ultracold polar molecules pinned in an optical lattice can be used to access a variety of exotic spin models, including the Kitaev honeycomb model. Treating each molecule as a rigid rotor, we use DC electric and microwave fields to define superpositions of rotational levels as effective spin degrees of freedom, while dipole-dipole interactions give rise to interactions between the spins. In particular, we show that, with sufficient microwave control, the interaction between two spins can be written as a sum of five independently controllable Hamiltonian terms proportional to the five rank-2 spherical harmonics Y_{2,q}(theta,phi), where (theta,phi) are the spherical coordinates of the vector connecting the two molecules. To demonstrate the potential of this approach beyond the simplest examples studied in [S. R. Manmana et al., arXiv:1210.5518v2], we focus on the realization of the Kitaev honeycomb model, which can support exotic non-Abelian anyonic excitations. We also discuss the possibility of generating spin Hamiltonians with arbitrary spin S, including those exhibiting SU(N=2S+1) symmetry.

id: 1301.5639
title: Topological Zero-Energy Modes in Gapless Commensurate Aubry-Andr¨¦-Harper Models
authors: Sriram Ganeshan, Kai Sun, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages + 1 page supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 180403 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5639
abstract: The Aubry-Andr\'e or Harper (AAH) model has been the subject of extensive theoretical research in the context of quantum localization. Recently, it was shown that one-dimensional quasicrystals described by the incommensurate AAH model has a nontrivial topology. In this Letter, we show that the commensurate off-diagonal AAH model is topologically nontrivial in the gapless regime and supports zero-energy edge modes. Unlike the incommensurate case, the nontrivial topology in the off-diagonal AAH model is attributed to the topological properties of the one-dimensional Majorana chain. We discuss the feasibility of experimental observability of our predicted topological phase in the commensurate AAH model.

id: 1301.5652
title: Analytical results from the quantum theory of a single-emitter nanolaser. II
authors: Nikolay V. Larionov, Mikhail I. Kolobov
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5652
abstract: Using two equivalent approaches, Heisenberg-Langevin and density operator, we investigate the properties of nanolaser: an incoherently pumped single two-level system interacting with a single-cavity mode of finite finesse. We show that in the case of good-cavity regime the Heisenberg-Langevin approach provides the analytical results for linewidth, amplitude fluctuation spectrum, and intracavity Mandel Q-parameter. In the bad-cavity regime we estimate the frequency at which the peak of relaxation oscillations appears. With the help of the master equation for density operator written in terms of coherent states we obtain approximated expression for Glauber-Sudarshan P function. This solution can be used in the case of good-cavity regime and allows us to investigate in more detail the thresholdless behaviour of the nanolaser. All two approaches are in a very good agreement with each other and numerical simulations.

id: 1301.5759
title: Controlled formation and reflection of a bright solitary matter-wave
authors: A. L. Marchant, T. P. Billam, T. P. Wiles, M. M. H. Yu, S. A. Gardiner, S. L. Cornish
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5759
abstract: Solitons are non-dispersive wave solutions that arise in a diverse range of nonlinear systems, stablised by a focussing or defocussing nonlinearity. First observed in shallow water, solitons have subsequently been studied in many other fields including nonlinear optics, biophysics, astrophysics, plasma and particle physics. They are characterised by well localised wavepackets that maintain their initial shape and amplitude for all time, even following collisions with other solitons. Here we report the controlled formation of bright solitary matter-waves, the 3D analog to solitons, from Bose-Einstein condensates of 85Rb and observe their propagation in an optical waveguide. These results pave the way for new experimental studies of bright solitary matterwave dynamics to elucidate the wealth of existing theoretical work and to explore an array of potential applications including novel interferometric devices, the study of short-range atom-surface potentials and the realisation of Schrodingercat states.

id: 1301.5761
title: Above-threshold ionization with highly-charged ions in super-strong laser fields: I. Coulomb-corrected strong field approximation
authors: Michael Klaiber, Enderalp Yakaboylu, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5761
abstract: Aiming at the investigation of above-threshold ionization in super-strong laser fields with highly charged ions, we develop a Coulomb-corrected strong field approximation (SFA). The influence of the Coulomb potential of the atomic core on the ionized electron dynamics in the continuum is taken into account via the eikonal approximation, treating the Coulomb potential perturbatively in the phase of the quasi-classical wave function of the continuum electron. In this paper the formalism of the Coulomb-corrected SFA for the nonrelativistic regime is discussed employing velocity and length gauge. Direct ionization of a hydrogen-like system in a strong linearly polarized laser field is considered. The relation of the results in the different gauges to the Perelomov-Popov-Terent'ev imaginary-time method is discussed.

id: 1301.5764
title: Above-threshold ionization with highly-charged ions in super-strong laser fields: II. Relativistic Coulomb-corrected strong field approximation
authors: Michael Klaiber, Enderalp Yakaboylu, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5764
abstract: We develop a relativistic Coulomb-corrected strong field approximation (SFA) for the investigation of spin effects at above-threshold ionization in relativistically strong laser fields with highly charged hydrogen-like ions. The Coulomb-corrected SFA is based on the relativistic eikonal-Volkov wave function describing the ionized electron laser-driven continuum dynamics disturbed by the Coulomb field of the ionic core. The SFA in different partitions of the total Hamiltonian is considered. The formalism is applied for direct ionization of a hydrogen-like system in a strong linearly polarized laser field. The differential and total ionization rates are calculated analytically. The relativistic analogue of the Perelomov-Popov-Terent'ev ionization rate is retrieved within the SFA technique. The physical relevance of the SFA in different partitions is discussed.

id: 1301.5837
title: Gate controlled coupling of intersubband plasmons
authors: Aymeric Delteil, Angela Vasanelli, Yanko Todorov, Bruno Paulillo, Giorgio Biasiol, Lucia Sorba, Carlo Sirtori
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters 102, 031102 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5837
abstract: The optical response of a heavily doped quantum well, with two occupied subbands, has been investigated as a function of the electronic density. It is shown that the two optically active transitions are mutually coupled by dipole-dipole Coulomb interaction, which strongly renormalizes their absorption amplitude. In order to demonstrate this effect, we have measured a set of optical spectra on a device in which the electronic density can be tuned by the application of a gate voltage. Our results show that the absorption spectra can be correctly described only by taking into account the Coulomb coupling between the two transitions. As a consequence, the optical dipoles originating from intersubband transitions are not independent, but rather coupled oscillators with an adjustable strength.

id: 1301.5851
title: Soliton dynamics of an atomic spinor condensate on a Ring Lattice
authors: Indubala I Satija, Carlos L. Pando, Eite Tiesinga
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5851
abstract: We study the dynamics of macroscopically-coherent matter waves of an ultra-cold atomic spin-one or spinor condensate on a ring lattice of six sites and demonstrate a novel type of spatio-temporal internal Josephson effect. Using a discrete solitary mode of uncoupled spin components as an initial condition, the time evolution of this many-body system is found to be characterized by two dominant frequencies leading to quasiperiodic dynamics at various sites. The dynamics of spatially-averaged and spin-averaged degrees of freedom, however, is periodic enabling an unique identification of the two frequencies. By increasing the spin-dependent atom-atom interaction strength we observe a resonance state, where the ratio of the two frequencies is a characteristic integer multiple and the spin-and-spatial degrees of freedom oscillate in "unison". Crucially, this resonant state is found to signal the onset to chaotic dynamics characterized by a broad band spectrum. In a ferromagnetic spinor condensate with attractive spin-dependent interactions, the resonance is accompanied by a transition from oscillatory- to rotational-type dynamics as the time evolution of the relative phase of the matter wave of the individual spin projections changes from bounded to unbounded.

id: 1301.5857
title: Quantum theory of reactive collisions for 1/r^n potentials
authors: Krzysztof Jachymski, Michal Krych, Paul S. Julienne, Zbigniew Idziaszek
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 213202 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5857
abstract: We develop a general quantum theory for reactive collisions involving power-law potentials (-1/r^n) valid from the ultracold up to the high-temperature limit. Our quantum defect framework extends the conventional capture models to include the non-universal case when the short-range reaction probability P^{re} < 1. We present explicit analytical formulas as well as numerical studies for the van der Waals (n = 6) and polarization (n = 4) potentials, and relate our work to recent merged beam experiments on Penning ionization for collision energies below 0.1 meV [Henson et al, Science 338, 234(2012)].

id: 1301.5883
title: Interferometry with Bose-Einstein Condensates in Microgravity
authors: H. M¨¹ntinga, H. Ahlers, M. Krutzik, A. Wenzlawski, S. Arnold, D. Becker, K. Bongs, H. Dittus, H. Duncker, N. Gaaloul, C. Gherasim, E. Giese, C. Grzeschik, T. W. H?nsch, O. Hellmig, W. Herr, S. Herrmann, E. Kajari, S. Kleinert, C. L?mmerzahl, W. Lewoczko-Adamczyk, J. Malcolm, N. Meyer, R. Nolte, A. Peters, M. Popp, J. Reichel, A. Roura, J. Rudolph, M. Schiemangk, M. Schneider, S. T. Seidel, K. Sengstock, V. Tamma, T. Valenzuela, A. Vogel, R. Walser, T. Wendrich, P. Windpassinger, W. Zeller, T.van Zoest, W. Ertmer, W. P. Schleich, E. M. Rasel
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; 8 pages of supporting material
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5883
abstract: Atom interferometers covering macroscopic domains of space-time are a spectacular manifestation of the wave nature of matter. Due to their unique coherence properties, Bose-Einstein condensates are ideal sources for an atom interferometer in extended free fall. In this paper we report on the realization of an asymmetric Mach-Zehnder interferometer operated with a Bose-Einstein condensate in microgravity. The resulting interference pattern is similar to the one in the far-field of a double-slit and shows a linear scaling with the time the wave packets expand. We employ delta-kick cooling in order to enhance the signal and extend our atom interferometer. Our experiments demonstrate the high potential of interferometers operated with quantum gases for probing the fundamental concepts of quantum mechanics and general relativity.

id: 1301.5889
title: Uniform Mixing and Association Schemes
authors: Chris Godsil, Natalie Mullin, Aidan Roy
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5889
abstract: We consider continuous-time quantum walks on distance-regular graphs of small diameter. Using results about the existence of complex Hadamard matrices in association schemes, we determine which of these graphs have quantum walks that admit uniform mixing. First we apply a result due to Chan to show that the only strongly regular graphs that admit instantaneous uniform mixing are the Paley graph of order nine and certain graphs corresponding to regular symmetric Hadamard matrices with constant diagonal. Next we prove that if uniform mixing occurs on a bipartite graph X with n vertices, then n is divisible by four. We also prove that if X is bipartite and regular, then n is the sum of two integer squares. Our work on bipartite graphs implies that uniform mixing does not occur on C_{2m} for m >= 3. Using a result of Haagerup, we show that uniform mixing does not occur on C_p for any prime p such that p >= 5. In contrast to this result, we see that epsilon-uniform mixing occurs on C_p for all primes p.

id: 1301.5945
title: High Visibility Two-photon Interference with Classical Light
authors: Peilong Hong, Lei Xu, Zhaohui Zhai, Guoquan Zhang
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express 21(12), 14056 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5945
abstract: Two-photon interference with independent classical sources, in which superposition of two indistinguishable two-photon paths plays a key role, is of limited visibility of interference fringes with a maximum value of 50%. By using a random-phase grating to modulate the wavefront of a coherent light, we introduce superposition of multiple indistinguishable two-photon paths, which enhances the two-photon interference effect with a signature of visibility exceeding 50%. The result shows the importance of phase control in the control of high-order coherence of classical light.

id: 1301.5981
title: Measurement-Induced-Nonlocality via the Unruh effect
authors: Zehua Tian, Jiliang Jing
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures, accepted for publication in Annals of Physics. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1204.2326
journal: Annals of Physics 333 (2013) 76
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5981
abstract: Treated beyond the single-mode approximation, Measurement-Induced-Nonlocality (MIN) is investigated for both Dirac and Bosonic fields in non-inertial frames. Two distinctly differences between the Dirac and Bosonic fields are: (i) the MIN for Dirac fields persists for any acceleration, while the quantity for Bosonic fields does decay to zero in the infinite acceleration limit; (ii) the dynamic behaviors of the MIN for Dirac fields is quite different from the Bosonic fields case. Besides, we also study the nonlocality for Dirac fields and find that the MIN is more general than the quantum nonlocality related to violation of Bell's inequalities. Meanwhile some discussions of geometric discord are presented too.

id: 1301.5987
title: Nonlocality and Entanglement via the Unruh effect
authors: Zehua Tian, Jieci Wang, Jiliang Jing
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures, accepted for publication in Annals of Physics. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1003.4477 by other authors
journal: Annals of Physics 332 (2013) 98
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5987
abstract: Modeling the qubit by a two-level semiclassical detector coupled to a massless scalar field, we investigate how the Unruh effect affects the nonlocality and entanglement of two-qubit and three-qubit states when one of the entangled qubits is accelerated. Two distinct differences with the results of free field model in non-inertial frames are (i) for the two-qubit state, the CHSH inequality can not be violated for sufficiently large but finite acceleration, furthermore, the concurrence will experience "sudden death"; and (ii) for the three-qubit state, not only the entanglement vanishes in the infinite acceleration limit, but also the Svetlichny inequality can not be violated in the case of large acceleration.

id: 1301.6028
title: Excitons and Cavity Polaritons for Optical Lattice Ultracold Atoms
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 54 pages, 28 figures
journal: Advances in Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics, Vol 62, pp. 171-229. (Academic Press, 2013) ISBN. 978-0-12-408090-4
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6028
abstract: Ultracold atoms uniformly filling an optical lattice can be treated like an artificial crystal. An implementation including the atomic occupation of a single excited atomic state can be represented by a two-component Bose-Hubbard model. Its phase diagram exhibits a quantum phase transition from a superfluid to a Mott insulator phase. The dynamics of electronic excitations governed by electrostatic dipole-dipole interactions in the ordered regime can be well described by wave-like collective excitations called excitons. Here we present an extensive study of such excitons for a wide range of geometries and dimensionality. Their lifetimes can vary over many orders of magnitude from metastable propagation to superradiant decay. Particularly strong effects occur in one dimensional atomic chains coupled to tapered optical fibers. For an optical lattice within a cavity the excitons are coupled to cavity photons and the resulting collective cavity QED model can be efficiently formulated in terms of polaritons. Their properties are explicitly calculated for different lattices and they constitute a non-destructive monitoring tool for important system properties. Even the formation of molecules in optical lattices manifests itself in modified polariton properties as e.g. an anisotropic optical spectrum. Partial dissipation of the exciton energy in the lattice leads to heating, which can be microscopically understood through a mechanism transferring atoms into higher Bloch bands via a resonant excitation transfer among neighboring lattice sites. The presence of lattice defects like vacancies in the Mott insulator induces a characteristic scattering of polaritons, which can be optically observed to monitor the lattice integrity. Our models can be applied to simulate and understand corresponding collective phenomena in solid crystals, where many effects are often masked by noise and disorder.

id: 1301.6043
title: Is Planck's Constant h a "Quantum" Constant? An Alternative Classical Interpretation
authors: Timothy H. Boyer
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6043
abstract: Although Planck's constant h is currently regarded as the elementary quantum of action appearing in quantum theory, it can also be interpreted as the multiplicative scale factor setting the scale of classical zero-point radiation appearing in classical electromagnetic theory. Relativistic classical electron theory with classical electromagnetic zero-point radiation gives many results in agreement with quantum theory. The areas of agreement between this classical theory and Nature seem worth further investigation.

id: 1301.6046
title: Experimenting an optical second with strontium lattice clocks
authors: R. Le Targat, L. Lorini, Y. Le Coq, M. Zawada, J. Gu¨¦na, M. Abgrall, M. Gurov, P. Rosenbusch, D. G. Rovera, B. Nag¨®rny, R. Gartman, P. G. Westergaard, M. E. Tobar, M. Lours, G. Santarelli, A. Clairon, S. Bize, P. Laurent, P. Lemonde, J. Lodewyck
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables
journal: Nature Communication 4, 2109 (July 2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6046
abstract: Progress in realizing the SI second had multiple technological impacts and enabled to further constraint theoretical models in fundamental physics. Caesium microwave fountains, realizing best the second according to its current definition with a relative uncertainty of 2-4x10^(-16), have already been superseded by atomic clocks referenced to an optical transition, both more stable and more accurate. Are we ready for a new definition of the second? Here we present an important step in this direction: our system of five clocks connects with an unprecedented consistency the optical and the microwave worlds. For the first time, two state-of-the-art strontium optical lattice clocks are proven to agree within their accuracy budget, with a total uncertainty of 1.6x10^(-16). Their comparison with three independent caesium fountains shows a degree of reproducibility henceforth solely limited at the level of 3.1x10^(-16) by the best realizations of the microwave-defined second.

id: 1301.6048
title: Polarization Bremsstrahlung in collissions of fast ions with multiatomic targets
authors: M. Ya. Amusia, V. I. Matveev
comments: 7 pages, in Russian
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6048
abstract: We consider the processes of polarization bremsstrahlung in collisions of fast ions with linear chains consisting of isolated atoms. We obtained intensities and angular distributions of radiation spectra for arbitrary number of atoms in the chain. It appeared that interference in the photon radiation amplitudes lead to prominent variation of spectral angular distributions of polarization bremsstrahlung as compared to these distribuitions in collisions with an isolated atom. The mean loss of energy due to radiation or the so-called rediative friction is estimated. The results obtained permit standard generalization to the case of polarization bremsstrahlung in fast ion chanelling above surfaces an and in solid body.

id: 1301.6148
title: Dirac Equation with vector and scalar potentials via Supersymmetry in Quantum Mechanics
authors: E. S. Rodrigues, A. F. de Lima, R. de Lima Rodrigues
comments: 14 pages, to be submitted to Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6148
abstract: In this work, a spin $\frac 12$ relativistic particle described by a generalized potential containing both the Coulomb potential and a Lorentz scalar potential in Dirac equation is investigated in terms of the generalized ladder operators from supersymmetry in quantum mechanics. This formalism is applied for the generalized Dirac-Coulomb problem, which is an exactly solvable potential in relativistic quantum mechanics. We obtain the energy eigenvalues and calculate explicitly the energy eigenfunctions for the ground state and the first excited state.

id: 1301.6176
title: Solving the Shortest Vector Problem in Lattices Faster Using Quantum Search
authors: Thijs Laarhoven, Michele Mosca, Joop van de Pol
comments: 19 pages
journal: 5th International Workshop on Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQCrypto), pp. 83-101, 2013
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6176
abstract: By applying Grover's quantum search algorithm to the lattice algorithms of Micciancio and Voulgaris, Nguyen and Vidick, Wang et al., and Pujol and Stehl\'{e}, we obtain improved asymptotic quantum results for solving the shortest vector problem. With quantum computers we can provably find a shortest vector in time $2^{1.799n + o(n)}$, improving upon the classical time complexity of $2^{2.465n + o(n)}$ of Pujol and Stehl\'{e} and the $2^{2n + o(n)}$ of Micciancio and Voulgaris, while heuristically we expect to find a shortest vector in time $2^{0.312n + o(n)}$, improving upon the classical time complexity of $2^{0.384n + o(n)}$ of Wang et al. These quantum complexities will be an important guide for the selection of parameters for post-quantum cryptosystems based on the hardness of the shortest vector problem.

id: 1301.6207
title: Critical behavior of the PT-symmetric $i¦Õ^3$ quantum field theory
authors: Carl M. Bender, V. Branchina, Emanuele Messina
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6207
abstract: It was shown recently that a PT-symmetric $i\phi^3$ quantum field theory in $6-\epsilon$ dimensions possesses a nontrivial fixed point. The critical behavior of this theory around the fixed point is examined and it is shown that the corresponding phase transition is related to the existence of a nontrivial solution of the gap equation. The theory is studied first in the mean-field approximation and the critical exponents are calculated. Then, it is examined beyond the mean-field approximation by using renormalization-group techniques, and the critical exponents for $6-\epsilon$ dimensions are calculated to order $\epsilon$. It is shown that because of its stability the PT-symmetric $i\phi^3$ theory has a higher predictive power than the conventional $\phi^3$ theory. A comparison of the $i\phi^3$ model with the Lee-Yang model is given.

id: 1301.6248
title: Monitoring the formation of oxide apertures in micropillar cavities
authors: Morten P. Bakker, Henk Snijders, Donald J. Suntrup III, Tuan-Ahn Truong, Pierre M. Petroff, Martin P. van Exter, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6248
abstract: An imaging technique is presented that enables monitoring of the wet thermal oxidation of a thin AlAs layer embedded between two distributed Bragg reflector (DBR) mirrors in a micropillar. After oxidation we confirm by white light reflection spectroscopy that high quality optical modes confined to a small volume have been formed. The combination of these two optical techniques provides a reliable and efficient way of producing oxide apertured micropillar cavities for which the wet thermal oxidation is a critical fabrication step.

id: 1301.6264
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency with degenerate atomic levels
authors: V. A. Reshetov, I. V. Meleshko
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: Laser Phys. 24 (2014) 094011 (6pp)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6264
abstract: For the coherently driven \Lambda-type three-level systems the general ready-to-calculate expression for the susceptibility tensor at the frequency of the weak probe field is obtained for the arbitrary polarization of the strong coupling laser field and arbitrary values of the angular momenta of resonant atomic levels. The dependence of the relative difference in the group velocities of the two polarization components of the probe field on the polarization of the coupling field is studied.

id: 1301.6339
title: Lov¨¢sz's Theta Function, R¨¦nyi's Divergence and the Sphere-Packing Bound
authors: Marco Dalai
comments: An excerpt from arXiv:1201.5411v3 (with a different notation) accepted at ISIT 2013
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6339
abstract: Lov\'asz's bound to the capacity of a graph and the the sphere-packing bound to the probability of error in channel coding are given a unified presentation as information radii of the Csisz\'ar type using the R{\'e}nyi divergence in the classical-quantum setting. This brings together two results in coding theory that are usually considered as being of a very different nature, one being a "combinatorial" result and the other being "probabilistic". In the context of quantum information theory, this difference disappears.

id: 1301.6374
title: Symmetries and optical transitions of hexagonal quantum dots in GaAs/AlGaAs nanowires
authors: Guro K. Svendsen, Johannes Skaar, Helge Weman, Marc-Andr¨¦ Dupertuis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6374
abstract: We investigate the properties of electronic states and optical transitions in hexagonal GaAs quantum dots within AlGaAs nanowires. Such dots are particularly interesting due to their high degree of symmetry. A streamlined postsymmetrization technique based on class operators (PTCO) is developed which enables one to benefit in one run from the insight brought by the Maximal symmetrization and reduction of fields (MSRF) approach reported by Dalessi et al. [Phys. Rev. B 81, 125106 (2010)], after having solved the Schr\"odinger equation. Definite advantages of the PTCO are that it does not require having to modify any existing code for the calculation of the electronic structure, and that it allows to numerically test for elevated symmetries. We show in the frame of a 4-band k.p model that despite the fact that the D6h symmetry of the nanostructure is broken at the microscopic level by the underlying Zinc Blende crystal structure, the effect is quite small. Most of the particularities of the electronic states and their optical emission can be understood by symmetry elevation to D6h and the presence of approximate azimuthal and radial quantum numbers.

id: 1301.6381
title: Charge noise and spin noise in a semiconductor quantum device
authors: Andreas V. Kuhlmann, Julien Houel, Arne Ludwig, Lukas Greuter, Dirk Reuter, Andreas D. Wieck, Martino Poggio, Richard J. Warburton
comments: 
journal: Nature Phys. 9, 570 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6381
abstract: Solid-state systems which mimic two-level atoms are being actively developed. Improving the quantum coherence of these systems, for instance spin qubits or single photon emitters using semiconductor quantum dots, involves dealing with noise. The sources of noise are inherent to the semiconductor and are complex. Charge noise results in a fluctuating electric field, spin noise in a fluctuating magnetic field at the location of the qubit, and both can lead to dephasing and decoherence of optical and spin states. We investigate noise in an ultra-pure semiconductor using a minimally-invasive, ultra-sensitive, local probe: resonance fluorescence from a single quantum dot. We distinguish between charge noise and spin noise via a crucial difference in their optical signatures. Noise spectra for both electric and magnetic fields are derived. The noise spectrum of the charge noise can be fully described by the fluctuations in an ensemble of localized charge defects in the semiconductor. We demonstrate the "semiconductor vacuum" for the optical transition at frequencies above 50 kHz: by operating the device at high enough frequencies, we demonstrate transform-limited quantum dot optical linewidths.

id: 1301.6499
title: Radiation reaction in strong field QED
authors: Anton Ilderton, Greger Torgrimsson
comments: Version2: 7 pages, 2 figures. Discussion of related results and applications extended, references added. Matches version to appear in Phys.Lett.B
journal: Phys. Lett. B 725 (2013) 481
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6499
abstract: We derive radiation reaction from QED in a strong background field. We identify, in general, the diagrams and processes contributing to recoil effects in the average momentum of a scattered electron, using perturbation theory in the Furry picture: we work to lowest nontrivial order in the electromagnetic coupling alpha. For the explicit example of scattering in a plane wave background, we compare QED with classical electrodynamics in the limit h-bar goes to zero, finding agreement with the Lorentz-Abraham-Dirac and Landau-Lifshitz equations, and with Larmor's formula. The first quantum corrections are also presented.

id: 1301.6517
title: Lagrange mesh and exact diagonalization for numerical study of semiconductor quantum dot systems with application in singlet-triplet qubits
authors: Tuukka Hiltunen, Juha Ritala, Oona Kupiainen, Topi Siro, Ari Harju
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6517
abstract: We present a highly flexible computational scheme for studying correlated electrons confined by an arbitrary external potential in two-dimensional semiconductor quantum dots. The method starts by a Lagrange mesh calculation for the single-particle states, followed by the calculation of the Coulomb interaction matrix elements between these, and combining both in the exact diagonalization of the many-body Hamiltonian. We apply the method in simulation of double quantum dot singlet-triplet qubits. We simulate the full quantum control and dynamics of one singlet-triplet qubit. We also use our method to provide an exact diagonalization based first-principles model for studying two singlet-triplet qubits and their capacitative coupling via the long-distance Coulomb interaction.

id: 1301.6535
title: Infra-red expansion of entanglement entropy in the Interacting Resonant Level Model
authors: Lo?c Freton, Edouard Boulat, Hubert Saleur
comments: 27 pages, 11 figures
journal: Nuclear Physics B 874 (2013) 279-311
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6535
abstract: In this paper we develop a method to describe perturbatively the entanglement entropy in a simple impurity model, the interacting resonant level model (IRLM), at low energy (i.e. in the strong coupling regime). We use integrability results or the Kondo model to describe the infra-red fixed point, conformal field theory techniques initially developped by Cardy and Calabrese and a quantization scheme that allows one to compute exactly Renyi entropies at arbitrary order in $1/T_B$ in principle, even when the system size or the temperature is finite. We show that those universal quantities at arbitrary interaction parameter in the strong coupling regime are very well approximated by the same quantities in the free fermion system in the case of attractive Coulomb interaction, whereas a strong dependence on the interaction appears in the case of repulsive interaction.

id: 1301.6631
title: Measuring the Casimir force gradient from graphene on a SiO_2 substrate
authors: A. A. Banishev, H. Wen, J. Xu, R. K. Kawakami, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 9 pages, 1 table, 3 figures; minor revisions have been made in accordance to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.87, 205433 (2013)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6631
abstract: The gradient of the Casimir force between a Si-SiO${}_2$-graphene substrate and an Au-coated sphere is measured by means of a dynamic atomic force microscope operated in the frequency shift technique. It is shown that the presence of graphene leads to up to 9% increase in the force gradient at the shortest separation considered. This is in qualitative agreement with the predictions of an additive theory using the Dirac model of graphene.

id: 1301.6663
title: Using Quantum Coherence to Enhance Gain in Atomic Physics
authors: Pankaj K. Jha
comments: 16 pages, 16 figures. Review Article
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6663
abstract: Quantum coherence and interference effects in atomic and molecular physics has been extensively studied due to intriguing counterintuitive physics and potential important applications. Here we present one such application of using quantum coherence to generate and enhance gain in extreme ultra-violet(XUV)(@58.4nm in Helium) and infra-red(@794.76nm in Rubidium) regime of electromagnetic radiation. We show that using moderate external coherent drive, a substantial enhancement in the energy of the lasing pulse can be achieved under optimal conditions. We also discuss the role of coherence. The present paper is intended to be pedagogical on this subject of coherence-enhanced lasing.

id: 1301.6804
title: Quantum Information-Flow Security: Noninterference and Access Control
authors: Mingsheng Ying, Yuang Feng, Nengkun Yu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6804
abstract: Quantum cryptography has been extensively studied in the last twenty years, but information-flow security of quantum computing and communication systems has been almost untouched in the previous research. Duo to the essential difference between classical and quantum systems, formal methods developed for classical systems, including probabilistic systems, cannot be directly applied to quantum systems. This paper defines an automata model in which we can rigorously reason about information-flow security of quantum systems. The model is a quantum generalisation of Goguen and Meseguer's noninterference. The unwinding proof technique for quantum noninterference is developed, and a certain compositionality of security for quantum systems is established. The proposed formalism is then used to prove security of access control in quantum systems.

id: 1301.6827
title: Hellmann and Feynman theorem versus diffusion Monte Carlo experiment
authors: Riccardo Fantoni
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: Solid State Communications, 159, 106 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6827
abstract: In a computer experiment the choice of suitable estimators to measure a physical quantity plays an important role. We propose a new direct route to determine estimators for observables which do not commute with the Hamiltonian. Our new route makes use of the Hellmann and Feynman theorem and in a diffusion Monte Carlo simulation it introduces a new bias to the measure due to the choice of the auxiliary function. This bias is independent from the usual one due to the choice of the trial wave function. We used our route to measure the radial distribution function of a spin one half Fermion fluid.

id: 1301.6907
title: High-Precision Measurement of Rydberg State Hyperfine Splitting in a Room-Temperature Vapour Cell
authors: Atreju Tauschinsky, Richard Newell, H. B. van Linden van den Heuvell, R. J. C. Spreeuw
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042522 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6907
abstract: We present direct measurements of the hyperfine splitting of Rydberg states in rubidium 87 using Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) spectroscopy in a room-temperature vapour cell. With this method, and in spite of Doppler-broadening, line-widths of 3.7 MHz FWHM, i.e. significantly below the intermediate state natural linewidth are reached. This allows resolving hyperfine splittings for Rydberg s-states with n=20...24. With this method we are able to determine Rydberg state hyperfine splittings with an accuracy of approximately 100 kHz. Ultimately our method allows accuracies of order 5 kHz to be reached. Furthermore we present a direct measurement of hyperfine-resolved Rydberg state Stark-shifts. These results will be of great value for future experiments relying on excellent knowledge of Rydberg-state energies and

id: 1301.6951
title: Creation and dynamics of remote spin-entangled pairs in the expansion of strongly correlated fermions in an optical lattice
authors: Stefan Kessler, Ian P. McCulloch, Florian Marquardt
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures, version as published (the title has been slightly changed)
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 053043 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.6951
abstract: We consider the nonequilibrium dynamics of an interacting spin-1/2 fermion gas in a one-dimensional optical lattice after switching off the confining potential. In particular, we study the creation and the time evolution of spatially separated, spin-entangled fermionic pairs. The time-dependent density-matrix renormalization group is used to simulate the time evolution and evaluate the two-site spin correlation functions, from which the concurrence is calculated. We find that the typical distance between entangled fermions depends crucially on the onsite interaction strength, and that a time-dependent modulation of the tunneling amplitude can enhance the production of spin-entanglement. Moreover, we discuss the prospects of experimentally observing these phenomena using spin-dependent single-site detection.

id: 1301.7008
title: Double-slit vacuum polarisation effects in ultra-intense laser fields
authors: B. King, A. Di Piazza, C. H. Keitel
comments: Originally submitted on 15th April 2010 and published on 17th September 2010
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7008
abstract: The influence of the strong laser-driven vacuum on a propagating electromagnetic probe wave has been studied in detail. We investigate two scenarios comprising a focused probe laser beam passing through a region of vacuum polarised by an ultra-intense laser field. By splitting this strong field into two, separated, monochromatic Gaussian pulses counter-propagating in a plane perpendicular to the probe field axis, we demonstrate a leading order light-by-light diffraction effect that generates an interference pattern reminiscent of the classic double-slit experiment. We calculate the total number of probe photons diffracted as well as the number diffracted into regions where the vacuum polarisation signal is higher than the probe background. In addition, we calculate the induced ellipticity and polarisation rotation in the probe beam and show how, in the realistic situation in which the centres of the two strong fields are not exactly aligned, certain ranges of beam separation and observation distance may actually lead to an increase over the idealised case of a single strong laser beam.

id: 1301.7025
title: Casimir probe based upon metallized high Q SiN nanomembrane resonator
authors: Daniel Garcia-Sanchez, King Yan Fong, Harish Bhaskaran, Steve Lamoreaux, Hong X. Tang
comments: 
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 84, 015115 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7025
abstract: We present the instrumentation and measurement scheme of a new Casimir force probe that bridges Casimir force measurements at microscale and macroscale. A metallized high Q silicon nitride nanomembrane resonator is employed as a sensitive force probe. The high tensile stress present in the nanomembrane not only enhances the quality factor but also maintains high flatness over large area serving as the bottom electrode in a sphere-plane configuration. A fiber interferometer is used to readout the oscillation of the nanomembrane and a phase-locked loop scheme is applied to track the change of the resonance frequency. Because of the high quality factor of the nanomembrane and the high stability of the setup, a frequency resolution down to $2\times10^{-9}$ and a corresponding force gradient resolution of 3 $\mu$N/m is achieved. Besides sensitive measurement of Casimir force, our measurement technique simultaneously offers Kelvin probe measurement capability that allows in situ imaging of the surface potentials.

id: 1301.7038
title: A matterless double slit
authors: B. King, A. Di Piazza, C. H. Keitel
comments: Originally submitted 1st July 2009, published 10th January 2010
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7038
abstract: Double-slits provide incoming photons with a choice. Those that survive the passage have chosen from two possible paths which interfere to distribute them in a wave-like manner. Such wave-particle duality continues to be challenged and investigated in a broad range of disciplines with electrons, neutrons, helium atoms, C60 fullerenes, Bose-Einstein condensates and biological molecules. All variants have hitherto involved material constituents. We present a matterless double-slit scenario in which photons generated from virtual electron-positron pair annihilation in head-on collisions of a probe laser field with two ultra-intense laser beams form a double-slit interference pattern. Such electromagnetic fields are predicted to induce material-like behaviour in the vacuum, supporting elastic scattering between photons. Our double-slit scenario presents on the one hand a realisable method to observe photon-photon scattering, and demonstrates on the other, the possibility of both controlling light with light and non-locally investigating features of the quantum vacuum's structure.

id: 1301.7135
title: Protection of quantum states from disturbance due to random potential by successive translation
authors: Shumpei Masuda
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7135
abstract: We show a method to protect quantum states from the disturbance due to the random potential by successive rapid manipulations of the quantum states. The quantum states are kept undisturbed for a longer time than the case of the simple trapping with a stationary potential. The effective potential, which the quantum states feel, becomes uniform when the velocity of the transport is sufficiently large. It is also shown that the alternating transport of a Bose-Einstein condensate with the driving potential derived by fast-forward scaling theory [Masuda and Nakamura, Proc. R. Soc. A 466, 1135 (2010)] can protect it from the disturbance.

id: 1301.7136
title: Heavily Enhanced Dynamic Stark Shift in a System of Bose Einstein Condensation of Photons
authors: Weikang Fan, Miao Yin, Ze Cheng
comments: 7 pages, 2figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7136
abstract: The dynamic Stark shift of a high-lying atom in a system of Bose Einstein condensation (BEC) of photons is discussed within the framework of nonrelativistic quantum electrodynamics (QED) theory. It is found that the Stark shift of an atom in BEC of photons is modified by a temperature dependent factor, compared to that in a normal two-dimensional photonic fluid. In photonic BEC, the value of Stark shift is always greater than that in two-dimensional free space. Physical origin of the phenomenon is presented and potential application is also discussed.

id: 1301.7201
title: Scalar field entanglement entropy for small Schwarzschild black hole
authors: Maksym Teslyk, Olena Teslyk
comments: 10 pages
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 30 (2013) 125013
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7201
abstract: We consider scalar field entanglement entropy generated with black hole of (sub)planck mass scale thus implying the unitary evolution of gravity. The dependence on the dimension of the Hilbert space for degrees of freedom located behind the horizon is taken into account. The obtained results contain polylogarithmic terms.

id: 1301.7430
title: Unveiling environmental entanglement in strongly dissipative qubits
authors: Soumya Bera, Serge Florens, Harold Baranger, Nicolas Roch, Ahsan Nazir, Alex Chin
comments: 7+7 pages, 5+5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7430
abstract: The coupling of a qubit to a macroscopic reservoir plays a fundamental role in understanding the complex transition from the quantum to the classical world. Considering a harmonic environment, we use both intuitive arguments and numerical many-body quantum tomography to study the structure of the complete wavefunction arising in the strong-coupling regime, reached for intense qubit-environment interaction. The resulting strongly-correlated many-body ground state is built from quantum superpositions of adiabatic (polaron-like) and non-adiabatic (antipolaron-like) contributions from the bath of quantum oscillators. The emerging Schr\"odinger cat environmental wavefunctions can be described quantitatively via simple variational coherent states. In contrast to qubit-environment entanglement, we show that non-classicality and entanglement among the modes in the reservoir are crucial for the stabilization of qubit superpositions in regimes where standard theories predict an effectively classical spin.

id: 1301.7541
title: Sp(2,$\mathbb{Z}$) invariant Wigner function on even dimensional vector space
authors: Minoru Horibe, Takaaki Hashimoto, Akihisa Hayashi
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7541
abstract: We construct the quasi probability distribution $W(p,q)$ on even dimensional vector space with marginality and invariance under the transformation induced by projective representation of the group ${\rm Sp}(2,\mathbb{Z})$ whose elements correspond to linear canonical transformation. On even dimensional vector space, non-existence of such a quasi probability distribution whose arguments take physical values was shown in our previous paper(Phys.Rev.A{\bf 65} 032105(2002)). For this reason we study a quasi probability distribution $W(p,q)$ whose arguments $q$ and $p$ take not only $N$ physical values but also $N$ unphysical values, where $N$ is dimension of vector space. It is shown that there are two quasi probability distributions on even dimensional vector space. The one is equivalent to the Wigner function proposed by Leonhardt, and the other is a new one.

id: 1301.7575
title: Cooperative Fluorescence from a Strongly Driven Dilute Cloud of Atoms
authors: J. R. Ott, M. Wubs, P. Lodahl, N. A. Mortensen, R. Kaiser
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, supplementary material available upon request
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 061801(R) (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7575
abstract: We investigate cooperative fluorescence in a dilute cloud of strongly driven two-level emitters. Starting from the Heisenberg equations of motion, we compute the first-order scattering corrections to the saturation of the excited-state population and to the resonance-fluorescence spectrum, which both require going beyond the state-of-the-art linear-optics approach to describe collective phenomena. A dipole blockade is observed due to long range dipole-dipole coupling that vanishes at stronger driving fields. Furthermore, we compute the inelastic component of the light scattered by a cloud of many atoms and find that the Mollow triplet is affected by cooperativity. In a lobe around the forward direction, the inelastic Mollow triplet develops a spectral asymmetry, observable under experimental conditions.

id: 1301.7601
title: On the number of real eigenvalues of products of random matrices and an application to quantum entanglement
authors: Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: Revised and published version, 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. Vol. 46, 152003 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.7601
abstract: The probability that there are $k$ real eigenvalues for an $n$ dimensional real random matrix is known. Here we study this for the case of products of independent random matrices. Relating the problem of the probability that the product of two real 2 dimensional random matrices has real eigenvalues to an issue of optimal quantum entanglement, this is fully analytically solved. It is shown that in $\pi/4$ fraction of such products the eigenvalues are real. Being greater than the corresponding known probability ($1/\sqrt{2}$) for a single matrix, it is shown numerically that the probability that {\it all} eigenvalues of a product of random matrices are real tends to unity as the number of matrices in the product increases indefinitely. Some other numerical explorations, including the expected number of real eigenvalues is also presented, where an exponential approach of the expected number to the dimension of the matrix seems to hold.

id: 1301.5509
title: On the rest and flat limits of the scalar modes on the de Sitter spacetime
authors: Ion I. Cotaescu, Gabriel Pascu, Flavius Alin Dregoesc
comments: 9 pages no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5509
abstract: The scalar mode functions on the spatially flat FLRW chart of the de Sitter spacetime are redefined in order to obtain a natural frequencies separation in the special local charts where the momentum vanishes, called here (natural) rest frames. This can be done since in such frames the mode functions are eigenfunctions of the energy operator. Moreover, the most general criteria for choosing the suitable phase factors of the mode functions able to simultaneously determine the correct rest and flat limits are established. These results are compared to the different original choices from the literature. Pacs: 04.62.+v

