id: 1302.0037
title: Unavoidable decoherence in the quantum control of an unknown state
authors: D. Kielpinski, R. A. Briggs, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 3 pages. To be published in Quantum Measurements & Quantum Metrology this http URL
journal: Quantum Meas. Quantum Metr. 1, 1-4 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0037
abstract: A common objective for quantum control is to force a quantum system, initially in an unknown state, into a particular target subspace. We show that if the subspace is required to be a decoherence-free subspace of dimension greater than 1, then such control must be decoherent. That is, it will take almost any pure state to a mixed state. We make no assumptions about the control mechanism, but our result implies that for this purpose coherent control offers no advantage, in principle, over the obvious measurement-based feedback protocol.

id: 1302.0045
title: Photonic spatial Bell-state analysis for robust quantum secure direct communication using quantum dot-cavity systems
authors: Bao-Cang Ren, Hai-Rui Wei, Ming Hua, Tao Li, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 67, 30 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0045
abstract: Recently, experiments showed that the spatial-mode states of entangled photons are more robust than their polarization-mode states in quantum communications. Here we construct a complete and deterministic protocol for analyzing the spatial Bell states using the interaction between a photon and an electron spin in a charged quantum dot inside a one-side micropillar microcavity. A quantum nondemolition detector (QND) for checking the parity of a two-photon system can be constructed with the giant optical Faraday rotation in this solid state system. With this parity-check QND, we present a complete and deterministic proposal for the analysis of the four spatial-mode Bell states. Moreover, we present a robust two-step quantum secure direct communication protocol based on the spatial-mode Bell states and the photonic spatial Bell-state analysis. Our analysis shows that our BSA proposal works in both the strong and the weak coupling regimes if the side leakage and cavity loss rate is small.

id: 1302.0046
title: Universal quantum gates for hybrid systems assisted by quantum dots inside double-sided optical microcavities
authors: Hai-Rui Wei, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022305 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0046
abstract: We present some deterministic schemes to construct universal quantum gates, that is, controlled- NOT, three-qubit Toffoli, and Fredkin gates, between flying photon qubits and stationary electron-spin qubits assisted by quantum dots inside double-sided optical microcavities. The control qubit of our gates is encoded on the polarization of the moving single photon and the target qubits are encoded on the confined electron spins in quantum dots inside optical microcavities. Our schemes for these universal quantum gates on a hybrid system have some advantages. First, all the gates are accomplished with the success probability of 100% in principle. Second, our schemes require no additional qubits. Third, the control qubits of the gates are easily manipulated and the target qubits are perfect for storage and processing. Fourth, the gates do not require that the transmission for the uncoupled cavity is balanceable to the reflectance for the coupled cavity, in order to get a high fidelity. Fifth, the devices for the three universal gates work in both the weak coupling and the strong coupling regimes, and they are feasible in experiment.

id: 1302.0056
title: Synthesis of Multivalued Quantum Logic Circuits by Elementary Gates
authors: Yao-Min Di, Hai-Rui Wei
comments: 9 pages, 14 figures, 2 tables. Expanded version of quant-ph/1105.5485
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012325 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0056
abstract: We propose the generalized controlled X (GCX) gate as the two-qudit elementary gate, and based on Cartan decomposition, we also give the one-qudit elementary gates. Then we discuss the physical implementation of these elementary gates and show that it is feasible with current technology. With these elementary gates many important qudit quantum gates can be synthesized conveniently. We provide efficient methods for the synthesis of various kinds of controlled qudit gates and greatly simplify the synthesis of existing generic multi-valued quantum circuits. Moreover, we generalize the quantum Shannon decomposition (QSD), the most powerful technique for the synthesis of generic qubit circuits, to the qudit case. A comparison of ququart (d=4) circuits and qubit circuits reveals that using ququart circuits may have an advantage over the qubit circuits in the synthesis of quantum circuits.

id: 1302.0090
title: Quantum Hacking on Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution System using a Wavelength Attack
authors: Jing-Zheng Huang, Christian Weedbrook, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Shuang Wang, Hong-Wei Li, Wei Chen, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1206.6550
journal: Physical Review A 87, 062329 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0090
abstract: The security proofs of continuous-variable quantum key distribution are based on the assumptions that the eavesdropper can neither act on the local oscillator nor control Bob's beam splitter. These assumptions may be invalid in practice due to potential imperfections in the implementations of such protocols. In this paper, we consider the problem of transmitting the local oscillator in a public channel and propose a wavelength attack which can allow the eavesdropper to control the intensity transmission of Bob's beam splitter by switching the wavelength of the input light. Specifically we target continuous-variable quantum key distribution systems that use the heterodyne detection protocol using either direct or reverse reconciliation. Our attack is proved to be feasible and renders all of the final key shared between the legitimate parties insecure, even if they have monitored the intensity of the local oscillator. To prevent our attack on commercial systems, a simple wavelength filter should be added before performing the monitoring detection.

id: 1302.0105
title: Entanglement dynamics in finite qudit chain in consistent magnetic field
authors: E. A. Ivanchenko
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1106.2297
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 10, No. 6 (2012) 1250068 (13 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0105
abstract: Based on the Liouville-von Neumann equation, we obtain a closed system of equations for the description of a qutrit or coupled qutrits in an arbitrary, time-dependent, external magnetic field. The dependence of the dynamics on the initial states and the magnetic field modulation is studied analytically and numerically. We compare the relative entanglement measure's dynamics in bi-qudits with permutation particle symmetry. We find the magnetic field modulation which retains the entanglement in the system of two coupled qutrits. Analytical formulae for the entanglement measures in finite chains from 2 to 6 qutrits or 3 quartits are presented.

id: 1302.0156
title: State reconstruction of a multimode twin beam using photodetection
authors: Jan Perina Jr, Ondrej Haderka, Vaclav Michalek, Martin Hamar
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022108 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0156
abstract: Robust and reliable method for reconstructing quasi-distributions of integrated intensities of twin beams generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion and entangled in photon numbers is suggested. It utilizes the first and second photocount moments and minimizes the declination from experimental photocount histograms. Qualitatively different forms of quasi-distributions for quantum and classical states are suggested in the method. The transition from quantum to classical states caused by an increased detection noise is discussed. Momentum criterion for non-classicality of twin beams is suggested.

id: 1302.0175
title: Criteria of positivity for linear maps constructed from permutation pairs
authors: Haili Zhao, Jinchuan Hou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0175
abstract: In this paper, we show that a $D$-type map $\Phi_D:M_n\rightarrow M_n$ with $D=(n-2)I_n+P_{\pi_1}+P_{\pi_2}$ induced by a pair $\{\pi_1,\pi_2\}$ of permutations of $(1,2,..., n)$ is positive if $\{\pi_1,\pi_2\}$ has property (C). The property (C) is characterized for $\{\pi_1,\pi_2\}$, and an easy criterion is given for the case that $\pi_1=\pi^p$ and $\pi_2=\pi^q$, where $\pi$ is the permutation defined by $\pi(i)=i+1$ mod $n$ and $1\leq p<q\leq n$.

id: 1302.0205
title: Quantum probes to assess correlations in a composite system
authors: Andrea Smirne, Simone Cialdi, Giorgio Anelli, Matteo G.A. Paris, Bassano Vacchini
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012108 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0205
abstract: We suggest and demonstrate experimentally a strategy to obtain relevant information about a composite system by only performing measurements on a small and easily accessible part of it, which we call quantum probe. We show in particular how quantitative information about the angular correlations of couples of entangled photons generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion is accessed through the study of the trace distance between two polarization states evolved from different initial conditions. After estimating the optimal polarization states to be used as quantum probe, we provide a detailed analysis of the connection between the increase of the trace distance above its initial value and the amount of angular correlations.

id: 1302.0206
title: Null Phase Curves and Manifolds in Geometric Phase Theory
authors: S. Chaturvedi, E. Ercolessi, G. Morandi, A. Ibort, G. Marmo, N. Mukunda, R. Simon
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0206
abstract: Bargmann invariants and null phase curves are known to be important ingredients in understanding the essential nature of the geometric phase in quantum mechanics. Null phase manifolds in quantum-mechanical ray spaces are submanifolds made up entirely of null phase curves, and so are equally important for geometric phase considerations. It is shown that the complete characterization of null phase manifolds involves both the Riemannian metric structure and the symplectic structure of ray space in equal measure, which thus brings together these two aspects in a natural manner.

id: 1302.0229
title: Direct observation of sub-binomial light
authors: Tim J. Bartley, Gaia Donati, Xian-Min Jin, Animesh Datta, Marco Barbieri, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. References added. Note that Eq. (2) has been corrected in this version from the published manuscript. We are grateful to Arturo Lezama for pointing out the error
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 173602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0229
abstract: Nonclassical states of light are necessary resources for quantum technologies such as cryptography, computation and the definition of metrological standards. Observing signatures of nonclassicality generally requires inferring either the photon number distribution or a quasi-probability distribution indirectly from a set of measurements. Here, we report an experiment in which the nonclassical character of families of quantum states is assessed by direct inspection of the outcomes from a multiplexed photon counter. This scheme does not register the actual photon number distribution; the statistics of the detector clicks alone serve as a witness of nonclassicality, as proposed by Sperling et al. in Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 093601 (2012). Our work paves a way for the practical characterisation of increasingly sophisticated states and detectors.

id: 1302.0268
title: Amplification of realistic cat-like states by homodyne heralding
authors: Amine Laghaout, Jonas S. Neergaard-Nielsen, Ioannes Rigas, Christian Kragh, Anders Tipsmark, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 11 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043826 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0268
abstract: We present a scheme for the amplification of Schrodinger cats that collapses two smaller states onto their constructive interference via a homodyne projection. We analyze the performance of the amplification in terms of fidelity and success rate when the input consists of either exact coherent state superpositions or of photon-subtracted squeezed vacua. The impact of imprecise homodyne detection and of impure squeezing is quantified. We also assess the scalability of iterated amplifications.

id: 1302.0290
title: Quantum 3-SAT is QMA1-complete
authors: David Gosset, Daniel Nagaj
comments: 
journal: 2013 IEEE 54TH annual symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS 2013), Pages: 756-765 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0290
abstract: Quantum satisfiability is a constraint satisfaction problem that generalizes classical boolean satisfiability. In the quantum k-SAT problem, each constraint is specified by a k-local projector and is satisfied by any state in its nullspace. Bravyi showed that quantum 2-SAT can be solved efficiently on a classical computer and that quantum k-SAT with k greater than or equal to 4 is QMA1-complete. Quantum 3-SAT was known to be contained in QMA1, but its computational hardness was unknown until now. We prove that quantum 3-SAT is QMA1-hard, and therefore complete for this complexity class.

id: 1302.0366
title: Transfers of entanglement qudit states in quantum networks
authors: Marek Sawerwain, Joanna Wi?niewska
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Computer Science (cs.OH); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0366
abstract: The issue of quantum states' transfer -- in particular, for so-called Perfect State Transfer (PST) -- in the networks represented by the spin chains seems to be one of the major concerns in quantum computing. Especially, in the context of future communication methods that can be used in broadly defined computer science. The chapter presents a definition of Hamiltonian describing the dynamics of quantum data transfer in one-dimensional spin chain, which is able to transfer the state of unknown qudits. The main part of the chapter is the discussion about possibility of entangled states' perfect transfer, in particular, for the generalized Bell states for qudits. One of the sections also contains the results of numerical experiments for the transmission of quantum entangled state in a noisy quantum channel.

id: 1302.0384
title: Experimental Realization of Nonadiabatic Holonomic Quantum Computation
authors: Guanru Feng, Guofu Xu, Guilu Long
comments: 5 pages and 5 figures. New experiments added. Accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Phys Rev Lett 110, 190501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0384
abstract: Due to its geometric nature, holonomic quantum computation is fault-tolerant against certain types of control errors. Although proposed more than a decade ago, the experimental realization of holonomic quantum computation is still an open challenge. In this Letter, we report the first experimental demonstration of nonadiabatic holonomic quantum computation in liquid NMR quantum information processors. Two non-commuting holonomic single-qubit gates, rotations about x-axis and about z-axis, and the two-qubit holonomic control-NOT gate are realized with high fidelity by evolving the work qubits and an ancillary qubit nonadiabatically. The successful realization of these universal elementary gates in nonadiabatic quantum computing demonstrates the experimental feasibility and the fascinating feature of this fast and resilient quantum computing paradigm.

id: 1302.0398
title: Towards efficient decoding of classical-quantum polar codes
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Olivier Landon-Cardinal, Patrick Hayden
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures, submission to the 8th Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication, and Cryptography
journal: 8th Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography (TQC 2013), pages 157-177 (May 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0398
abstract: Known strategies for sending bits at the capacity rate over a general channel with classical input and quantum output (a cq channel) require the decoder to implement impractically complicated collective measurements. Here, we show that a fully collective strategy is not necessary in order to recover all of the information bits. In fact, when coding for a large number N uses of a cq channel W, N I(W_acc) of the bits can be recovered by a non-collective strategy which amounts to coherent quantum processing of the results of product measurements, where I(W_acc) is the accessible information of the channel W. In order to decode the other N (I(W) - I(W_acc)) bits, where I(W) is the Holevo rate, our conclusion is that the receiver should employ collective measurements. We also present two other results: 1) collective Fuchs-Caves measurements (quantum likelihood ratio measurements) can be used at the receiver to achieve the Holevo rate and 2) we give an explicit form of the Helstrom measurements used in small-size polar codes. The main approach used to demonstrate these results is a quantum extension of Arikan's polar codes.

id: 1302.0417
title: Bell tests with random measurements require very high detection efficiencies
authors: Esteban S. G¨®mez, Gustavo Ca?as, Johanna F. Barra, Ad¨¢n Cabello, Gustavo Lima
comments: 5 Pages, 3 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0417
abstract: The observation that violating Bell inequalities with high probability is possible even when the local measurements are randomly chosen, as occurs when local measurements cannot be suitably calibrated or the parties do not share a common reference frame, has recently attracted much theoretical and experimental efforts. Here we show that this observation is only valid when the overall detection efficiency is very high ($\eta \geq 0.90$), otherwise, even when using the highest detection efficiency of recent photonic Bell tests, the probability of demonstrating nonlocality is negligible (e.g., it is smaller than 0.02% for $\eta=0.785$). Our results show that detection efficiency is a much more critical resource for real-world applications than it was previously thought.

id: 1302.0455
title: Weak-Value Amplification of light deflection by a dark atomic ensemble
authors: Lan Zhou, Yusuf Turek, C.P. Sun, F. Nori
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053815 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0455
abstract: We study the coherent propagation of light whose dynamics is governed by the effective Schr\"{o}dinger equation derived in a magneto-optically-manipulated atomic ensemble with a four-level tripod configuration for electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). The small transverse deflection of an optical beam, which is ultra-sensitive to the EIT effect, could be drastically amplified via a weak measurement with an appropriate preselection and postselection of the polarization state. The physical mechanism is explained as the effect of wavepacket reshaping, which results in an enlarged group velocity in the transverse direction.

id: 1302.0456
title: Aharonov-Bohm effect and geometric phases -- Exact and approximate topology
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 6 pages. Invited talk given at Tonomura FIRST International Symposium on Electron Microscopy and Gauge Fields, May 9-10, 2012, Tokyo, Japan
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0456
abstract: By analyzing an exactly solvable model in the second quantized formulation which allows a unified treatment of adiabatic and non-adiabatic geometric phases, it is shown that the topology of the adiabatic Berry's phase, which is characterized by the singularity associated with possible level crossing, is trivial in a precise sense. This topology of the geometric phase is quite different from the topology of the Aharonov-Bohm effect, where the topology is specified by the external local gauge field and it is exact for the slow as well as for the fast motion of the electron.

id: 1302.0462
title: Zero-point fluctuations in rotation: Perpetuum mobile of the fourth kind without energy transfer
authors: M. N. Chernodub
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures; talk given at the workshop "Mathematical Structures in Quantum Systems and applications", 08 - 14 July, 2012, Benasque, Spain
journal: Nuovo Cimento C 36, 53 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0462
abstract: We discuss a simple Casimir-type device for which the rotational energy reaches its global minimum when the device rotates about a certain axis rather than remains static. This unusual property is a direct consequence of the fact that the moment of inertia of zero-point vacuum fluctuations is a negative quantity (the rotational vacuum effect). Moreover, the device does not produce any work despite the fact that its equilibrium ground state corresponds to a permanent rotation. Counterintuitively, the device has no internally moving mechanical parts while its very existence is consistent with the laws of thermodynamics. We point out that such devices may possibly be constructed using carbon nanotubes. We call this "zero-point-driven" device as the perpetuum mobile of the fourth kind.

id: 1302.0557
title: Optomechanical light storage in a silica microresonator
authors: Victor Fiore, Chunhua Dong, Mark C. Kuzyk, Hailin Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0557
abstract: Coherent inter-conversion between an optical and a mechanical excitation in an optomechanical resonator can be used for the storage of an optical pulse as an excitation in a mechanical oscillator. This optomechanical light storage is enabled by external writing and readout pulses at one mechanical frequency below the optical resonance. In this paper, we expand an earlier experimental study [Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 133601 (2011)] on storing an optical pulse as a radial breathing mode in a silica microsphere. We show that the heterodyne beating between a readout pulse and the corresponding retrieved pulse features a periodic oscillation with a well-defined phase and with the beating period given by the mechanical frequency, demonstrating directly the coherent nature of the light storage process. The coherent inter-conversion accelerates with increasing optomechanical coupling rates, providing an effective mechanism for tailoring the temporal profile of the retrieved pulse. Experimental studies on both light storage and optomechanically induced transparency under nearly the same conditions also illustrate the connections between these two closely-related processes.

id: 1302.0579
title: A Universal Quantum Circuit Scheme For Finding Complex Eigenvalues
authors: Anmer Daskin, Ananth Grama, Sabre Kais
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0579
abstract: We present a general quantum circuit design for finding eigenvalues of non-unitary matrices on quantum computers using the iterative phase estimation algorithm. In particular, we show how the method can be used for the simulation of resonance states for quantum systems.

id: 1302.0588
title: Jaynes-Cummings model in a finite Kerr medium
authors: A. Mart¨ªn Ruiz, Alejandro Frank, L. F. Urrutia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0588
abstract: We introduce a spin model which exhibits the main properties of a Kerr medium to describe an intensity dependent coupling between a two-level atom and the radiation fi?eld. We select a unitary irreducible representation of the su(2) Lie algebra such that the number of excitations of the field is bounded from above. We analyze the behavior of both the atomic and the ?field quantum properties and its dependence on the maximal number of excitations.

id: 1302.0600
title: Ascertaining the Uncertainty Relations via Quantum Correlations
authors: Jun-Li Li, Kun Du, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures; published in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 085302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0600
abstract: We propose a new scheme to express the uncertainty principle in form of inequality of the bipartite correlation functions for a given multipartite state, which provides an experimentally feasible and model-independent way to verify various uncertainty and measurement disturbance relations. By virtue of this scheme the implementation of experimental measurement on the measurement disturbance relation to a variety of physical systems becomes practical. The inequality in turn also imposes a constraint on the strength of correlation, i.e. it determines the maximum value of the correlation function for two-body system and a monogamy relation of the bipartite correlation functions for multipartite system.

id: 1302.0609
title: Exponential spreading and singular behavior of quantum dynamics near hyperbolic points
authors: A. Iomin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0609
abstract: Quantum dynamics of a particle in the vicinity of a hyperbolic point is considered. Expectation values of dynamical variables are calculated, and the singular behavior is analyzed. Exponentially fast extension of quantum dynamics is obtained, and conditions for this realization are analyzed.

id: 1302.0617
title: Comment on "State-Independent Experimental Test of Quantum Contextuality in an Indivisible System"
authors: E. Amselem, M. Bourennane, C. Budroni, A. Cabello, O. G¨¹hne, M. Kleinmann, J.-?. Larsson, M. Wie?niak
comments: 1 page, accepted in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 078901 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0617
abstract: We argue that the experiment described in the recent Letter by Zu et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 150401 (2012); arXiv:1207.0059v1] does not allow to make conclusions about contextuality, since the measurement of the observables as well as the preparation of the state manifestly depend on the chosen context.

id: 1302.0619
title: Reply to Comment on "State-independent experimental test of quantum contextuality in an indivisible system"
authors: C. Zu, Y.-X. Wang, D.-L. Deng, X.-Y. Chang, K. Liu, P.-Y. Hou, H.-X. Yang, L.-M. Duan
comments: 1 page, 1 figure, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett. 2013
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 078902 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0619
abstract: This is a reply to the comment from E. Amselem et al. on our paper (Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 150401 (2012), arXiv:1207.0059).

id: 1302.0626
title: Many-to-one remote information concentration for qudits and multipartite entanglement
authors: Xin-Wen Wang, Shi-Qing Tang, Li-Jun Xie, Deng-Yu Zhang, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 11 pages, one figure
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 2014, 14: 0122-0136
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0626
abstract: Telecloning and its reverse process, referred to as remote information concentration(RIC), have attracted considerable interest because of their potential applications in quantum-information processing. We here present a general scheme for RIC in d-level systems (qudits), in which the quantum information initially distributed in many spatially separated qudits can be remotely and deterministically concentrated to a single qudit via an entangled channel without performing any global operations. We show that the entangled channel of RIC can be different types of entangled states, including mixed states as well as pure ones. More interestingly, these mixed states include a bound entangled state which has a similar form to the generalized Smolin state but has different characteristics from it. We also show that there exists a multipartite entangled state which can be used to implement both telecloning and RIC in the two-level system. Our many-to-one RIC protocol could be slightly modified to perform some types of many-to-many RIC tasks.

id: 1302.0665
title: Collective Suppression of Linewidths in Circuit QED
authors: Felix Nissen, Johannes M. Fink, Jonas A. Mlynek, Andreas Wallraff, Jonathan Keeling
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 203602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0665
abstract: We report the experimental observation, and a theoretical explanation, of collective suppression of linewidths for multiple superconducting qubits coupled to a good cavity. This demonstrates how strong qubit-cavity coupling can significantly modify the dephasing and dissipation processes that might be expected for individual qubits, and can potentially improve coherence times in many-body circuit QED.

id: 1302.0667
title: Length of separable states and symmetrical informationally complete (SIC) POVM
authors: Lin Chen
comments: 4 pages. This is based on a talk given in the department of mathematics, Seoul National University, Korea, Feb 4, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0667
abstract: This short note reviews the notion and fundamental properties of SIC-POVM and its connection with the length of separable states. We also review the t-design.

id: 1302.0682
title: Stimulated adiabatic passage in a dissipative Rydberg superatom
authors: David Petrosyan, Klaus Molmer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 033416 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0682
abstract: We study two-photon excitation of Rydberg states of atoms under stimulated adiabatic passage with delayed laser pulses. We find that the combination of strong interaction between the atoms in Rydberg state and the spontaneous decay of the intermediate exited atomic state leads to the Rydberg excitation of precisely one atom within the atomic ensemble. The quantum Zeno effect offers a lucid interpretation of this result: the Rydberg blocked atoms repetitively scattering photons effectively monitor a randomly excited atom which therefore remains in the Rydberg state. This system can be used for deterministic creation and, possibly, extraction of Rydberg atoms or ions one at a time. The sympathetic monitoring via decay of ancilla particles may find wider applications for state preparation and probing of interactions in dissipative many-body systems.

id: 1302.0711
title: Symmetry-based estimation of lower bound on secure key rate of noisy private states
authors: Jan Tuziemski, Pawe? Horodecki
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0711
abstract: Quantum private states are the states that represent some amount of perfect secure key. A simple symmetry of any generalised private quantum state (ie. the states that represent perfect key but not fully random) is provided and extended on Devetak-Winter so called ccq (classical-classical-quantum) and cqq (classical-quantum-quantum) lower bound on secure key. This symmetry is used to develop a practical method of estimating the Alice measurement that is optimal form the perspective of single shot Devetak-Witner lower bound on secure key. The method is particularly good when the noise does not break the symmetry of the state with respect to the lower bound formula. It suggest a general paradigm for quick estimation of quantum communication rates under the symmetry of a given resource like state and/or channel.

id: 1302.0754
title: An exact mapping between the states of arbitrary N-level quantum systems and the positions of classical coupled oscillators
authors: Thomas E. Skinner
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure; added illustrative examples, discussed and clarified implications, corrected typo in figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012110 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0754
abstract: The dynamics of states representing arbitrary N-level quantum systems, including dissipative systems, can be modelled exactly by the dynamics of classical coupled oscillators. There is a direct one-to-one correspondence between the quantum states and the positions of the oscillators. Quantum coherence, expectation values, and measurement probabilities for system observables can therefore be realized from the corresponding classical states. The time evolution of an N-level system is represented as the rotation of a real state vector in hyperspace, as previously known for density matrix states but generalized here to Schrodinger states. A single rotor in n dimensions is then mapped directly to n oscillators in one physical dimension. The number of oscillators needed to represent N-level systems scales linearly with N for Schrodinger states, in contrast to N^2 for the density matrix formalism. Although the well-known equivalence (SU(2), SO(3) homomorphism) of 2-level quantum dynamics to a rotation in real, physical space cannot be generalized to arbitrary N-level systems, representing quantum dynamics by a system of coupled harmonic oscillators in one physical dimension is general for any N. Values for the classical coupling constants are readily obtained from the system Hamiltonian, allowing construction of classical mechanical systems that can provide visual insight into the dynamics of abstract quantum systems as well as a metric for characterizing the interface between quantum and classical mechanics.

id: 1302.0860
title: Incompatibility of the tunneling limit with laser fields
authors: H. R. Reiss
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0860
abstract: The Schwinger limit refers to longitudinal electric fields that are sufficiently strong to "polarize the vacuum" into electron-positron pairs by a tunneling mechanism. Laser fields are transverse electromagnetic fields for which the Schwinger limit has no relevance. Longitudinal and transverse fields are fundamentally different because of the different values of the F^{{\mu}{\nu}}F_{{\mu}{\nu}} Lorentz invariant that characterizes the fields. One aspect of this difference is the zero-frequency limit, that exists for longitudinal fields, but is ill-defined for transverse fields. The goal of approaching the Schwinger limit with sufficiently strong lasers is thus not a possibility. Tunneling transition rates are characterized by an exponential behavior of the form exp(-C/E), where E is the magnitude of the applied electric field and C is a system-dependent constant. Searches for such behavior within a Coulomb-gauge treatment of laser-induced processes are shown to fail.

id: 1302.0867
title: Quantum-enhanced micro-mechanical displacement sensitivity
authors: Ulrich B. Hoff, Glen I. Harris, Lars S. Madsen, Hugo Kerdoncuff, Mikael Lassen, Bo M. Nielsen, Warwick P. Bowen, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0867
abstract: We report on a hitherto unexplored application of squeezed light: for quantum-enhancement of mechanical transduction sensitivity in microcavity optomechanics. Using a toroidal silica microcavity, we experimentally demonstrate measurement of the transduced phase modulation signal with a sensitivity $-0.72(\pm 0.01)$\,dB below the shot noise level. This is achieved for resonant probing in the highly under-coupled regime, by preparing the probe in a weak coherent state with phase squeezed vacuum states at sideband frequencies.

id: 1302.0882
title: Measurement of a qubit and measurement with a qubit
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure, 1 table. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0882
abstract: Generally, the measurement process consists in coupling a system to a detector that can give a continuous output. However, it may be interesting to use as a detector a system with a discrete spectrum, especially in view of applications to quantum information. Here, we study 1) a two-level system measuring another two-level system (qubit); 2) a generic system measuring a qubit; 3) a qubit measuring a generic system. The results include the case when a postselection on the measured system is made. We provide the exact solution, and also a controlled expansion in the coupling parameter, giving formulas valid in the weak measurement regime for arbitrary preparation and postselection. The concept of generalized Wigner functions is introduced.

id: 1302.0916
title: Quantum Discord, CHSH Inequality and Hidden Variables -- Critical reassessment of hidden-variables models
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 19 pages. Invited talk given at Asia Pacific Conference and Workshop in Quantum Information Science 2012, 3-7 December 2012, Pullman Putrajaya Lakeside, Malaysia (to be published)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0916
abstract: Hidden-variables models are critically reassessed. It is first examined if the quantum discord is classically described by the hidden-variable model of Bell in the Hilbert space with $d=2$. The criterion of vanishing quantum discord is related to the notion of reduction and, surprisingly, the hidden-variable model in $d=2$, which has been believed to be consistent so far, is in fact inconsistent and excluded by the analysis of conditional measurement and reduction. The description of the full contents of quantum discord by the deterministic hidden-variables models is not possible. We also re-examine CHSH inequality. It is shown that the well-known prediction of CHSH inequality $|B|\leq 2$ for the CHSH operator $B$ introduced by Cirel'son is not unique. This non-uniqueness arises from the failure of linearity condition in the non-contextual hidden-variables model in $d=4$ used by Bell and CHSH, in agreement with Gleason's theorem which excludes $d=4$ non-contextual hidden-variables models. If one imposes the linearity condition, their model is converted to a factored product of two $d=2$ models which describes quantum mechanical separable states. The CHSH inequality thus does not test the hidden-variables model in $d=4$. This observation is consistent with an application of the CHSH inequality to quantum cryptography by Ekert, which is based on mixed separable states without referring to dispersion-free representations. As for hidden-variables models, there exist no viable local non-contextual models in any dimensions.

id: 1302.0920
title: Deriving the static interaction between electric dipoles via the quantum gauge transformation
authors: Makoto Morinaga
comments: 5 pages; An appendix is added referring to the Coulomb potential
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0920
abstract: Gauge transformation leaves the electric and the magnetic fields unchanged as long as the gauge function is treated classically. In this paper we consider the gauge transformation commonly used to obtain the electric dipole interaction Hamiltonian in a system of dipoles and the electromagnetic field (Goeppert-Mayer transformation) and treat the vector potential that appear in the gauge function as an operator. While it modifies the electric field, the static interaction between the dipoles is derived.

id: 1302.0932
title: When quantum tomography goes wrong: drift of quantum sources and other errors
authors: S.J. van Enk, Robin Blume-Kohout
comments: To appear in New Journal of Physics, Focus on Quantum Tomography. Two more references added
journal: New J. Phys. 15 025024 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0932
abstract: The principle behind quantum tomography is that a large set of observations -- many samples from a "quorum" of distinct observables -- can all be explained satisfactorily as measurements on a single underlying quantum state or process. Unfortunately, this principle may not hold. When it fails, any standard tomographic estimate should be viewed skeptically. Here we propose a simple way to test for this kind of failure using Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC). We point out that the application of this criterion in a quantum context, while still powerful, is not as straightforward as it is in classical physics. This is especially the case when future observables differ from those constituting the quorum.

id: 1302.0934
title: Quantum Process Nonclassicality
authors: Saleh Rahimi-Keshari, Thomas Kiesel, Werner Vogel, Samuele Grandi, Alessandro Zavatta, Marco Bellini
comments: 5+2 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 160401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0934
abstract: We propose a definition of nonclassicality for a single-mode quantum-optical process based on its action on coherent states. If a quantum process transforms a coherent state to a nonclassical state, it is verified to be nonclassical. To identify nonclassical processes, we introduce a representation for quantum processes, called the process-nonclassicality quasiprobability distribution, whose negativities indicate nonclassicality of the process. Using this distribution, we derive a relation for predicting nonclassicality of the output states for a given input state. We experimentally demonstrate our method by considering the single-photon addition as a nonclassical process, and predicting nonclassicality of the output state for an input thermal state.

id: 1302.0957
title: Cooperative spontaneous emission of three identical atoms
authors: Wei Feng, Yong Li, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 21pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033856 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0957
abstract: We study the influence of the distribution of atoms on the cooperative spontaneous emission by a simple model of three identical atoms. The effects of counter rotating terms are included by a unitary transformation method. By discussing two special cases that the three atoms are arranged as an equilateral triangle and in a straight line, we find that the superradiance of the coherent system largely dependent on the homogeneity of the atoms' distribution. If the atoms distribute symmetrically, the superradiant emission will be enhanced. Next, we calculate the emission spectra of three identical atoms under the single-photon state. We find that the distribution of atoms also has a great impact on the lamb shift and the spectrum. If three atoms are placed into an equilateral triangle and the same dipole moment is perpendicular to the plane of the three atoms, the spectrum will degenerate into two peaks from the three peaks for general case.

id: 1302.0980
title: Tunneling decay of two interacting bosons in an asymmetric double-well potential: A spectral approach
authors: Stefan Hunn, Klaus Zimmermann, Moritz Hiller, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: Minor textual changes and amended bibliography
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043626 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0980
abstract: We study the full-fledged microscopic dynamics of two interacting, ultracold bosons in a one- dimensional double-well potential, through the numerically exact diagonalization of the many-body Hamiltonian. With the particles initially prepared in the left well, we increase the width of the right well in subsequent trap realizations and witness how the tunneling oscillations evolve into particle loss. In this closed system, we analyze the spectral signatures of single- and two-particle tunneling for the entire range of repulsive interactions. We conclude that for comparable widths of the two wells, pair-wise tunneling of the bosons may be realized for specific system parameters. In contrast, the decay process (corresponding to a broad right well) is dominated by uncorrelated single-particle decay.

id: 1302.1011
title: A universal, memory-assisted entropic uncertainty relation
authors: Z.-H. Ma, C.-M. Yao, Z.-H. Chen, S. Severini, A. Serafini
comments: 24 pages and a few plots, IOP style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1011
abstract: We derive a new memory-assisted entropic uncertainty relation for non-degenerate Hermitian observables where both quantum correlations, in the form of conditional von Neumann entropy, and quantum discord between system and memory play an explicit role. Our relation is `universal', in the sense that it does not depend on the specific observable, but only on properties of the quantum state. We contrast such an uncertainty relation with previously known memory-assisted relations based on entanglement and correlations. Further, we present a detailed comparative study of entanglement- and discord-assisted entropic uncertainty relations for systems of two qubits -- one of which plays the role of the memory -- subject to several forms of independent quantum noise, in both Markovian and non-Markovian regimes. We thus show explicitly that, partly due to the ubiquity and inherent resilience of quantum discord, discord-tightened entropic uncertainty relations often offer a better estimate of the uncertainties in play.

id: 1302.1030
title: Tunneling through a parabolic barrier viewed from Wigner phase space
authors: D. M. Heim, W. P. Schleich, P. M. Alsing, J. P. Dahl, S. Varro
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377 (2013) 1822
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1030
abstract: We analyze the tunneling of a particle through a repulsive potential resulting from an inverted harmonic oscillator in the quantum mechanical phase space described by the Wigner function. In particular, we solve the partial differential equations in phase space determining the Wigner function of an energy eigenstate of the inverted oscillator. The reflection or transmission coefficients $R$ or $T$ are then given by the total weight of all classical phase space trajectories corresponding to energies below, or above the top of the barrier given by the Wigner function.

id: 1302.1035
title: Leveraging Automorphisms of Quantum Codes for Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation
authors: Markus Grassl, Martin Roetteler
comments: 
journal: Proceedings 2013 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2013), Istanbul, Turkey, pp. 534-538
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1035
abstract: Fault-tolerant quantum computation is a technique that is necessary to build a scalable quantum computer from noisy physical building blocks. Key for the implementation of fault-tolerant computations is the ability to perform a universal set of quantum gates that act on the code space of an underlying quantum code. To implement such a universal gate set fault-tolerantly is an expensive task in terms of physical operations, and any possible shortcut to save operations is potentially beneficial and might lead to a reduction in overhead for fault-tolerant computations. We show how the automorphism group of a quantum code can be used to implement some operators on the encoded quantum states in a fault-tolerant way by merely permuting the physical qubits. We derive conditions that a code has to satisfy in order to have a large group of operations that can be implemented transversally when combining transversal CNOT with automorphisms. We give several examples for quantum codes with large groups, including codes with parameters [[8,3,3]], [[15,7,3]], [[22,8,4]], and [[31,11,5]].

id: 1302.1040
title: Wigner dynamics of quantum semi-relativistic oscillator
authors: A.S.Larkin, V.S.Filinov
comments: 10 pages, 26 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:hep-th/0110114, arXiv:hep-ph/0501268, arXiv:math-ph/0702082 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1040
abstract: The integral Wigner - Liouwille equation describing time evolution of the semi-relativistic quantum 1D harmonic oscillator have been exactly solved by combination of the Monte-Carlo procedure and molecular dynamics methods. The strong influence of the relativistic effects on the time evolution of the momentum, velocity and coordinate Wigner distribution functions and the average values of quantum operators have been studied. Unexpected 'protuberances' in time evolution of the distribution functions were observed. Relativistic proper time dilation for oscillator have been calculated.

id: 1302.1049
title: On separable decompositions of quantum states with strong positive partial transposes
authors: Bogna Bylicka, Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Jacek Jurkowski
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 205303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1049
abstract: We analyze a class of positive partial transpose states (PPT) such that the positivity of its partial transposition is recognized with respect to canonical factorization of the original density operator (Cholesky block decomposition). We call such PPT states strong PPT states (SPPT). This property, contrary to PPT, is basis dependent. It is shown that there exists a proper subset of SPPT states which are separable and provide a separable decomposition for any of these states.

id: 1302.1085
title: Matrix of integrated superconducting single-photon detectors with high timing resolution
authors: Carsten Schuck, Wolfram H. P. Pernice, Olga Minaeva, Mo Li, Gregory Gol'tsman, Alexander V. Sergienko, Hong X. Tang
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1085
abstract: We demonstrate a large grid of individually addressable superconducting single photon detectors on a single chip. Each detector element is fully integrated into an independent waveguide circuit with custom functionality at telecom wavelengths. High device density is achieved by fabricating the nanowire detectors in traveling wave geometry directly on top of silicon-on-insulator waveguides. Our superconducting single-photon detector matrix includes detector designs optimized for high detection efficiency, low dark count rate and high timing accuracy. As an example, we exploit the high timing resolution of a particularly short nanowire design to resolve individual photon round-trips in a cavity ring-down measurement of a silicon ring resonator.

id: 1302.1115
title: Quantum Metrology in Open Systems: Dissipative Cram¨¦r-Rao Bound
authors: S. Alipour, M. Mehboudi, A. T. Rezakhani
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Supplemental Material (10 pages); close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 120405 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1115
abstract: Estimation of parameters is a pivotal task throughout science and technology. Quantum Cram\'{e}r-Rao bound provides a fundamental limit of precision allowed to achieve under quantum theory. For closed quantum systems, it has been shown how the estimation precision depends on the underlying dynamics. Here, we propose a general formulation for metrology scenarios in open quantum systems, aiming to relate the precision more directly to properties of the underlying dynamics. This feature may be employed to enhance an estimation precision, e.g., by quantum control techniques. Specifically, we derive a Cram\'{e}r-Rao bound for a fairly large class of open system dynamics, which is governed by a (time-dependent) dynamical semi-group map. We illustrate the utility of this scenario through three examples.

id: 1302.1179
title: Multipartite monogamy of the concurrence
authors: Marcio F. Cornelio
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1179
abstract: Monogamy of entanglement is generally discussed using a bipartite entanglement measure as an upper bound. Here we discuss a new kind of monogamous relation where the upper bound is given by a multipartite measure of entanglement, the generalized concurrence. We show a new monogamous equality involving the multipartite concurrence, all the bipartite concurrences and the genuine tripartite entanglement for pure three qubits system. The result extends to mixed states in an inequality involving the generalized concurrence and all the bipartite concurrences. We provide a counter-example showing that the result cannot be extended for systems with more than three qubits.

id: 1302.1182
title: Reliable Entanglement Verification
authors: Juan Miguel Arrazola, Oleg Gittsovich, John Matthew Donohue, Jonathan Lavoie, Kevin J. Resch, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062331, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1182
abstract: Any experiment attempting to verify the presence of entanglement in a physical system can only generate a finite amount of data. The statement that entanglement was present in the system can thus never be issued with certainty, requiring instead a statistical analysis of the data. Because entanglement plays a central role in the performance of quantum devices, it is crucial to make statistical claims in entanglement verification experiments that are reliable and have a clear interpretation. In this work, we apply recent results by M. Christandl and R. Renner to construct a reliable entanglement verification procedure based on the concept of confidence regions. The statements made do not require the specification of a prior distribution, the assumption of independent measurements nor the assumption of an independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) source of states. Moreover, we develop numerical tools that are necessary to employ this approach in practice, rendering the procedure ready to be applied to current experiments. We demonstrate this technique by analyzing the data of a photonic experiment generating two-photon states whose entanglement is verified with the use of an accessible nonlinear witness.

id: 1302.1205
title: Surface Entanglement in Quantum Spin Networks
authors: S. Zippilli, S. M. Giampaolo, F. Illuminati
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1205
abstract: We study the ground-state entanglement in systems of spins forming the boundary of a quantum spin network in arbitrary geometries and dimensionality. We show that as long as they are weakly coupled to the bulk of the network, the surface spins are strongly entangled, even when distant and non directly interacting, thereby generalizing the phenomenon of long-distance entanglement occurring in quantum spin chains. Depending on the structure of the couplings between surface and bulk spins, we discuss in detail how the patterns of surface entanglement can range from multi-pair bipartite to fully multipartite. In the context of quantum information and communication, these results find immediate application to the implementation of quantum routers, that is devices able to distribute quantum correlations on demand among multiple network nodes.

id: 1302.1210
title: Solving systems of linear equations on a quantum computer
authors: Stefanie Barz, Ivan Kassal, Martin Ringbauer, Yannick Ole Lipp, Borivoje Dakic, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik, Philip Walther
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 4,115 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1210
abstract: Systems of linear equations are used to model a wide array of problems in all fields of science and engineering. Recently, it has been shown that quantum computers could solve linear systems exponentially faster than classical computers, making for one of the most promising applications of quantum computation. Here, we demonstrate this quantum algorithm by implementing various instances on a photonic quantum computing architecture. Our implementation involves the application of two consecutive entangling gates on the same pair of polarisation-encoded qubits. We realize two separate controlled-NOT gates where the successful operation of the first gate is heralded by a measurement of two ancillary photons. Our work thus demonstrates the implementation of a quantum algorithm with high practical significance as well as an important technological advance which brings us closer to a comprehensive control of photonic quantum information.

id: 1302.1212
title: Limitations of gauge invariance
authors: H. R. Reiss
comments: One citation has been added, along with a reference to it at the end of the text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1212
abstract: Although gauge invariance preserves the values of physical observables, a gauge transformation can introduce important alterations of physical interpretations. To understand this, it is first shown that a gauge transformation is not, in general, a unitary transformation. Also, physical interpretations are based on both kinetic energy and potential energy expressions. While the kinetic energy is a measurable quantity, and hence gauge-invariant, the potential energy is gauge-dependent. Two basic examples are examined; one classical and the other quantum-mechanical. The aim is to show that the use of the Coulomb (or radiation) gauge is always consistent with the way that fields are generated in the laboratory. Upon transformation out of the Coulomb gauge, this connection is lost, and physical interpretations can give rise to misleading inferences.

id: 1302.1221
title: Measuring nonclassical correlations of two-photon states
authors: Karol Bartkiewicz, Karel Lemr, Anton¨ªn ?ernoch, Jan Soubusta
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, additional figures and explanations added, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1221
abstract: The threshold between classical and nonclassical two-qubit states is drawn at the place when these states can no longer be described by classical correlations, i.e., quantum discord or entanglement appear. However, to check if the correlations are classical (in terms of quantum discord and entanglement) it is sufficient to witness the lack of quantum discord because its zero value implies the lack of entanglement. We explain how the indicator of quantum discord introduced by Girolami and Adesso [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 150403 (2012)] can be practically measured in linear-optical systems using standard beam splitters and photon detectors. We study the efficiency of the setup assuming both ideal and real components and show that the efficiency of the proposed implementation is better than the full two-photon quantum tomography. Thus, we demonstrate that a class of experiments previously available on NMR platform can be implemented in optical systems.

id: 1302.1235
title: Exact quantum query complexity of EXACT and THRESHOLD
authors: Andris Ambainis, J¨¡nis Iraids, Juris Smotrovs
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1235
abstract: A quantum algorithm is exact if it always produces the correct answer, on any input. Coming up with exact quantum algorithms that substantially outperform the best classical algorithm has been a quite challenging task. In this paper, we present two new exact quantum algorithms for natural problems: 1) for the problem EXACT_k^n in which we have to determine whether the sequence of input bits x_1, ..., x_n contains exactly k values x_i=1; 2) for the problem THRESHOLD_k^n in which we have to determine if at least k of n input bits are equal to 1.

id: 1302.1242
title: Three-player entangled XOR games are NP-hard to approximate
authors: Thomas Vidick
comments: 52 pages; comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1242
abstract: We show that for any eps>0 the problem of finding a factor (2-eps) approximation to the entangled value of a three-player XOR game is NP-hard. Equivalently, the problem of approximating the largest possible quantum violation of a tripartite Bell correlation inequality to within any multiplicative constant is NP-hard. These results are the first constant-factor hardness of approximation results for entangled games or quantum violations of Bell inequalities shown under the sole assumption that P \neq NP. They can be thought of as an extension of Hastad's optimal hardness of approximation results for MAX-E3-LIN2 (JACM'01) to the entangled-player setting. The key technical component of our work is a soundness analysis of a point-vs-plane low-degree test against entangled players. This extends and simplifies the analysis of the multilinearity test by Ito and Vidick (FOCS'12). Our results demonstrate the possibility for efficient reductions between entangled-player games and our techniques may lead to further hardness of approximation results.

id: 1302.1282
title: Quantum dynamics of two-optical modes and a single mechanical mode optomechanical system: selective energy exchange
authors: Neha Aggarwal, Aranya B Bhattacherjee
comments: 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1282
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of an optomechanical setup comprising two optical modes and one mechanical mode. We show that the same system can undergo a Dicke-Hepp-Lieb superradiant type phase transition. We found that the coupling between the momentum quadratures of the two optical fields give rise to a new critical point. We show that selective energy exchange between any two modes is possible by coherent control of the coupling parameters. In addition we also demonstrate the occurrence of Normal Mode Splitting (NMS) in the mechanical displacement spectrum.

id: 1302.1330
title: Stochastic evolution of finite level systems: classical vs. quantum
authors: D. Chru?ci¨½ski, V.I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, F. Ventriglia
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Scr. 87, 045015 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1330
abstract: Quantum dynamics of the density operator in the framework of a single probability vector is analyzed. In this framework quantum states define a proper convex quantum subset in an appropriate simplex. It is showed that the corresponding dynamical map preserving a quantum subset needs not be stochastic contrary to the classical evolution which preserves the entire simplex. Therefore, violation of stochasticity witnesses quantumness of evolution.

id: 1302.1336
title: Device-independent entanglement quantification and related applications
authors: Tobias Moroder, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Yeong-Cherng Liang, Martin Hofmann, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 4 pages + appendix, resubmitted version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 030501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1336
abstract: We present a general method to quantify both bipartite and multipartite entanglement in a device-independent manner, meaning that we put a lower bound on the amount of entanglement present in a system based on observed data only but independently of any quantum description of the employed devices. Some of the bounds we obtain, such as for the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt Bell inequality or the Svetlichny inequality, are shown to be tight. Besides, device-independent entanglement quantification can serve as a basis for numerous tasks. We show in particular that our method provides a rigorous way to construct dimension witnesses, gives new insights into the question whether bound entangled states can violate a Bell inequality, and can be used to construct device independent entanglement witnesses involving an arbitrary number of parties.

id: 1302.1359
title: High Fidelity Teleportation of Continuous Variable Quantum States using Delocalized Single Photons
authors: U.L. Andersen, T.C. Ralph
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 050504 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1359
abstract: Traditional continuous variable teleportation can only approach unit fidelity in the limit of an infinite (and unphysical) amount of squeezing. We describe a new method for continuous variable teleportation that approaches unit fidelity with finite resources. The protocol is not based on squeezed states as in traditional teleportation but on an ensemble of single photon entangled states. We characterize the teleportation scheme with coherent states, Schrodinger cat states and two-mode squeezed state and we find several situations in which near-unity teleportation fidelity can be obtained with modest resources.

id: 1302.1394
title: The time-asymmetric quantum state exchange mechanism
authors: Ido Gilary, Alexei A. Mailybaev, Nimrod Moiseyev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1394
abstract: We show here that due to non-adiabatic couplings in decaying systems applying the same time-dependent protocol in the forward and reverse direction to the same mixed initial state leads to different final pure states. In particular, in laser driven molecular systems applying a specifically chosen positively chirped laser pulse or an equivalent negatively chirped laser pulse yields entirely different final vibrational states. This phenomenon occurs when the laser frequency and intensity are slowly varied around an exceptional point (EP) in the laser intensity and frequency parameter space where the non-hermitian spectrum of the problem is degenerate. The protocol implies that a positively chirped laser pulse traces a counter-clockwise loop in time in the laser parameters' space whereas a negatively chirped pulse follows the same loop in the clockwise direction. According to this protocol one can choose the final pure state from any initial state. The obtained results imply the intrinsic non-adiabaticity of quantum transport around an EP, and offer a way to observe the EP experimentally in time-dependent quantum systems.

id: 1302.1430
title: Time-evolution of tripartite quantum discord and entanglement under local and non-local random telegraph noise
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042310 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1430
abstract: Few studies explored the dynamics of non-classical correlations besides entanglement in open multipartite quantum systems. Here, we address the time-evolution of quantum discord and entanglement in a model of three non-interacting qubits subject to a classical random telegraph noise in common and separated environments. Two initial entangled states of the system are examined, namely the GHZ- and W-type states. The dynamics of quantum correlations results to be strongly affected by the input configuration of the qubits, the type of the system-environment interaction, and the memory properties of the environmental noise. When the qubits are non-locally coupled to the random telegraph noise, the GHZ-type states partially preserve, at long times, both discord and entanglement, regardless the correlation time of the environmental noise. The survived entangled states turn out to be also detectable by means of suitable entanglement witnesses. On the other hand, in the same conditions, the decohering effects suppress all the quantum correlation of the W-type states which are thus less robust than the GHZ-type ones. The long-time survival of tripartite discord and entanglement opens interesting perspectives in the use of multipartite entangled states for practical applications in quantum information science.

id: 1302.1478
title: Levy flights and nonlocal quantum dynamics
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski, Vladimir Stephanovich
comments: 32 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54 (7), 072103, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1478
abstract: We develop a fully fledged theory of quantum dynamical patterns of behavior that are nonlocally induced. To this end we generalize the standard Laplacian-based framework of the Schr\"{o}dinger picture quantum evolution to that employing nonlocal (pseudodifferential) operators. Special attention is paid to the Salpeter (here, $m\geq 0$) quasirelativistic equation and the evolution of various wave packets, in particular to their radial expansion in 3D. Foldy's synthesis of "covariant particle equations" is extended to encompass free Maxwell theory, which however is devoid of any "particle" content. Links with the photon wave mechanics are explored.

id: 1302.1483
title: A broad-band laser-driven double Fano system - photoelectron spectra
authors: K. Doan Quoc, V. Cao Long, W. Leonski
comments: 
journal: Physica Scripta 86 (2012) 045301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1483
abstract: Fano profiles, with their asymmetric character, have many potential applications in technology. The design of Fano profiles into optical systems may create new nonlinear and switchable metamaterials, high-quality optical waveguides, ultrasensitive media for chemical or biosensing etc. In this paper, we consider an external field-driven double Fano model, in which, instead of one autoionizing state, there are two discrete states embedded in one continuum. We assume further that the external electromagnetic field can be decomposed into two parts: a deterministic (or coherent) part and a randomly fluctuating chaotic component, which is a \delta-correlated, Gaussian, Markov and stationary process (white noise). This assumption corresponds to the case of the real multimode laser operating without any correlation between the modes. We solve a set of coupled stochastic integro-differential equations involving the Fano model with two discrete levels. We derive an exact formula by determining the photoelectron spectrum and compare it with the results obtained in our previous papers.

id: 1302.1602
title: Noise assisted transport in the Wannier-Stark system
authors: Stephan Burkhardt, Matthias Kraft, Riccardo Mannella, Sandro Wimberger
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15 045008 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1602
abstract: We investigated how the presence of an additional lattice potential, driven by a harmonic noise process, changes the transition rate from the ground band to the first excited band in a Wannier-Stark system. Alongside numerical simulations, we present two models that capture the essential features of the dynamics. The first model uses a noise-driven Landau-Zener approximation and describes the short time evolution of the full system very well. The second model assumes that the noise process' correlation time is much larger than the internal timescale of the system, yet it allows for good estimates of the observed transition rates and gives a simple interpretation of the dynamics. One of the central results is that we obtain a way to control the interband transitions with the help of the second lattice. This could readily be realized in state-of-the-art experiments using either Bose-Einstein condensates or optical pulses in engineered potentials.

id: 1302.1604
title: The Minimum Size of Qubit Unextendible Product Bases
authors: Nathaniel Johnston
comments: 13 pages, 13 figures
journal: Proceedings of the 8th Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography (TQC 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1604
abstract: We investigate the problem of constructing unextendible product bases in the qubit case - that is, when each local dimension equals 2. The cardinality of the smallest unextendible product basis is known in all qubit cases except when the number of parties is a multiple of 4 greater than 4 itself. We construct small unextendible product bases in all of the remaining open cases, and we use graph theory techniques to produce a computer-assisted proof that our constructions are indeed the smallest possible.

id: 1302.1624
title: Gaussian Quantum Reading beyond the Standard Quantum Limit
authors: Michele Dall'Arno
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1624
abstract: Quantum reading aims at retrieving classical information stored in an optical memory with low energy and high accuracy by exploiting the inherently quantum properties of light. We provide an optimal Gaussian strategy for quantum reading with phase-shift keying encoding that makes use of squeezed coherent light and homodyne detectors to largely outperform the Standard Quantum Limit, even in the presence of loss. This strategy, being feasible with current quantum optical technology, represents a viable prototype for a highly efficient and reliable quantum-enhanced optical reader.

id: 1302.1628
title: Hydrogen atom as a quantum-classical hybrid system
authors: Fei Zhan, Biao Wu
comments: 8 pages, 6th International Workshop DICE2012
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 442 (2013) 012006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1628
abstract: Hydrogen atom is studied as a quantum-classical hybrid system, where the proton is treated as a classical object while the electron is regarded as a quantum object. We use a well known mean-field approach to describe this hybrid hydrogen atom; the resulting dynamics for the electron and the proton is compared to their full quantum dynamics. The electron dynamics in the hybrid description is found to be only marginally different from its full quantum counterpart. The situation is very different for the proton: in the hybrid description, the proton behaves like a free particle; in the fully quantum description, the wave packet center of the proton orbits around the center of mass. Furthermore, we find that the failure to describe the proton dynamics properly can be regarded as a manifestation of the fact that there is no conservation of momentum in the mean-field hybrid approach. We expect that such a failure is a common feature for all existing approaches for quantum-classical hybrid systems of Born-Oppenheimer type.

id: 1302.1635
title: Comment on "Is a system's wave function in one-to-one correspondence with its elements of reality?" [arXiv:1111.6597]
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Raffaele Romano
comments: 1 page, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1635
abstract: Recently, it has been argued [arXiv:1111.6597, arXiv:1005.5173] that different quantum states do necessarily correspond to different elements of reality, under the assumption that quantum mechanics is correct and that measurement settings can be freely chosen. Here, we prove that additional assumptions are necessary to derive this results, which then has not general validity.

id: 1302.1653
title: Scheme for a spin-based quantum computer employing induction detection and imaging
authors: Aharon Blank
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1653
abstract: A theoretical spin-based scheme for performing a variety of quantum computations is presented. It makes use of an array of multiple identical computer vectors of phosphorus-doped silicon where the nuclei serve as logical qubits and the electrons as working qubits. The spins are addressed by a combination of electron spin resonance and nuclear magnetic resonance techniques operating at a field of ~3.3 T and cryogenic temperatures with an ultra-sensitive surface microresonator. Spin initialization is invoked by a combination of strong pre-polarization fields and laser pulses, which shortens the electrons' T1. The set of universal quantum gates for this system includes an arbitrary rotation of single qubits and c-NOT operation in two qubits. The efficient parallel readout of all the spins in the system is performed by high sensitivity induction detection of the electron spin resonance signals with one-dimensional imaging. Details of the suggested scheme are provided, which show that it is scalable to a few hundreds of qubits.

id: 1302.1662
title: A generalized family of discrete PT-symmetric square wells
authors: Miloslav Znojil, Junde Wu
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 52 (2013) 2152 - 2162
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1662
abstract: N-site-lattice Hamiltonians H are introduced and perceived as a set of systematic discrete approximants of a certain PT-symmetric square-well-potential model with the real spectrum and with a non-Hermiticity which is localized near the boundaries of the interval. Its strength is controlled by one, two or three parameters. The problem of the explicit construction of a nontrivial metric which makes the theory unitary is then addressed. It is proposed and demonstrated that due to the not too complicated tridiagonal-matrix form of our input Hamiltonians the computation of the metric is straightforward and that its matrix elements prove obtainable, non-numerically, in elementary polynomial forms.

id: 1302.1682
title: Dynamics of the sub-Ohmic spin-boson model: a time-dependent variational study
authors: Ning Wu, Liwei Duan, Xin Li, Yang Zhao
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1682
abstract: The Dirac-Frenkel time-dependent variation is employed to probe the dynamics of the zero temperature sub-Ohmic spin-boson model with strong friction utilizing the Davydov D1 ansatz. It is shown that initial conditions of the phonon bath have considerable influence on the dynamics. Counterintuitively, even in the very strong coupling regime, quantum coherence features still manage to survive under the polarized bath initial condition, while such features are absent under the factorized bath initial condition. In addition, a coherent-incoherent transition is found at a critical coupling strength alpha ~ 0.1 for s=0.25 under the factorized bath initial condition. We quantify how faithfully our ansatz follows the Schr\"{o}dinger equation, finding that the time-dependent variational approach is robust for strong dissipation and deep sub-Ohmic baths (s<<1).

id: 1302.1701
title: Blind post-processing for the unbalanced BB84
authors: Satoshi Sunohara, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 6 pages, two-column format, 5 figures, layout corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1701
abstract: For the realization of quantum key distribution, it is important to investigate its security based on a mathematical model that captures properties of the actual devices used by the legitimate users. Recently, Ferenczi, et. al. (Phys. Rev. A 86 042327 (2012)) pointed out potential influences that the losses in phase modulators and/or the unbalance in the transmission rate of beam splitters may have on the security of the phase-encoded BB84 and analyzed the security of this scheme, which is called the unbalanced BB84. In this paper, we ask whether blindly applying the post-processing of the balanced BB84 to the unbalanced BB84 would lead to an insecure key or not, and we conclude that we can safely distill a secure key even with this post-processing. It follows from our proof that as long as the unbalances are basis-independent, our conclusion holds even if the unbalances are unknown and fluctuate in time.

id: 1302.1750
title: A quantum approach to the uniqueness of Reality
authors: Roland Omnes
comments: Contribution to the meeting of the International Academy of Science in Urbino (Italy), September 2012, on "Turing's Legacy"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1750
abstract: A brief review is given of the present state of an approach to consistency between basic quantum mechanics and a unique macroscopic reality, with no assumption of branching in the state of the universe. The main new idea consists in the recognition of local properties in the growth and transport of entanglement between a macroscopic measuring quantum system and a microscopic measured one. Moving waves of entanglement from the environment arise then and carry external phases, affecting significantly the state of the measuring device. These "predecoherence" waves perturb randomly the growth of other waves, which carry entanglement with the measured system. The outcome of these wave interactions could generate random fluctuations in the quantum probabilities of different measurement channels, which could lead in turn to a collapse mechanism satisfying Born's probability rule, according to earlier works by Nelson and Pearle. A necessary randomness in the environment remains however unexplained and some suggestions regarding algorithmic complexity of the wave functions in a large quantum system e are made along that direction.

id: 1302.1783
title: Quantum Channel Negativity as a Measure of System-Bath Coupling and Correlation
authors: James M. McCracken
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures; added acknowledgements
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032103 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1783
abstract: Complete positivity is a ubiquitous assumption in the study of quantum systems interacting with the environment, but the lack of complete positivity of a quantum evolution (called the "negativity") can be used as a measure of the system-bath coupling and correlation. The negativity can be computed from the Choi representation of a channel, is always defined and bounded, and can be used to understand environmentally induced noise in a quantum system.

id: 1302.1801
title: Heralded photonic interaction between distant single ions
authors: Michael Schug, Jan Huwer, Christoph Kurz, Philipp M¨¹ller, J¨¹rgen Eschner
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. v2: number on p. 3, bottom, corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 213603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1801
abstract: We establish heralded interaction between two remotely trapped single 40Ca+ ions through the exchange of single photons. In the sender ion, we release single photons with controlled temporal shape on the P_3/2 to D_5/2 transition and transmit them to the distant receiver ion. Individual absorption events in the receiver ion are detected by quantum jumps. For continuously generated photons, the absorption reduces significantly the lifetime of the long-lived D_5/2 state. For triggered single-photon transmission, we observe coincidence between the emission at the sender and quantum jump events at the receiver.

id: 1302.1823
title: Intensity and State Estimation in Quantum Cryptography
authors: Sindhu Chitikela
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1823
abstract: This paper describes how the communicating parties can employ intensity and state estimation to detect if the eavesdropper has siphoned off and injected photons in the received communication. This is of relevance in quantum cryptography based on random rotations of photon polarizations.

id: 1302.1824
title: Braiding of Atomic Majorana Fermions in Wire Networks and Implementation of the Deutsch-Josza Algorithm
authors: Christina V. Kraus, P. Zoller, Mikhail A. Baranov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 203001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1824
abstract: We propose an efficient protocol for braiding atomic Majorana fermions in wire networks with AMO techniques and demonstrate its robustness against experimentally relevant errors. Based on this protocol we provide a topologically protected implementation of the Deutsch-Josza algorithm.

id: 1302.1838
title: Operational geometric phase for mixed quantum states
authors: Ole Andersson, Hoshang Heydari
comments: New material on higher order geometric phases added. Paper accepted for publication in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 053006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1838
abstract: Geometric phase has found a broad spectrum of applications in both classical and quantum physics, such as condensed matter and quantum computation. In this paper we introduce an operational geometric phase for mixed quantum states, based on spectral weighted traces of holonomies, and we prove that it generalizes the standard definition of geometric phase for mixed states, which is based on quantum interferometry. We also introduce higher order geometric phases, and prove that under a fairly weak, generically satisfied, requirement, there is always a well-defined geometric phase of some order. Our approach applies to general unitary evolutions of both nondegenerate and degenerate mixed states. Moreover, since we provide an explicit formula for the geometric phase that can be easily implemented, it is particularly well suited for computations in quantum physics.

id: 1302.1844
title: Geometry of quantum dynamics and a time-energy uncertainty relation for mixed states
authors: Ole Andersson, Hoshang Heydari
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1844
abstract: In this paper we establish important relations between Hamiltonian dynamics and Riemannian structures on phase spaces for unitarily evolving finite level quantum systems in mixed states. We show that the energy dispersion (i.e. $1/\hbar$ times the path integral of the energy uncertainty) of a unitary evolution is bounded from below by the length of the evolution curve. Also, we show that for each curve of mixed states there is a Hamiltonian for which the curve is a solution to the corresponding von Neumann equation, and the energy dispersion equals the curve's length. This allows us to express the distance between two mixed states in terms of a measurable quantity, and derive a time-energy uncertainty relation for mixed states. In a final section we compare our results with an energy dispersion estimate by Uhlmann.

id: 1302.1845
title: Linked-Cluster Technique for Finding the Distance of a Quantum LDPC Code
authors: Alexey A. Kovalev, Ilya Dumer, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 5.5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1845
abstract: We present a linked-cluster technique for calculating the distance of a quantum LDPC code. It offers an advantage over existing deterministic techniques for codes with small relative distances (which includes all known families of quantum LDPC codes), and over the probabilistic technique for codes with sufficiently high rates.

id: 1302.1855
title: Nonlinear Quantum Optomechanics via Individual Intrinsic Two-Level Defects
authors: Tom¨¢s Ramos, Vivishek Sudhir, Kai Stannigel, Peter Zoller, Tobias J. Kippenberg
comments: Comments welcome (5+7 pages), Final Published Version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 193602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1855
abstract: We propose to use the intrinsic two-level system (TLS) defect states found naturally in integrated optomechanical devices for exploring cavity QED-like phenomena with localized phonons. The Jaynes-Cummings-type interaction between TLS and mechanics can reach the strong coupling regime for existing nano-optomechanical systems, observable via clear signatures in the optomechanical output spectrum. These signatures persist even at finite temperature, and we derive an explicit expression for the temperature at which they vanish. Further, the ability to drive the defect with a microwave field allows for realization of phonon blockade, and the available controls are sufficient to deterministically prepare non-classical states of the mechanical resonator.

id: 1302.1864
title: Quantum Information Science: Emerging No More
authors: Carlton M. Caves
comments: An edited version will appear in Centennial History of the Optical Society, to be published by the Optical Society of America on the occasion of OSA's 100th anniversary. Version 2 changes one phrase regarding quantum error correction, to make clear the role of fault tolerance, and includes a list of the Reviews of Modern Physics articles referred to in the text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1864
abstract: Short history of quantum information science. The chief message is that the field is no longer emerging. It has arrived.

id: 1302.1924
title: Macroscopic Quantum Mechanics: Theory and Experimental Concepts of Optomechanics
authors: Yanbei Chen
comments: 96 pages, 21 figures and 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1924
abstract: Rapid experimental progress has recently allowed the use of light to prepare macroscopic mechanical objects into nearly pure quantum states. This research field of quantum optomechanics opens new doors toward testing quantum mechanics, and possibly other laws of physics, in new regimes. In the first part of this paper, I will review a set of techniques of quantum measurement theory that are often used to analyze quantum optomechanical systems. Some of these techniques were originally designed to analyze how a classical driving force passes through a quantum system, and can eventually be detected with optimal signal-to-noise ratio --- while others focus more on the quantum state evolution of a mechanical object under continuous monitoring. In the second part of this paper, I will review a set of experimental concepts that will demonstrate quantum mechanical behavior of macroscopic objects --- quantum entanglement, quantum teleportation, and the quantum Zeno effect. Taking the interplay between gravity and quantum mechanics as an example, I will review a set of speculations on how quantum mechanics can be modified for macroscopic objects, and how these speculations --- and their generalizations --- might be tested by optomechanics.

id: 1302.1946
title: Experimental realization of quantum algorithm for solving linear systems of equations
authors: Jian Pan, Yudong Cao, Xiwei Yao, Zhaokai Li, Chenyong Ju, Xinhua Peng, Sabre Kais, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 13 pages,8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022313 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1946
abstract: Quantum computers have the potential of solving certain problems exponentially faster than classical computers. Recently, Harrow, Hassidim and Lloyd proposed a quantum algorithm for solving linear systems of equations: given an $N\times{N}$ matrix $A$ and a vector $\vec b$, find the vector $\vec x$ that satisfies $A\vec x = \vec b$. It has been shown that using the algorithm one could obtain the solution encoded in a quantum state $|x$ using $O(\log{N})$ quantum operations, while classical algorithms require at least O(N) steps. If one is not interested in the solution $\vec{x}$ itself but certain statistical feature of the solution ${x}|M|x$ ($M$ is some quantum mechanical operator), the quantum algorithm will be able to achieve exponential speedup over the best classical algorithm as $N$ grows. Here we report a proof-of-concept experimental demonstration of the quantum algorithm using a 4-qubit nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum information processor. For all the three sets of experiments with different choices of $\vec b$, we obtain the solutions with over 96% fidelity. This experiment is a first implementation of the algorithm. Because solving linear systems is a common problem in nearly all fields of science and engineering, we will also discuss the implication of our results on the potential of using quantum computers for solving practical linear systems.

id: 1302.1976
title: Raman and non Raman EIT resonances in a degenerate four level system
authors: Haji Ahmedov, Cengiz Birlikseven
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1976
abstract: We study coherence effects in an atom having three metastable levels and single life-time broadened upper state. Two laser fields couple ground states to an excited one and an radio-frequency (rf) field operates between ground state levels. We consider the case when the common level for the rf-field and one of the laser field (to which we refer as the probing field) transitions is twice degenerate. We predict a novel type of dark states (we call them non Raman dark states), which in contrary to Raman resonances, do not require the fulfillment of the two-photon resonance condition. We realize the configuration in the atomic hydrogen and show that non Raman resonances are determined by the geometry of the rf and probing field's polarizations. For ultra-cold atoms non Raman resonances arise when the polarization vectors of the fields are parallel or perpendicular to each other. For an atomic gas at room temperatures electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) resonances associated with Raman and non Raman dark states are studied by taking into account spin-exchange relaxation in the ground state of the hydrogen atom. We establish properties of non Raman dark states by investigating the relation of EIT resonances to the polarization geometry.

id: 1302.2008
title: Hermitian four-well potential as a realization of a PT-symmetric system
authors: Manuel Kreibich, J?rg Main, Holger Cartarius, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, Figures 3 and 4 modified
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 051601(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2008
abstract: A PT-symmetric Bose-Einstein condensate can be theoretically described using a complex optical potential, however, the experimental realization of such an optical potential describing the coherent in- and outcoupling of particles is a nontrivial task. We propose an experiment for a quantum mechanical realization of a PT-symmetric system, where the PT-symmetric currents of a two-well system are implemented by coupling two additional wells to the system, which act as particle reservoirs. In terms of a simple four-mode model we derive conditions under which the two middle wells of the Hermitian four-well system behave exactly as the two wells of the PT-symmetric system. We apply these conditions to calculate stationary solutions and oscillatory dynamics. By means of frozen Gaussian wave packets we relate the Gross-Pitaevskii equation to the four-mode model and give parameters required for the external potential, which provides approximate conditions for a realistic experimental setup.

id: 1302.2011
title: Characterization of phase-averaged coherent states
authors: Alessia Allevi, Maria Bondani, Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian, Stefano Olivares
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 30, 2621-2627 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2011
abstract: We present the full characterization of phase-randomized or phase-averaged coherent states, a class of states exploited in communication channels and in decoy state-based quantum key distribution protocols. In particular, we report on the suitable formalism to analytically describe the main features of this class of states and on their experimental investigation, that results in agreement with theory. We also show the results we obtained by manipulating the phase-averaged coherent states with linear optical elements and testify their good quality by employing some non-Gaussianity measures and the concept of mutual information.

id: 1302.2035
title: New Concept of Solvability in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures
journal: Acta Polytechnica 53 (5): 473-482, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2035
abstract: In a pre-selected Hilbert space of quantum states the unitarity of the evolution is usually guaranteed via a pre-selection of the generator (i.e., of the Hamiltonian operator) in self-adjoint form. In fact, the simultaneous use of both of these pre-selections is overrestrictive. One should be allowed to make a given Hamiltonian self-adjoint only after an {\em ad hoc} generalization of Hermitian conjugation. We argue that in the generalized, hidden-Hermiticity scenario with nontrivial metric, the current concept of solvability (meaning, most often, the feasibility of a non-numerical diagonalization of Hamiltonian) requires a generalization allowing for a non-numerical form of metric. A few illustrative solvable quantum models of this type are presented.

id: 1302.2055
title: Interaction-induced correlations and non-Markovianity of quantum dynamics
authors: Andrea Smirne, Laura Mazzola, Mauro Paternostro, Bassano Vacchini
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052129 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2055
abstract: We investigate the conditions under which the trace distance between two different states of a given open system increases in time due to the interaction with an environment, therefore signalling non-Markovianity. We find that the finite-time difference in trace distance is bounded by two sharply defined quantities that are strictly linked to the occurrence of system-environment correlations created throughout their interaction and affecting the subsequent evolution of the system. This allows to shed light on the origin of non-Markovian behaviours in quantum dynamics. We best illustrate our findings by tackling two physically relevant examples: a non-Markovian dephasing mechanism that has been the focus of a recent experimental endeavour and the open-system dynamics experienced by a spin connected to a finite-size quantum spin chain.

id: 1302.2059
title: Hamiltonian Composite Dynamics Can Almost Always Lead To Negative Reduced Dynamics
authors: James M. McCracken
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures; Added a discussion of discord and proposed experimental observations of negativity
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022103 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2059
abstract: Complete positivity is a ubiquitous assumption in the study of quantum systems interacting with the environment, despite repeated efforts to point out that the assumption is not empirically justified. It will be shown that Hamiltonian evolution of a quantum system and its environment can be negative (i.e.\ not completely positive) in the energy basis, by showing that such evolution is {\it almost always} negative for given initial conditions. Ignoring or "correcting" experimental data that is not completely positive may cause the loss of important information regarding system-environment correlations and coupling. A relationship between the negativity of an evolution and the eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian will be shown, and experimental verification of negative reduced dynamics will be proposed.

id: 1302.2060
title: Tests For Complete Positivity of Quantum Channels
authors: James M. McCracken
comments: This article has been withdrawn by the authoor due to the content being incorporated in a much more succinct manner elsewhere
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2060
abstract: A quantum channel will have a Choi representation from which the complete positivity (CP) can be determined in a number of different ways. Every method relies on Choi's proof which relates CP to the positive semi-definiteness of a specially constructed matrix (i.e. the "Choi representation of the channel"). It can be shown that different CP tests can be used in different situations to avoid the computationally expensive brute force method of calculating the full spectrum of the Choi representation, which is the traditional method for testing whether or not a channel is CP. It is important to have quick, reliable analytical and computational tests for CP as negative channels become more prevalent in the study of quantum information.

id: 1302.2069
title: Macroscopic superpositions in Bose-Josephson junctions: Controlling decoherence due to atom losses
authors: Krzysztof Pawlowski, Dominique Spehner, Anna Minguzzi, Giulia Ferrini
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2069
abstract: We study how macroscopic superpositions of coherent states produced by the nondissipative dynamics of binary mixtures of ultracold atoms are affected by atom losses. We identify different decoherence scenarios for symmetric or asymmetric loss rates and interaction energies in the two modes. In the symmetric case the quantum coherence in the superposition is lost after a single loss event. By tuning appropriately the energies we show that the superposition can be protected, leading to quantum correlations useful for atom interferometry even after many loss events.

id: 1302.2074
title: Geometric uncertainty relation for mixed quantum states
authors: Ole Andersson, Hoshang Heydari
comments: 11 pages, matches published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 042110 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2074
abstract: In this paper we use symplectic reduction in an Uhlmann bundle to construct a principal fiber bundle over a general space of unitarily equivalent mixed quantum states. The bundle, which generalizes the Hopf bundle for pure states, gives in a canonical way rise to a Riemannian metric and a symplectic structure on the base space. With these we derive a geometric uncertainty relation for observables acting on quantum systems in mixed states. We also give a geometric proof of the classical Robertson-Schr\"{o}dinger uncertainty relation, and we compare the two. They turn out not to be equivalent, because of the multiple dimensions of the gauge group for general mixed states. We give examples of observables for which the geometric relation provides a stronger estimate than that of Robertson and Schr\"{o}dinger, and vice versa.

id: 1302.2081
title: Propagation and spectral properties of quantum walks in electric fields
authors: C. Cedzich, T. Ryb¨¢r, A. H. Werner, A. Alberti, M. Genske, R. F. Werner
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 160601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2081
abstract: We study one-dimensional quantum walks in a homogeneous electric field. The field is given by a phase which depends linearly on position and is applied after each step. The long time propagation properties of this system, such as revivals, ballistic expansion and Anderson localization, depend very sensitively on the value of the electric field $\Phi$, e.g., on whether $\Phi/(2\pi)$ is rational or irrational. We relate these properties to the continued fraction expansion of the field. When the field is given only with finite accuracy, the beginning of the expansion allows analogous conclusions about the behavior on finite time scales.

id: 1302.2094
title: Electric quantum walks with individual atoms
authors: Maximilian Genske, Wolfgang Alt, Andreas Steffen, Albert H. Werner, Reinhard F. Werner, Dieter Meschede, Andrea Alberti
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 190601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2094
abstract: We report on the experimental realization of electric quantum walks, which mimic the effect of an electric field on a charged particle in a lattice. Starting from a textbook implementation of discrete-time quantum walks, we introduce an extra operation in each step to implement the effect of the field. The recorded dynamics of such a quantum particle exhibits features closely related to Bloch oscillations and interband tunneling. In particular, we explore the regime of strong fields, demonstrating contrasting quantum behaviors: quantum resonances vs. dynamical localization depending on whether the accumulated Bloch phase is a rational or irrational fraction of 2\pi.

id: 1302.2156
title: Full counting statistics of photons interacting with emitter
authors: Mikhail Pletyukhov, Matou? Ringel, Vladimir Gritsev
comments: 5+7 pages, 3+8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2156
abstract: A complete characterization of quantum fluctuations in many-body systems is accessible through the full counting statistics. We present an exact computation of statistical properties of light in a basic model of light-matter interaction: a multimode photonic field coupled to a single two-level emitter. We mostly consider an initial coherent state in a given mode and demonstrate how the original Poissonian statistics gets modified because of quantum many-body scattering effects leading to non-Poissonian distributions. We argue that measuring this statistics in a simple quantum optical setup provides an insight into many-body correlation effects with photons.

id: 1302.2177
title: Two-photon interference of weak coherent laser pulses recalled from separate solid-state quantum memories
authors: Jeongwan Jin, Joshua A. Slater, Erhan Saglamyurek, Neil Sinclair, Mathew George, Raimund Ricken, Daniel Oblak, Wolfgang Sohler, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2386 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2177
abstract: Quantum memories for light, which allow the reversible transfer of quantum states between light and matter, are central to the development of quantum repeaters, quantum networks, and linear optics quantum computing. Significant progress has been reported in recent years, including the faithful transfer of quantum information from photons in pure and entangled qubit states. However, none of these demonstrations confirm that photons stored in and recalled from quantum memories remain suitable for two-photon interference measurements, such as C-NOT gates and Bell-state measurements, which constitute another key ingredient for all aforementioned applications of quantum information processing. Using pairs of weak laser pulses, each containing less than one photon on average, we demonstrate two-photon interference as well as a Bell-state measurement after either none, one, or both pulses have been reversibly mapped to separate thulium-doped titanium-indiffused lithium niobate (Ti:Tm:LiNbO3) waveguides. As the interference is always near the theoretical maximum, we conclude that our solid-state quantum memories, in addition to faithfully mapping quantum information, also preserves the entire photonic wavefunction. Hence, we demonstrate that our memories are generally suitable for use in advanced applications of quantum information processing that require two-photon interference.

id: 1302.2212
title: Entanglement of formation for qubit-qudit system using partition of qudit sytem into a set of qubit system
authors: Wen-Chao Qiang, W. B. Cardoso
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2212
abstract: Gerjuoy [Phys. Rev. A 67, 052308 (2003)] has derived a closed- form lower bound for the entanglement of formation of a mixed qubit-qudit system (qudit system has d levels with d>=3. In this paper, inspired by Gerjuoy's method, we propose a scheme that partitions a qubit-qudit system into d(d-1)/2 qubit-qubit systems, which can be treated by all known methods pertinent to qubit-qubit system. The method is demonstrated by a qubit-qudit system (The levels of qudit are d=3 and d=5, respectively)

id: 1302.2226
title: Faces for two qubit separable states and the convex hulls of trigonometric moment curves
authors: Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 
journal: Probab. Math. Statist. 33 (2013), 385-400
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2226
abstract: We analyze the facial structures of the convex set consisting of all two qubit separable states. One of faces is a four dimensional convex body generated by the trigonometric moment curve arising from polyhedral combinatorics. Another one is an eight dimensional convex body, which is the convex hull of a homeomorphic image of the two dimensional sphere. Extreme points consist of points on the surface, and any two of them determines an edge. We also reconstruct the trigonometric moment curve in any even dimensional affine space using the qubit-qudit systems, and characterize the facial structures of the convex hull.

id: 1302.2242
title: Photon solid phases in driven arrays of nonlinearly coupled cavities
authors: Jiasen Jin, Davide Rossini, Rosario Fazio, Martin Leib, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 163605 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2242
abstract: We introduce and study the properties of an array of QED cavities coupled by nonlinear elements, in the presence of photon leakage and driven by a coherent source. The nonlinear couplings lead to photon hopping and to nearest-neighbor Kerr terms. By tuning the system parameters, the steady state of the array can exhibit a photon crystal associated with a periodic modulation of the photon blockade. In some cases, the crystalline ordering may coexist with phase synchronization. The class of cavity arrays we consider can be built with superconducting circuits of existing technology.

id: 1302.2250
title: On quantum subsystem measurement
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2250
abstract: It is assumed that an arbitrary composite bipartite pure state in which the two subsystems are entangled is given, and it is investigated how the entanglement transmits the influence of measurement on only one of the subsystems to the state of the opposite subsystem. It is shown that any exact subsystem measurement has the same influence as ideal measurement on the opposite subsystem. In particular, the distant effect of subsystem measurement of a twin observable, i. e., so-called 'distant measurement', is always ideal measurement on the distant subsystem no matter how intricate the direct exact measurement on the opposite subsystem is.

id: 1302.2266
title: Bounding the quantum dimension with contextuality
authors: Otfried G¨¹hne, Costantino Budroni, Adan Cabello, Matthias Kleinmann, Jan-?ke Larsson
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062107 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2266
abstract: We show that the phenomenon of quantum contextuality can be used to certify lower bounds on the dimension accessed by the measurement devices. To prove this, we derive bounds for different dimensions and scenarios of the simplest noncontextuality inequalities. The resulting dimension witnesses work independently of the prepared quantum state. Our constructions are robust against noise and imperfections, and we show that a recent experiment can be viewed as an implementation of a state-independent quantum dimension witness.

id: 1302.2323
title: Time and the Algebraic Theory of Moments
authors: Basil J. Hiley
comments: 29 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2323
abstract: We introduce the notion of an extended moment in time, the duron. This is a region of temporal ambiguity which arises naturally in the nature of process which we take to be basic. We introduce an algebra of process and show how it is related to, but different from, the monoidal category introduced by Abramsky and Coecke. By considering the limit as the duration of the moment approaches the infinitesimal, we obtain a pair of dynamical equations, one expressed in terms of a commutator and the other which is expressed in terms of an anti-commutator. These two coupled real equations are equivalent to the Schr\"odinger equation and its dual. We then construct a bi-algebra, which allows us to make contact with the thermal quantum field theory introduced by Umezawa. This allows us to link quantum mechanics with thermodynamics. This approach leads to two types of time, one is Schr\"odinger time, the other is an irreversible time that can be associated with a movement between inequivalent vacuum states. Finally we discuss the relation between our process algebra and the thermodynamic origin of time.

id: 1302.2347
title: Provable Advantage for Quantum Strategies in Random Symmetric XOR Games
authors: Andris Ambainis, J¨¡nis Iraids
comments: Submitted to TQC 2013, February 5, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2347
abstract: Non-local games are widely studied as a model to investigate the properties of quantum mechanics as opposed to classical mechanics. In this paper, we consider a subset of non-local games: symmetric XOR games of $n$ players with 0-1 valued questions. For this class of games, each player receives an input bit and responds with an output bit without communicating to the other players. The winning condition only depends on XOR of output bits and is constant w.r.t. permutation of players. We prove that for almost any $n$-player symmetric XOR game the entangled value of the game is $\Theta (\frac{\sqrt{\ln{n}}}{n^{1/4}})$ adapting an old result by Salem and Zygmund on the asymptotics of random trigonometric polynomials. Consequently, we show that the classical-quantum gap is $\Theta (\sqrt{\ln{n}})$ for almost any symmetric XOR game.

id: 1302.2438
title: Improved quantum correlations in second harmonic generation with a squeezed pump
authors: E. MArcellina, J.F. Corney, M.K. Olsen
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2438
abstract: We investigate the effects of a squeezed pump on the quantum properties and conversion efficiency of the light produced in single-pass second harmonic generation. Using stochastic integration of the two-mode equations of motion in the positive-P representation, we find that larger violations of continuous-variable harmonic entanglement criteria are available for lesser effective interaction strengths than with a coherent pump. This enhancement of the quantum properties also applies to violations of the Reid-Drummond inequalities used to demonstrate a harmonic version of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox. We find that the conversion efficiency is largely unchanged except for very low pump intensities and high levels of squeezing.

id: 1302.2449
title: Structure-dynamics relationship in coherent transport through disordered systems
authors: Stefano Mostarda, Federico Levi, Diego Prada-Gracia, Florian Mintert, Francesco Rao
comments: 5 pages (main text), 11 figures. Accepted in date July, 11th 2013 by Nature Comm
journal: Nat. Commun. 4, 2296 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2449
abstract: Quantum transport is strongly influenced by interference with phase relations that depend sensitively on the scattering medium. Since even small changes in the geometry of the medium can turn constructive interference to destructive, a clear relation between structure and fast, efficient transport is difficult to identify. Here we present a complex network analysis of quantum transport through disordered systems to elucidate the relationship between transport efficiency and structural organization. Evidence is provided for the emergence of structural classes with different geometries but similar high efficiency. Specifically, a structural motif characterised by pair sites which are not actively participating to the dynamics renders transport properties robust against perturbations. Our results pave the way for a systematic rationalization of the design principles behind highly efficient transport which is of paramount importance for technological applications as well as to address transport robustness in natural light harvesting complexes.

id: 1302.2460
title: Scheme of 2-dimensional atom localization for a three-level atom via quantum coherence
authors: Sajjad Zafar, Rizwan Ahmed, M. Khalid Khan
comments: 1 tex file and 16 figures in .eps formate
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2460
abstract: We present a scheme for two-dimensional (2D) atom localization in a three-level atomic system. The scheme is based on quantum coherence via classical standing wave fields between the two excited levels. Our results show that conditional position probability is significantly phase dependent of the applied field and frequency detuning of spontaneously emitted photons. We obtain a single localization peak having probability close to unity by manipulating the control parameters. The effect of atomic level coherence on the sub-wavelength localization has also been studied. Our scheme may be helpful in systems involving atom-field interaction.

id: 1302.2464
title: Dispersion forces inside metallic waveguides
authors: Ephraim Shahmoon, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 062105 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2464
abstract: We consider the dispersion energy of a pair of dipoles embedded in a metallic waveguide with transverse dimension $a$ smaller than the characteristic dipolar wavelength. We find that $a$ sets the scale that separates retarded, Casimir-Polder-like, from quasistatic, van der Waals-like, interactions. Whereas in the retarded regime, the energy decays exponentially with inter-dipolar distance, typical of evanescent waves, in the van der Waals regime, the known free-space result is obtained. This short-range scaling implies that the additivity of the dispersion interactions inside a waveguide extends to denser media, along with modifications to related Casimir effects in such structures.

id: 1302.2471
title: Remote entanglement preparation
authors: C. Spee, J. I. de Vicente, B. Kraus
comments: 8 pages (including appendix), 3 figures; replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 010305(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2471
abstract: We introduce a new multipartite communication scheme, with the aim to enable the senders to remotely and obliviously provide the receivers with an arbitrary amount of multipartite entanglement. The scheme is similar to Remote State Preparation (RSP). However, we show that even though the receivers are restricted to local unitary operations, the required resources for remote entanglement preparation are less than for RSP. In order to do so we introduce a novel canonical form of arbitrary multipartite pure states describing an arbitrary number of qubits. Moreover, we show that if the receivers are enabled to perform arbitrary local operations and classical communication, the required resources can drastically be reduced. We employ this protocol to derive robust entanglement purification protocols for arbitrary pure states and show that it can also be used for sending classical information.

id: 1302.2475
title: Synthesis of arbitrary, two-mode, high visibility N-photon interference patterns
authors: Saroosh Shabbir, Marcin Swillo, Gunnar Bj?rk
comments: 5 pages, four figures, + 2 pages of supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053821 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2475
abstract: Using coherent states and linear optics, we demonstrate the synthesis of arbitrary interference patterns and establish that neither the shape nor the visibility of N-photon interference patterns can be used as a quantum signature in general. Specific examples include saw-curve and rectangle curve interference patterns, and phase super-resolution with period shortening of up to 60 times compared to ordinary interference. The former two with a visibility close to 100 % and the latter with a visibility in excess of 57 %.

id: 1302.2477
title: Quantum Zeno dynamics of qubits in a squeezed reservoir: effect of measurement selectivity
authors: Md. Manirul Ali, Po-Wen Chen, Alec Maassen van den Brink, Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: REVTeX 4-1, 13 pages, 5 jpeg figures (compile with PDFLaTeX); N.B.: "Alec" is my first, and "Maassen van den Brink" my family name
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2477
abstract: A complete suppression of the exponential decay in a qubit (interacting with a squeezed vacuum reservoir) can be achieved by frequent measurements of adequately chosen observables. The observables and initial states (Zeno subspace) for which the effect occurs depend on the squeezing parameters of the bath. We show these_quantum Zeno dynamics_ to be substantially different for selective and non-selective measurements. In either case, the approach to the Zeno limit for a finite number of measurements is also studied numerically. The calculation is extended from one to two qubits, where we see both Zeno and anti-Zeno effects depending on the initial state. The reason for the striking differences with the situation in closed systems is discussed.

id: 1302.2502
title: Eulerian and Newtonian dynamics of quantum particles
authors: Sergey Rashkovskiy
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2502
abstract: We derive the classical equations of hydrodynamic type (Euler equation and the continuity equation) from which the Schrodinger equation follows as a limit case. It is shown that the statistical ensemble corresponding to quantum system and described by the Schrodinger equation, can be considered as an inviscid gas obeying the ideal gas law with quickly oscillating sign-alternating temperature. This statistical ensemble performs the complex movements consisting of smooth average movement and fast oscillations. It is shown that average movements of statistical ensemble are described by Schrodinger equation. A model of quantum motion within the limits of classical mechanics which corresponds to the considered hydrodynamic system is suggested.

id: 1302.2517
title: Quantifying phases in homogenous twisted birefringent medium
authors: Dipti Banerjee, Srutarshi Banerjee
comments: 7 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1103.3090
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2517
abstract: The internal birefringence of an optical medium develops the dynamical phase through natural rotation of incident polarized light. The uniform twist of the medium induces an external birefringence in the system.This can be visualized through the geometric phase by the solid angle in association with the angular twist per unit thickness of the medium $k$.An equivalent physical analysis in the $l=1$ orbital angular momentum sphere also has been pointed out.

id: 1302.2548
title: Anomalous decay of quantum correlations of quantum dot qubits
authors: Katarzyna Roszak, Pawe? Mazurek, Pawe? Horodecki
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062308 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2548
abstract: We study the evolution of quantum correlations, quantified by the geometric discord, of two excitonic quantum dot qubits under the influence of the phonon environment. We show that the decay of these correlations differs substantially form the decay of entanglement. Instead of displaying sudden death type behavior, the geometric discord shows a tendency to undergo transitions between different types of decay, is sensitive to non-local phase factors, and may already be enhanced by weak environment-mediated interactions. Hence, two-qubit quantum correlations are more robust under decoherence processes, while showing a richer and more complex spectrum of behavior under unitary and non-unitary evolution.

id: 1302.2565
title: On solvability and integrability of the Rabi model
authors: Alexander Moroz
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, RevTex - a connection with the Charlier polynomials in section 4 established - to appear in Ann. Phys. (N.Y.)
journal: Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) 338, 319-340 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2565
abstract: Quasi-exactly solvable Rabi model is investigated within the framework of the Bargmann Hilbert space of analytic functions ${\cal B}$. On applying the theory of orthogonal polynomials, the eigenvalue equation and eigenfunctions are shown to be determined in terms of three systems of monic orthogonal polynomials. The formal Schweber quantization criterion for an energy variable $x$, originally expressed in terms of infinite continued fractions, can be recast in terms of a meromorphic function $F(z) = a_0 + \sum_{k=1}^\infty {\cal M}_k/(z-\xi_k)$ in the complex plane $\mathbb{C}$ with {\em real simple} poles $\xi_k$ and {\em positive} residues ${\cal M}_k$. The zeros of $F(x)$ on the real axis determine the spectrum of the Rabi model. One obtains at once that, on the real axis, (i) $F(x)$ monotonically decreases from $+\infty$ to $-\infty$ between any two of its subsequent poles $\xi_k$ and $\xi_{k+1}$, (ii) there is exactly one zero of $F(x)$ for $x\in (\xi_k,\xi_{k+1})$, and (iii) the spectrum corresponding to the zeros of $F(x)$ does not have any accumulation point. Additionally, one can provide much simpler proof of that the spectrum in each parity eigenspace ${\cal B}_\pm$ is necessarily {\em nondegenerate}. Thereby the calculation of spectra is greatly facilitated. Our results allow us to critically examine recent claims regarding solvability and integrability of the Rabi model.

id: 1302.2616
title: Functional methods underlying classical mechanics, relativity and quantum theory
authors: Alexey A. Kryukov
comments: IARD 2012 conference talk. Accepted for publication in Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2616
abstract: The paper investigates the physical content of a recently proposed mathematical framework that unifies the standard formalisms of classical mechanics, relativity and quantum theory. In the framework states of a classical particle are identified with Dirac delta functions. The classical space is "made" of these functions and becomes a submanifold in a Hilbert space of states of the particle. The resulting embedding of the classical space into the space of states is highly non-trivial and accounts for numerous deep relations between classical and quantum physics and relativity. One of the most striking results is the proof that the normal probability distribution of position of a macroscopic particle (equivalently, position of the corresponding delta state within the classical space submanifold) yields the Born rule for transitions between arbitrary quantum states.

id: 1302.2632
title: Generalized Probabilistic Theories Without the No-Restriction Hypothesis
authors: Peter Janotta, Raymond Lal
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052131 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2632
abstract: The framework of generalized probabilistic theories (GPTs) is a popular approach for studying the physical foundations of quantum theory. The standard framework assumes the no-restriction hypothesis, in which the state space of a physical theory determines the set of measurements. However, this assumption is not physically motivated. We generalize the framework to account for systems that do not obey the no-restriction hypothesis. We then show how our framework can be used to describe new classes of probabilistic theories, for example those which include intrinsic noise. Relaxing the restriction hypothesis also allows us to introduce a 'self-dualization' procedure, which yields a new class of theories that share many features of quantum theory, such as obeying Tsirelson's bound for the maximally entangled state. We then characterize joint states, generalizing the maximal tensor product. We show how this new tensor product can be used to describe the convex closure of the Spekkens toy theory, and in doing so we obtain an analysis of why it is local in terms of the geometry of its state space. We show that the unrestricted version of the Spekkens toy theory is the theory known as 'boxworld' that allows maximal nonlocal correlations.

id: 1302.2650
title: Robust Distant Entanglement Generation Using Coherent Multiphoton Scattering
authors: Ching-Kit Chan, L. J. Sham
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 070501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2650
abstract: We describe a protocol to entangle two qubits at a distance by using resonance fluorescence. The scheme makes use of the postselection of large and distinguishable fluorescence signals corresponding to entangled and unentangled qubit states and has the merits of both high success probability and high entanglement fidelity owing to the multiphoton nature. Our result shows that the entanglement generation is robust against photon fluctuations in the fluorescence signals for a wide range of driving fields. We also demonstrate that this new protocol has an average entanglement duration within the decoherence time of corresponding qubit systems, based on current experimental photon efficiency.

id: 1302.2669
title: An efficient Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm for the surface code
authors: Adrian Hutter, James R. Wootton, Daniel Loss
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures; v2: includes community feedback
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022326 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2669
abstract: Minimum-weight perfect matching (MWPM) has been been the primary classical algorithm for error correction in the surface code, since it is of low runtime complexity and achieves relatively low logical error rates [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 180501 (2012)]. A Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 160503 (2012)] is able to achieve lower logical error rates and higher thresholds than MWPM, but requires a classical runtime complexity which is super-polynomial in L, the linear size of the code. In this work we present an MCMC algorithm that achieves significantly lower logical error rates than MWPM at the cost of a polynomially increased classical runtime complexity. For error rates p close to the threshold, our algorithm needs a runtime complexity which is increased by O(L^2) relative to MWPM in order to achieve a lower logical error rate. If p is below an L-dependent critical value, no increase in the runtime complexity is necessary any longer. For p->0, the logical error rate achieved by our algorithm is exponentially smaller (in L) than that of MWPM, without requiring an increased runtime complexity. Our algorithm allows for trade-offs between runtime and achieved logical error rates as well as for parallelization, and can be also used to correct in the case of imperfect stabilizer measurements.

id: 1302.2691
title: Quantum receivers with squeezing and photon-number-resolving detectors
authors: Shuro Izumi, Masahiro Takeoka, Kazuhiro Ema, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042328 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2691
abstract: We propose quantum receivers with optical squeezing and photon-number-resolving detector (PNRD) for the near-optimal discrimination of quaternary phase-shift-keyed coherent state signals. The basic scheme is similar to the previous proposals (e.g. Phys. Rev. A 84, 042328 (2012)) in which displacement operations, on-off detectors, and electrical feedforward operations were used. Here we study two types of receivers where one installs optical squeezings and the other uses PNRDs instead of on-off detectors. We show that both receivers can attain lower error rates than that by the previous scheme and in particular, the PNRD based receiver has a significant gain under the fixed number of feedfoward steps. Moreover, we show that the PNRD based receiver can suppress the errors due to dark counts, which is not possible by the on-off detector based receiver with a limited number of feedforwards.

id: 1302.2700
title: Long distance entanglement in one-dimensional quantum systems under sinusoidal deformation
authors: Toshiya Hikihara, Takafumi Suzuki
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. v2: accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042337 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2700
abstract: We investigate entanglement generation in one-dimensional quantum spin systems with the sinusoidal deformation. In the system, the energy scale of each local term in the Hamiltonian is modified according to a position-dependent function \sin^\alpha[\frac{\pi}{N} (x - \frac{1}{2})], where x is the position of the local term and N is the length of the system. We show that at zero temperature the system with \alpha \ge 2 is able to generate a sizable entanglement between two spins at open edges even when the two spins are infinitely far apart. This long-distance entanglement is rather robust against thermal fluctuations and survives up to a temperature that decays with the system size slowly, in an algebraic form.

id: 1302.2701
title: Pseudo-Hermitian random matrix theory
authors: Shashi.C.L. Srivastava, S.R. Jain
comments: 
journal: S. C. L. Srivastava, S.R. Jain, Fortschr. Phys., 61, 276 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2701
abstract: Complex extension of quantum mechanics and the discovery of pseudo-unitarily invariant random matrix theory has set the stage for a number of applications of these concepts in physics. We briefly review the basic ideas and present applications to problems in statistical mechanics where new results have become possible. We have found it important to mention the precise directions where advances could be made if further results become available.

id: 1302.2726
title: Optimality of qubit purification protocols in the presence of imperfections
authors: Hanhan Li, Alireza Shabani, Mohan Sarovar, Birgitta K. Whaley
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032334 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2726
abstract: Quantum control is an essential tool for the operation of quantum technologies such as quantum computers, simulators, and sensors. Although there are sophisticated theoretical tools for developing quantum control protocols, formulating optimal protocols while incorporating experimental conditions remains a challenge. In this paper, motivated by recent advances in realization of real-time feedback control in circuit quantum electrodynamics systems, we study the effect of experimental imperfections on the optimality of qubit purification protocols. Specifically, we find that the optimal control solutions in the presence of detector inefficiency and non-negligible decoherence can be significantly different from the known solutions to idealized dynamical models. In addition, we present a simplified form of the verification theorem to examine the global optimality of a control protocol.

id: 1302.2731
title: Quantum correlations which imply causation
authors: Joseph Fitzsimons, Jonathan Jones, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2731
abstract: In ordinary, non-relativistic, quantum physics, time enters only as a parameter and not as an observable: a state of a physical system is specified at a given time and then evolved according to the prescribed dynamics. While the state can, and usually does, extend across all space, it is only defined at one instant of time, in conflict with special relativity where space and time are treated on an equal footing. Here we ask what would happen if we defined the notion of the quantum density matrix for multiple spatial and temporal measurements. We introduce the concept of a pseudo-density matrix which treats space and time indiscriminately. This matrix in general fails to be positive for timelike separated measurements, motivating us to define a measure of causality that discriminates between spacelike and timelike correlations. Important properties of this measure, such as monotonicity under local operations, are proved. Two qubit NMR experiments are presented that illustrate how a temporal pseudo-density matrix approaches a genuinely allowed density matrix as the amount of decoherence is increased between two consecutive measurements.

id: 1302.2771
title: Quasi-Bell states in a strongly coupled qubit-oscillator system and their delocalization in phase space
authors: R. Chakrabarti, B. Virgin Jenisha
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2771
abstract: We study evolution of bipartite entangled quasi-Bell states in a strongly coupled qubit-oscillator system in the presence of a static bias, and extend it to ultra-strong coupling regime. Using the adiabatic approximation the reduced density matrix of the qubit is obtained for the strong coupling domain in closed form involving linear combinations of Jacobi theta functions. The reduced density matrix of the oscillator is employed for obtaining the phase space Husimi Q-distribution. For the ultra-strong coupling regime delocalization in the phase space of the oscillator is studied by using the Wehrl entropy and the complexity of the quantum state. For small phase space separation the entangled state develops during time evolution squeezing property and nonclassicality of the photon statistics that is measured by the Mandel parameter.

id: 1302.2806
title: Collapse and Revival and Cat States with an N Spin System
authors: Shane Dooley, Francis McCrossan, Derek Harland, Mark J. Everitt, Timothy P. Spiller
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052323 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2806
abstract: We discuss collapse and revival of Rabi oscillations in a system comprising a qubit and a "big spin" (made of N qubits, or spin-1/2 particles). We demonstrate a regime of behaviour analogous to conventional collapse and revival for a qubit-field system, employing spin coherent states for the initial state of the big spin. These dynamics can be used to create a "Schrodinger cat" state of the big spin. Even for relatively small values of N, states with significant potential for quantum metrology applications can result, giving sensitivity approaching the Heisenberg limit.

id: 1302.2811
title: Extracting work from quantum systems
authors: Paul Skrzypczyk, Anthony J. Short, Sandu Popescu
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2811
abstract: We consider the task of extracting work from quantum systems in the resource theory perspective of thermodynamics, where free states are arbitrary thermal states, and allowed operations are energy conserving unitary transformations. Taking as our work storage system a 'weight' we prove the second law and then present simple protocols which extract average work equal to the free energy change of the system - the same amount as in classical thermodynamics. Crucially, for systems in 'classical' states (mixtures of energy eigenstates) our protocol works on a single copy of the system. This is in sharp contrast to previous results, which showed that in case of almost-deterministic work extraction, collective actions on multiple copies are necessary to extract the free energy. This establishes the fact that free energy is a meaningful notion even for individual systems in classical states. However, for non-classical states, where coherences between energy levels exist, we prove that collective actions are necessary, so long as no external sources of coherence are used.

id: 1302.2850
title: The universal path integral
authors: Seth Lloyd, Olaf Dreyer
comments: 10 pages, plain TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2850
abstract: Path integrals represent a powerful route to quantization: they calculate probabilities by summing over classical configurations of variables such as fields, assigning each configuration a phase equal to the action of that configuration. This paper defines a universal path integral, which sums over all computable structures. This path integral contains as sub-integrals all possible computable path integrals, including those of field theory, the standard model of elementary particles, discrete models of quantum gravity, string theory, etc. The universal path integral possesses a well-defined measure that guarantees its finiteness, together with a method for extracting probabilities for observable quantities. The universal path integral supports a quantum theory of the universe in which the world that we see around us arises out of the interference between all computable structures.

id: 1302.2868
title: The Kitaev-Ising model, Transition between topological and ferromagnetic order
authors: Vahid Karimipour, Laleh Memarzadeh, Parisa Zarkeshian
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures, Latex, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032322 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2868
abstract: We study the Kitaev-Ising model, where ferromagnetic Ising interactions are added to the Kitaev model on a lattice. This model has two phases which are characterized by topological and ferromagnetic order. Transitions between these two kinds of order are then studied on a quasi-one dimensional system, a ladder, and on a two dimensional periodic lattice, a torus. By exactly mapping the quasi-one dimensional case to an anisotropic XY chain we show that the transition occurs at zero $\lambda$ where $\lambda$ is the strength of the ferromagnetic coupling. In the two dimensional case the model is mapped to a 2D Ising model in transverse field, where it shows a transition at finite value of $\lambda$. A mean field treatment reveals the qualitative character of the transition and an approximate value for the transition point. Furthermore with perturbative calculation, we show that expectation value of Wilson loops behave as expected in the topological and ferromagnetic phases.

id: 1302.2897
title: Generation of single photons from an atom-cavity system
authors: Martin M¨¹cke, Joerg Bochmann, Carolin Hahn, Andreas Neuzner, Christian N?lleke, Andreas Reiserer, Gerhard Rempe, Stephan Ritter
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063805 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2897
abstract: A single rubidium atom trapped within a high-finesse optical cavity is an efficient source of single photons. We theoretically and experimentally study single-photon generation using a vacuum stimulated Raman adiabatic passage. We experimentally achieve photon generation efficiencies of up to 34% and 56% on the D1 and D2 line, respectively. Output coupling with 89% results in record-high efficiencies for single photons in one spatiotemporally well-defined propagating mode. We demonstrate that the observed generation efficiencies are constant in a wide range of applied pump laser powers and virtual level detunings. This allows for independent control over the frequency and wave packet envelope of the photons without loss in efficiency. In combination with the long trapping time of the atom in the cavity, our system constitutes a significant advancement toward an on-demand, highly efficient single-photon source for quantum information processing tasks.

id: 1302.2904
title: One-dimensional array of ion chains coupled to an optical cavity
authors: Marko Cetina, Alexei Bylinskii, Leon Karpa, Dorian Gangloff, Kristin M. Beck, Yufei Ge, Matthias Scholz, Andrew T. Grier, Isaac Chuang, Vladan Vuletic
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures, submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2904
abstract: We present a novel hybrid system where an optical cavity is integrated with a microfabricated planar-electrode ion trap. The trap electrodes produce a tunable periodic potential allowing the trapping of up to 50 separate ion chains spaced by 160 $\mu$m along the cavity axis. Each chain can contain up to 20 individually addressable Yb\textsuperscript{+} ions coupled to the cavity mode. We demonstrate deterministic distribution of ions between the sites of the electrostatic periodic potential and control of the ion-cavity coupling. The measured strength of this coupling should allow access to the strong collective coupling regime with $\lesssim$10 ions. The optical cavity could serve as a quantum information bus between ions or be used to generate a strong wavelength-scale periodic optical potential.

id: 1302.2936
title: Scattering of quantum wave packets by shallow potential islands: A quantum lens
authors: Arseni Goussev, Klaus Richter
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 052918 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2936
abstract: We consider the problem of quantum scattering of a localized wave packet by a weak Gaussian potential in two spatial dimensions. We show that, under certain conditions, this problem bears close analogy with that of focusing (or defocusing) of light rays by a thin optical lens: Quantum interference between straight paths yields the same lens equation as for refracted rays in classical optics.

id: 1302.2984
title: Generalized Entropy and Global Quantum Discord in Multi-party Quantum systems
authors: Dong Pyo Chi, Jeong San Kim, Kyungjin Lee
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062339 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2984
abstract: Using Tsallis-q entropy, we introduce the generalized concept of global quantum discord, namely the q-global quantum discord, and provide its analytic evaluation for two classes of multi-qubit states. We also provide a sufficient condition, for which the pairwise quantum correlations in terms of q-global quantum discord is monogamous in multi-party quantum systems.

id: 1302.3005
title: Entanglement of Tripartite States with Decoherence in Noninertial frames
authors: Salman Khan
comments: 10 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 59, 2012, 250
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3005
abstract: The one-tangle and {\pi}-tangle are used to quantify the entanglement of a tripartite GHZ state in noninertial frames when the system interacts with a noisy environment in the form of phase damping, phase flip and bit flip channel. It is shown that the two-tangles behave as a closed system. The one-tangle and {\pi}-tangle have different behaviors in the three channel. In the case of phase damping channel, depending on the kind of coupling, the sudden death of both one-tangle and {\pi}-tangle may or may not happen. Whereas in the case of phase flip channel the sudden death cannot be avoided. The effect of decoherence may be ignored in the limit of infinite acceleration when the system interacts with a bit flip channel. Furthermore, a sudden rebirth of the one-tangle and {\pi}-tangle occur in the case of phase flip channel that may be delayed when collective coupling is switched on.

id: 1302.3011
title: Heat engine driven by purely quantum information
authors: Jung Jun Park, Kang-Hwan Kim, Takahiro Sagawa, Sang Wook Kim
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3011
abstract: The key question of this paper is whether work can be extracted from a heat engine by using purely quantum mechanical information. If the answer is yes, what is its mathematical formula? First, by using a bipartite memory we show that the work extractable from a heat engine is bounded not only by the free energy change and the sum of the entropy change of an individual memory but also by the change of quantum mutual information contained inside the memory. We then find that the engine can be driven by purely quantum information, expressed as the so-called quantum discord, forming a part of the quantum mutual information. To confirm it, as a physical example we present the Szilard engine containing a diatomic molecule with a semi-permeable wall.

id: 1302.3031
title: Attractive Optical Forces from Blackbody Radiation
authors: Matthias Sonnleitner, Monika Ritsch-Marte, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 023601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3031
abstract: Blackbody radiation around hot objects induces ac Stark shifts of the energy levels of nearby atoms and molecules. These shifts are roughly proportional to the fourth power of the temperature and induce a force decaying with the third power of the distance from the object. We explicitly calculate the resulting attractive blackbody optical dipole force for ground state hydrogen atoms. Surprisingly, this force can surpass the repulsive radiation pressure and actually pull the atoms against the radiation energy flow towards the surface with a force stronger than gravity. We exemplify the dominance of the "blackbody force" over gravity for hydrogen in a cloud of hot dust particles. This overlooked force appears relevant in various astrophysical scenarios, in particular, since analogous results hold for a wide class of other broadband radiation sources.

id: 1302.3036
title: Off-resonant transitions in the collective dynamics of multilevel atomic ensembles
authors: Yevhen Miroshnychenko, Klaus M?lmer
comments: Special issue on Janes-Cummings physics
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 224009 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3036
abstract: We study the contributions of off-resonant transitions to the dynamics of a system of N multilevel atoms sharing one excitation and interacting with the quantized vector electromagnetic field. The Rotating Wave Approximation significantly simplifies the derivation of the equations of motion describing the collective atomic dynamics, but it leads to an incorrect expression for the dispersive part of the atom-atom interaction terms. For the case of two-level atoms and a scalar electromagnetic field, it turns out that the atom-atom interaction can be recovered correctly if integrals over the photon mode frequencies are extended to incorporate negative values. We explicitly derive the atom-atom interaction for multi-level atoms, coupled to the full vector electromagnetic field, and we recover also in this general case the validity of the results obtained by the extension to negative frequencies of the formulas derived with the Rotating Wave Approximation.

id: 1302.3110
title: Concatenated Capacity-Achieving Polar Codes for Optical Quantum Channels
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi, Sandor Imre
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, summary of the full paper. Journal-ref: Frontiers in Optics 2012 (OSA FiO 2012), Section on Quantum Computation and Communications, Rochester, New York, USA. The Optical Society of America
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3110
abstract: We construct concatenated capacity-achieving quantum codes for noisy optical quantum channels. We demonstrate that the error-probability of capacity-achieving quantum polar encoding can be reduced by the proposed low-complexity concatenation scheme.

id: 1302.3114
title: Polaractivation of Hidden Private Classical Capacity Region of Quantum Channels
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 49 pages, 13 figures (with supplemental material), minor changes, Journal-ref: IEEE Symposium on Quantum Computing and Computational Intelligence 2013 (IEEE QCCI 2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3114
abstract: We define a new phenomenon for communication over noisy quantum channels. The investigated solution is called polaractivation and based on quantum polar encoding. Polaractivation is a natural consequence of the channel polarization effect in quantum systems and makes possible to open the hidden capacity regions of a noisy quantum channel by using the idea of rate increment. While in case of a classical channel only the rate of classical communication can be increased, in case of a quantum channel the channel polarization and the rate improvement can be exploited to open unreachable capacity regions. We demonstrate the results for the opening of private classical capacity-domain. We prove that the method works for arbitrary quantum channels if a given criteria in the symmetric classical capacity is satisfied. We also derived a necessary lower bound on the rate of classical communication for the polaractivation of private classical capacity-domain.

id: 1302.3118
title: The Correlation Conversion Property of Quantum Channels
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: v3: 37 pages, Journal-ref: Quant. Inf. Proc. (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3118
abstract: Transmission of quantum entanglement will play a crucial role in future networks and long-distance quantum communications. Quantum Key Distribution, the working mechanism of quantum repeaters and the various quantum communication protocols are all based on quantum entanglement. On the other hand, quantum entanglement is extremely fragile and sensitive to the noise of the communication channel over which it has been transmitted. To share entanglement between distant points, high fidelity quantum channels are needed. In practice, these communication links are noisy, which makes it impossible or extremely difficult and expensive to distribute entanglement. In this work we first show that quantum entanglement can be generated by a new idea, exploiting the most natural effect of the communication channels: the noise itself of the link. We prove that the noise transformation of quantum channels that are not able to transmit quantum entanglement can be used to generate distillable (useable) entanglement from classically correlated input. We call this new phenomenon the Correlation Conversion property (CC-property) of quantum channels. The proposed solution does not require any non-local operation or local measurement by the parties, only the use of standard quantum channels. Our results have implications and consequences for the future of quantum communications, and for global-scale quantum communication networks. The discovery also revealed that entanglement generation by local operations is possible.

id: 1302.3143
title: Quantum Walks and Electric Networks
authors: Aleksandrs Belovs
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3143
abstract: We prove that a quantum walk can detect the presence of a marked element in a graph in $O(\sqrt{WR})$ steps for any initial probability distribution on vertices. Here, $W$ is the total weight of the graph, and $R$ is the effective resistance. This generalizes the result by Szegedy that is only applicable if the initial distribution is stationary. We describe a time-efficient quantum algorithm for 3-distinctness based on these ideas.

id: 1302.3186
title: Requirements for two-source entanglement concentration
authors: Mihai Vidrighin, Tim J. Bartley, Gaia Donati, Xian-Min Jin, Marco Barbieri, W. Steven Kolthammer, Animesh Datta, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: to appear on Quantum Measurements and Quantum Metrology
journal: Quantum Measurements and Quantum Metrology Issue (Jan 2013), pp. 5-11
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3186
abstract: Entanglement enhancement is a key task for quantum technologies. This operation performed on states produced by parametric down-conversion sources has been the object of several recent experimental investigations. In particular, conditional preparation by photon-subtraction has been shown to improve the entanglement of these states. Here we analyse the role played by non-Gaussian and Gaussian measurements in more general entanglement concentration operations performed on a pair of two-mode squeezed vacua. We find stringent requirements for achieving an improved entanglement enhancement by measuring jointly these two resource states.

id: 1302.3240
title: Complex instruction set computing architecture for performing accurate quantum $Z$ rotations with less magic
authors: Andrew J. Landahl, Chris Cesare
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures. Resource metric now non-Clifford states. Comparison now to Meier-Eastin-Knill distillation and (optimal) Selinger compiling. Minor tweaks made to concatenated teleportation analysis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3240
abstract: We present quantum protocols for executing arbitrarily accurate $\pi/2^k$ rotations of a qubit about its $Z$ axis. Reduced instruction set computing (\textsc{risc}) architectures typically restrict the instruction set to stabilizer operations and a single non-stabilizer operation, such as preparation of a "magic" state from which $T = Z(\pi/4)$ gates can be teleported. Although the overhead required to distill high-fidelity copies of this magic state is high, the subsequent quantum compiling overhead to realize $Z$ rotations in a \textsc{risc} architecture can be much greater. We develop a complex instruction set computing (\textsc{cisc}) architecture whose instruction set includes stabilizer operations and preparation of magic states from which $Z(\pi/2^k)$ gates can be teleported, for $2 \leq k \leq k_{\text{max}}$. This results in a substantial overall reduction in the number of gates required to achieve a desired gate accuracy for $Z$ rotations. The key to our construction is a family of shortened quantum Reed-Muller codes of length $2^{k+2}-1$, whose magic-state distillation threshold shrinks with $k$ but is greater than 0.85% for $k \leq 6$.

id: 1302.3247
title: Permutation-invariant quantum codes
authors: Yingkai Ouyang
comments: Figures are still available in this version. Introduction is revised, elementary proofs removed, and paper is close to its final form
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062317 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3247
abstract: A quantum code is a subspace of a Hilbert space of a physical system chosen to be correctable against a given class of errors, where information can be encoded. Ideally, the quantum code lies within the ground space of the physical system. When the physical model is the Heisenberg ferromagnet in the absence of an external magnetic field, the corresponding ground-space contains all permutation-invariant states. We use techniques from combinatorics and operator theory to construct families of permutation-invariant quantum codes. These codes have length proportional to $t^2$; one family of codes perfectly corrects arbitrary weight $t$ errors, while the other family of codes approximately correct $t$ spontaneous decay errors. The analysis of our codes' performance with respect to spontaneous decay errors utilizes elementary matrix analysis, where we revisit and extend the quantum error correction criterion of Knill and Laflamme, and Leung, Chuang, Nielsen and Yamamoto.

id: 1302.3305
title: Exploring the Effect of Noise on the Berry Phase
authors: S. Berger, M. Pechal, A. A. Abdumalikov Jr., C. Eichler, L. Steffen, A. Fedorov, A. Wallraff, S. Filipp
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 060303(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3305
abstract: We make use of a superconducting qubit to study the effects of noise on adiabatic geometric phases. The state of the system, an effective spin one-half particle, is adiabatically guided along a closed path in parameter space and thereby acquires a geometric phase. By introducing artificial fluctuations in the control parameters, we measure the geometric contribution to dephasing for a variety of noise powers and evolution times. Our results clearly show that only fluctuations which distort the path lead to geometric dephasing. In a direct comparison with the dynamic phase, which is path-independent, we observe that the adiabatic geometric phase is less affected by noise-induced dephasing. This observation directly points towards the potential of geometric phases for quantum gates or metrological applications.

id: 1302.3358
title: Faithful Solid State Optical Memory with Dynamically Decoupled Spin Wave Storage
authors: Marko Lovri?, Alban Ferrier, Dieter Suter, Philippe Goldner
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3358
abstract: We report an optical memory in a rare earth doped crystal with long storage times, up to 20 ms, together with an optical bandwidth of 1.5 MHz. This is obtained by transferring optical coherences to nuclear spin coherences, which were then protected against environmental noise by dynamical decoupling. With this approach, we achieved a 33 fold increase in spin wave storage time over the intrinsic spin coherence lifetime. Comparison between different decoupling sequences indicates that sequences insensitive to initial spin coherence increase retrieval efficiency. Finally, an interference experiment shows that relative phases of input pulses are preserved through the whole storage process with a visibility close to 1, demonstrating the usefulness of dynamical decoupling for extending the storage time of quantum memories.

id: 1302.3373
title: Detecting quantum backflow by the density of a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: M. Palmero, E. Torrontegui, M. Modugno, J. G. Muga
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 053618 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3373
abstract: Quantum backflow is a classically forbidden effect consisting in a negative flux for states with negligible negative momentum components. It has never been observed experimentally so far. We derive a general relation that connects backflow with a critical value of the particle density, paving the way for the detection of backflow by a density measurement. To this end, we propose an explicit scheme with Bose-Einstein condensates, at reach with current experimental technologies. Remarkably, the application of a positive momentum kick, via a Bragg pulse, to a condensate with a positive velocity may cause a current flow in the negative direction.

id: 1302.3383
title: Entropy-Driven Phase Transitions of Entanglement
authors: Paolo Facchi, Giuseppe Florio, Giorgio Parisi, Saverio Pascazio, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052324 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3383
abstract: We study the behavior of bipartite entanglement at fixed von Neumann entropy. We look at the distribution of the entanglement spectrum, that is the eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix of a quantum system in a pure state. We report the presence of two continuous phase transitions, characterized by different entanglement spectra, which are deformations of classical eigenvalue distributions.

id: 1302.3399
title: Numerical Estimation Schemes for Quantum Tomography
authors: Yong Siah Teo
comments: PhD thesis, 206 pages, 39 figures, available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3399
abstract: This is a PhD dissertation on the latest numerical quantum estimation schemes as of 2012, submitted to the National University of Singapore. The main content of the thesis focuses on accessing quantum information with informationally incomplete measurements to reconstruct quantum states of large quantum systems, as well as to reduce the amount of resources to reconstruct quantum channels.

id: 1302.3428
title: Quantum Error Correction for Quantum Memories
authors: Barbara M. Terhal
comments: Final version: 47 pages, 17 Figs, 311 references
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 87, 307 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3428
abstract: Active quantum error correction using qubit stabilizer codes has emerged as a promising, but experimentally challenging, engineering program for building a universal quantum computer. In this review we consider the formalism of qubit stabilizer and subsystem stabilizer codes and their possible use in protecting quantum information in a quantum memory. We review the theory of fault-tolerance and quantum error-correction, discuss examples of various codes and code constructions, the general quantum error correction conditions, the noise threshold, the special role played by Clifford gates and the route towards fault-tolerant universal quantum computation. The second part of the review is focused on providing an overview of quantum error correction using two-dimensional (topological) codes, in particular the surface code architecture. We discuss the complexity of decoding and the notion of passive or self-correcting quantum memories. The review does not focus on a particular technology but discusses topics that will be relevant for various quantum technologies.

id: 1302.3468
title: How much work can a quantum device extract from a heat engine?
authors: D. Gelbwaser-Klimovsky, R. Alicki, G. Kurizki
comments: Replaced by arXiv:1306.1472 [quant-ph]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3468
abstract: Work extraction from a heat engine in a cycle by a quantum mechanical device (quantum "piston") is analyzed. The standard definition of work fails in the quantum domain. The correct extractable work and its efficiency bound are shown to crucially depend on the initial quantum state of the piston. The transient efficiency bound may exceed the standard Carnot bound, although it complies with the second law. Energy gain (e.g. in lasing) is shown to drastically differ from work gain.

id: 1302.3502
title: Unified approach to contextuality, non-locality, and temporal correlations
authors: M. Markiewicz, P. Kurzynski, J. Thompson, S.-Y. Lee, A. Soeda, T. Paterek, D. Kaszlikowski
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3502
abstract: We highlight the existence of a joint probability distribution as the common underpinning assumption behind Bell-type, contextuality, and Leggett-Garg-type tests. We then present a procedure to translate contextual scenarios into temporal Leggett-Garg-type and spatial Bell-type ones. To demonstrate the generality of this approach we construct a family of spatial Bell-type inequalities. We show that in Leggett-Garg scenario a necessary condition for contextuality in time is given by a violation of consistency conditions in Consistent Histories approach to quantum mechanics.

id: 1302.3509
title: Universal Separability and Entanglement in Identical Particle Systems
authors: Toshihiko Sasaki, Tsubasa Ichikawa, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87 (2013) 052313
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3509
abstract: Entanglement is known to be a relative notion, defined with respect to the choice of physical observables to be measured (i.e., the measurement setup used). This implies that, in general, the same state can be both separable and entangled for different measurement setups, but this does not exclude the existence of states which are separable (or entangled) for all possible setups. We show that for systems of bosonic particles there indeed exist such universally separable states: they are i.i.d. pure states. In contrast, there is no such state for fermionic systems with a few exceptional cases. We also find that none of the fermionic and bosonic systems admits universally entangled states.

id: 1302.3511
title: Analytical study of quadratic and non-quadratic short-time behavior of quantum decay
authors: Sergio Cordero, Gast¨®n Garc¨ªa-Calder¨®n
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062116 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3511
abstract: The short-time behavior of quantum decay of an unstable state initially located within an interaction region of finite range is investigated using a resonant expansion of the survival amplitude. It is shown that in general the short-time behavior of the survival probability $S(t)$ has a dependence on the initial state and may behave either as $S(t)=1-\mathcal{O}(t^{3/2})$ or as $S(t)=1-\mathcal{O}(t^{2})$. The above cases are illustrated by solvable models. The experiment reported in Ref. [1] does not distinguish between the above short-time behaviors.

id: 1302.3638
title: Kitaev's Z_d-Codes Threshold Estimates
authors: Guillaume Duclos-Cianci, David Poulin
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 87, (062338), 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3638
abstract: We study the quantum error correction threshold of Kitaev's toric code over the group Z_d subject to a generalized bit-flip noise. This problem requires novel decoding techniques, and for this purpose we generalize the renormalization group method we previously introduced for Z_2 topological codes.

id: 1302.3689
title: Effect of inter-particle interaction in a free oscillation atomic interferometer
authors: Thom¨¢s Fogarty, Anthony Kiely, Steve Campbell, Thomas Busch
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures, Published Version. NOTE: This version corrects some minor typos in Sec. II A and therefore reflects the erratum associated with the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043630 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3689
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of two interacting bosons repeatedly scattering off a beam-splitter in a free oscillation atom interferometer. Using the inter-particle scattering length and the beam splitter probabilites as our control parameters, we show that even in a simple setup like this a wide range of strongly correlated quantum states can be created. This in particular includes the NOON state, which maximizes the quantum Fisher information and is a foremost state in quantum metrology.

id: 1302.3706
title: Narrow Band Source of Transform-Limited Photon Pairs via Four-Wave Mixing in a Cold Atomic Ensemble
authors: Bharath Srivathsan, Gurpreet Kaur Gulati, Chng Mei Yuen Brenda, Gleb Maslennikov, Dzmitry Matsukevich, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 123602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3706
abstract: We observe narrowband pairs of time-correlated photons of wavelengths 776\,nm and 795\,nm from non-degenerate four-wave mixing in a laser-cooled atomic ensemble of $^{87}${Rb} using a cascade decay scheme. Coupling the photon pairs into single mode fibers, we observe an instantaneous rate of 7700 pairs per second with silicon avalanche photodetectors, and an optical bandwidth below 30\,MHz. Detection events exhibit a strong correlation in time ($g^{(2)}(\tau=0)\approx5800$), and a high coupling efficiency indicated by a pair-to-single ratio of 23%. The violation of the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality by a factor of $8.4\times10^6$ indicates a strong non-classical correlation between the generated fields, while a Hanbury--Brown--Twiss experiment in the individual photons reveals their thermal nature. The narrow bandwidth and brightness of our source makes it ideal for interacting with atomic ensembles in quantum communication protocols.

id: 1302.3709
title: Unextendible Mutually Unbiased Bases from Pauli Classes
authors: Prabha Mandayam, Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Markus Grassl, William K. Wootters
comments: 22 pages, v2: minor changes, references added; published version
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 14, 0823-0844 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3709
abstract: We provide a construction of sets of (d/2+1) mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) in dimensions d=4,8 using maximal commuting classes of Pauli operators. We show that these incomplete sets cannot be extended further using the operators of the Pauli group. However, specific examples of sets of MUBs obtained using our construction are shown to be strongly unextendible; that is, there does not exist another vector that is unbiased with respect to the elements in the set. We conjecture the existence of such unextendible sets in higher dimensions (d=2^{n}, n>3) as well. Furthermore, we note an interesting connection between these unextendible sets and state-independent proofs of the Kochen-Specker Theorem for two-qubit systems. Our construction also leads to a proof of the tightness of a H_{2} entropic uncertainty relation for any set of three MUBs constructed from Pauli classes in d=4.

id: 1302.3781
title: Two-dimensional ion trap lattice on a microchip
authors: R. C. Sterling, H. Rattanasonti, S. Weidt, K. Lake, P. Srinivasan, S. C. Webster, M. Kraft, W. K. Hensinger
comments: 
journal: Nat. Commun. 5:3637 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3781
abstract: Microfabricated ion traps are a major advancement towards scalable quantum computing with trapped ions. The development of more versatile ion-trap designs, in which tailored arrays of ions are positioned in two dimensions above a microfabricated surface, would lead to applications in fields as varied as quantum simulation, metrology and atom-ion interactions. Current surface ion traps often have low trap depths and high heating rates, due to the size of the voltages that can be applied to them, limiting the fidelity of quantum gates. Here we report on a fabrication process that allows for the application of very high voltages to microfabricated devices in general and use this advance to fabricate a 2D ion trap lattice on a microchip. Our microfabricated architecture allows for reliable trapping of 2D ion lattices, long ion lifetimes, rudimentary shuttling between lattice sites and the ability to deterministically introduce defects into the ion lattice.

id: 1302.3786
title: Secure entanglement distillation for double-server blind quantum computation
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae, Keisuke Fujii
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 020502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3786
abstract: Blind quantum computation is a new secure quantum computing protocol where a client, who does not have enough quantum technologies at her disposal, can delegate her quantum computation to a server, who has a fully-fledged quantum computer, in such a way that the server cannot learn anything about client's input, output, and program. If the client interacts with only a single server, the client has to have some minimum quantum power, such as the ability of emitting randomly rotated single-qubit states or the ability of measuring states. If the client interacts with two servers who share Bell pairs but cannot communicate with each other, the client can be completely classical. For such a double-server scheme, two servers have to share clean Bell pairs, and therefore the entanglement distillation is necessary in a realistic noisy environment. In this paper, we show that it is possible to perform entanglement distillation in the double-server scheme without degrading the security of the blind quantum computing.

id: 1302.3787
title: Proposed test of relative phase as hidden variable in quantum mechanics
authors: Steven Peil
comments: 12 pages. Published by Springer
journal: Foundations of Physics 42, pp 1523-1533 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3787
abstract: We consider the possibility that the relative phase in quantum mechanics plays a role in determining measurement outcome and could therefore serve as a "hidden" variable. The Born rule for measurement equates the probability for a given outcome with the absolute square of the coefficient of the basis state, which by design removes the relative phase from the formulation. The value of this phase at the moment of measurement naturally averages out in an ensemble, which would prevent any dependence from being observed, and we show that conventional frequency-spectroscopy measurements on discrete quantum systems cannot be imposed at a specific phase due to a straightforward uncertainty relation. We lay out general conditions for imposing measurements at a specific value of the relative phase so that the possibility of its role as a hidden variable can be tested, and we discuss implementation for the specific case of an atomic two-state system with laser-induced fluorescence for measurement.

id: 1302.3810
title: Synchronization, quantum correlations and entanglement in oscillator networks
authors: Gonzalo Manzano, Fernando Galve, Gian Luca Giorgi, Emilio Hern¨¢ndez-Garc¨ªa, Roberta Zambrini
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Scientific Reports
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1439, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3810
abstract: Synchronization is one of the paradigmatic phenomena in the study of complex systems. It has been explored theoretically and experimentally mostly to understand natural phenomena, but also in view of technological applications. Although several mechanisms and conditions for synchronous behavior in spatially extended systems and networks have been identified, the emergence of this phenomenon has been largely unexplored in quantum systems until very recently. Here we discuss synchronization in quantum networks of different harmonic oscillators relaxing towards a stationary state, being essential the form of dissipation. By local tuning of one of the oscillators, we establish the conditions for synchronous dynamics, in the whole network or in a motif. Beyond the classical regime we show that synchronization between (even unlinked) nodes witnesses the presence of quantum correlations and entanglement. Furthermore, synchronization and entanglement can be induced between two different oscillators if properly linked to a random network.

id: 1302.3823
title: Dynamical decoupling with tailored waveplates for long distance communication using polarization qubits
authors: Bhaskar Roy Bardhan, Katherine L. Brown, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052311 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3823
abstract: We address the issue of dephasing effects in flying polarization qubits propagating through optical fiber by using the method of dynamical decoupling. The control pulses are implemented with half waveplates suitably placed along the realistic lengths of the single mode optical fiber. The effects of the finite widths of the waveplates on the polarization rotation are modeled using tailored refractive index profiles inside the waveplates. We show that dynamical decoupling is effective in preserving the input qubit state with the fidelity close to one when the polarization qubit is subject to the random birefringent noise in the fiber, as well the rotational imperfections (flip-angle errors) due to the finite width of the waveplates.

id: 1302.3838
title: Thermal noise for quantum state inference
authors: D. Mogilevtsev, V. S. Shchesnovich, N. Korolkova
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3838
abstract: In this work we describe a simple and efficient scheme for inference of photon number distribution by adding variable thermal noise to the signal. The inference remains feasible even if the scheme parameters are subject to random dynamical change.

id: 1302.3847
title: Ultrafast QND measurements based on diamond-shape artificial atom
authors: I. Diniz, E. Dumur, O. Buisson, A. Auff¨¨ves
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3847
abstract: We propose a Quantum Non Demolition (QND) read-out scheme for a superconducting artificial atom coupled to a resonator in a circuit QED architecture, for which we estimate a very high measurement fidelity without Purcell effect limitations. The device consists of two transmons coupled by a large inductance, giving rise to a diamond-shape artificial atom with a logical qubit and an ancilla qubit interacting through a cross-Kerr like term. The ancilla is strongly coupled to a transmission line resonator. Depending on the qubit state, the ancilla is resonantly or dispersively coupled to the resonator, leading to a large contrast in the transmitted microwave signal amplitude. This original method can be implemented with state of the art Josephson parametric amplifier, leading to QND measurements in a few tens of nanoseconds with fidelity as large as 99.9 %.

id: 1302.3865
title: Upper bounds on mixing rates
authors: Elliott H. Lieb, Anna Vershynina
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, volume 13, no. 11-12, pp. 0986-0994 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3865
abstract: We prove upper bounds on the rate, called "mixing rate", at which the von Neumann entropy of the expected density operator of a given ensemble of states changes under non-local unitary evolution. For an ensemble consisting of two states, with probabilities of p and 1-p, we prove that the mixing rate is bounded above by 4\sqrt{p(1-p)} for any Hamiltonian of norm 1. For a general ensemble of states with probabilities distributed according to a random variable X and individually evolving according to any set of bounded Hamiltonians, we conjecture that the mixing rate is bounded above by a Shannon entropy of a random variable X. For this general case we prove an upper bound that is independent of the dimension of the Hilbert space on which states in the ensemble act.

id: 1302.3923
title: A complicated Duffing oscillator in the surface-electrode ion trap
authors: Hao-Yu Wu, Yi. Xie, Wei Wan, Liang Chen, Fei Zhou, Mang Feng
comments: 8 pages with 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3923
abstract: The oscillation coupling and different nonlinear effects are observed in a single trapped $^{40}Ca^{+}$ ion confined in our home-built surface-electrode trap (SET). The coupling and the nonlinearity are originated from the high-order multipole potentials due to different layouts and the fabrication asymmetry of the SET. We solve a complicated Duffing equation with coupled oscillation terms by the multiple scale method, which fits the experimental values very well. Our investigation in the SET helps for exploring nonlinearity using currently available techniques and for suppressing instability of qubits in quantum information processing with trapped ions.

id: 1302.3934
title: Myoelectric Control of Artificial Limb Inspired by Quantum Information Processing
authors: Michael Siomau, Ning Jiang
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures and 16 references
journal: Physica Scripta 90, 035001 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Medical Physics (physics.med-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3934
abstract: Precise and elegant coordination of a prosthesis across many degrees of freedom represents a significant challenge to efficient rehabilitation of people with limb deficiency. Processing the electrical neural signals, collected from the surface of the remnant muscles of the stump, is a common way to initiate and control the different movements available to the artificial limb. Based on the assumption that there are distinguishable and repeatable signal patterns among different types of muscular activation, the problem of the prosthesis control reduces to one of pattern recognition. Widely accepted classical methods for pattern recognition, however, cannot provide simultaneous and proportional control of the artificial limb. Here we show that, in principle, quantum information processing of the neural signals allows us to overcome the above-mentioned difficulties suggesting a very simple scheme for myoelectric control of artificial limb with advanced functionalities.

id: 1302.3951
title: Quantum dynamics of a nano-rod under compression
authors: Geoffrey M. Beck, Alessandro Sergi
comments: Accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3951
abstract: A nano-rod under compression, which is capacitively coupled to a Cooper-pair box, can be modeled in terms of a quartic oscillator linearly interacting with a tunnelling pseudo-spin. We have integrated numerically the quantum dynamics of this system in the partial Wigner representation and calculated the pseudo-spin population difference. Depending on the coupling, we have verified that the quantum tunnelling of the oscillator can lead to a more effective reduction of the Rabi oscillation amplitude of the pseudo-spin. Such findings suggests an experimental set-up that might be able to discriminate between the quantum and the classical motion of a nano-rod.

id: 1302.3963
title: Classification Scheme for Kinetic Energy Operators with Position-Dependent Mass
authors: Adel Trabelsi, Fethi Madouri, Abdeldjalil Merdaci, Abdulkarim Almatar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3963
abstract: In this paper we present a complete classification scheme for kinetic energy operators (KEO's) describing a particle endowed with position-dependent mass (PDM). We first present a generalized formulation of KEO's with PDM and show that it is equivalent to three-parameter linear formulation. This reduces further to two independent parameters under Hermiticity condition. Based on this linear formulation we prove that, contrary to what was widely believed, von Roos family is not the most general ordering. We found an entire new family of Hermitian KEO's that does not fit into von Roos ordering. We were able to construct all the Hermitian KEO's and classify them into two-parameter classes. As one application, we solve the puzzling case of Yang and Yee KEO. We also find, under certain conditions, some kind of duality between von Roos ordering and one of the new classes.

id: 1302.3980
title: Generalized quantum microcanonical ensemble from random matrix product states
authors: Silvano Garnerone, Thiago R. de Oliveira
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 214426 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3980
abstract: We propose a tensor network algorithm for the efficient sampling of quantum pure states belonging to a generalized microcanonical ensemble. The algorithm consists in an adaptation of the power method to a recently introduced ensemble of random matrix product states. The microcanonical ensemble that we consider is characterized by the fact that the participating energy eigenstates are not required to have identical statistical weight. To test the method we apply it to the Heisenberg model with an external magnetic field, and we find that the magnetization curves, due to the microcanonical constraint, are qualitatively different from those obtained in the canonical ensemble. Possible future applications include the study of isolated quantum systems evolving after a quantum quench.

id: 1302.3998
title: Dynamic Generation of Topologically Protected Self-Correcting Quantum Memory
authors: Daniel Becker, Tetsufumi Tanamoto, Adrian Hutter, Fabio L. Pedrocchi, Daniel Loss
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042340 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3998
abstract: We propose a scheme to dynamically realize a quantum memory based on the toric code. The code is generated from qubit systems with typical two-body interactions (Ising, XY, Heisenberg) using periodic, NMR-like, pulse sequences. It allows one to encode the logical qubits without measurements and to protect them dynamically against the time evolution of the physical qubits. A weakly coupled cavity mode mediates a long-range attractive interaction between the stabilizer operators of the toric code, thereby suppressing the creation of thermal anyons. This significantly increases the lifetime of the memory compared to the code with noninteracting stabilizers. We investigate how the fidelity, with which the toric code is realized, depends on the period length T of the pulse sequence and the magnitude of possible pulse errors. We derive an optimal period T_opt that maximizes the fidelity.

id: 1302.4008
title: Time dependent Stark ladders: Exact propagator and caustic control
authors: Emerson Sadurni
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 2013 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 135302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4008
abstract: In this note we present a new propagator for a particle in discrete space under the influence of a time-dependent field. With this result we are able to control the shape of caustics emerging from a point-like source, as the explicit form of the wavefronts can be put in terms of the external field.

id: 1302.4039
title: Super-quantum correlation and geometry for Bell-diagonal states with weak measurements
authors: Yao-Kun Wang, Teng Ma, Heng Fan, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Quantum Inf Process 13, 283(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4039
abstract: We propose "super one-way deficit" by weak measurement as the generalization of one-way deficit defined for standard projective measurement. The super one-way deficit for Werner state is obtained analytically. We find that super one-way deficit is smaller than the standard one-way deficit, which contrasts with a straightforward expectation based on the known fact that super-quantum discord by weak measurement is always larger than the quantum discord defined by projective measurement. On the other hand, by tuning the weak measurement continuously to the projective measurement, both super one-way deficit and super-quantum discord converge to the same value, which is either the one-way deficit or the quantum discord both quantifying quantum correlation. In this sense, weak measurement does not necessarily capture more quantumness of correlations. We also give the geometry of super- quantum discord of the Bell-diagonal states with explicit geometrical figures. As an application, the dynamic behavior of super- quantum correlation including super-quantum discord and super one-way deficit under decoherence is investigated. We find that the order relation of the super-quantum correlation and the quantum correlation keep unchanged under the phase flipping channel for the Bell-diagonal states and the Werner states.

id: 1302.4081
title: Optimal error regions for quantum state estimation
authors: Jiangwei Shang, Hui Khoon Ng, Arun Sehrawat, Xikun Li, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, 1 table, 23 references; title changed; v2 corrects some short-comings of v1 and reports additional details
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 123026
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4081
abstract: Rather than point estimators, states of a quantum system that represent one's best guess for the given data, we consider optimal regions of estimators. As the natural counterpart of the popular maximum-likelihood point estimator, we introduce the maximum-likelihood region---the region of largest likelihood among all regions of the same size. Here, the size of a region is its prior probability. Another concept is the smallest credible region---the smallest region with pre-chosen posterior probability. For both optimization problems, the optimal region has constant likelihood on its boundary. We discuss criteria for assigning prior probabilities to regions, and illustrate the concepts and methods with several examples.

id: 1302.4100
title: Genuine multiparticle entanglement of permutationally invariant states
authors: Leonardo Novo, Tobias Moroder, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, figures 3 and 5 updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012305 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4100
abstract: We consider the problem of characterizing genuine multiparticle entanglement for permutationally invariant states using the approach of PPT mixtures. We show that the evaluation of this necessary biseparability criterion scales polynomially with the number of particles. In practice, it can be evaluated easily up to ten qubits and improves existing criteria significantly. Finally, we show that our approach solves the problem of characterizing genuine multiparticle entanglement for permutationally invariant three-qubit states.

id: 1302.4110
title: Gaussian wavepacket dynamics and quantum tunneling in asymmetric double-well systems
authors: Hideo Hasegawa
comments: 24 pages, 14 figures, revised manuscript accepted in Physica A
journal: Physica A 392 (2013) 6232-6246
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4110
abstract: We have studied dynamical properties and quantum tunneling in asymmetric double-well (DW) systems, by solving Schr\"{o}dinger equation with the use of two kinds of spectral methods for initially squeezed Gaussian wavepackets. Time dependences of wavefunction, averages of position and momentum, the auto-correlation function, an uncertainty product and the tunneling probability have been calculated. Our calculations have shown that (i) the tunneling probability is considerably reduced by a potential asymmetry $\Delta U$, (ii) a resonant tunneling with $|\Delta U| \simeq \kappa \:\hbar \omega$ is realized for motion starting from upper minimum of asymmetric potential wells, but not for motion from lower minimum, ($\kappa=0,1,2,...$; $\omega$: oscillator frequency at minima), (iii) the reduction of the tunneling probability by an asymmetry is less significant for the Gaussian wavepacket with narrower width, and (iv) the uncertainty product $<\delta x^2> <\delta p^2>$ in the resonant tunneling state is larger than that in the non-resonant tunneling state. The item (ii) is in contrast with the earlier study [Mugnai {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 38} (1987) 2182] which showed the symmetric result for motion starting from upper and lower minima.

id: 1302.4122
title: Protected gates for superconducting qubits
authors: Peter Brooks, Alexei Kitaev, John Preskill
comments: 31 pages, 19 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052306 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4122
abstract: We analyze the accuracy of quantum phase gates acting on "zero-pi qubits" in superconducting circuits, where the gates are protected against thermal and Hamiltonian noise by continuous-variable quantum error-correcting codes. The gates are executed by turning on and off a tunable Josephson coupling between an LC oscillator and a qubit or pair of quits; assuming perfect qubits, we show that the gate errors are exponentially small when the oscillator's impedance sqrt{L/C} is large compared to hbar/4e^2 ~ 1 kilo-ohm. The protected gates are not computationally universal by themselves, but a scheme for universal fault-tolerant quantum computation can be constructed by combining them with unprotected noisy operations. We validate our analytic arguments with numerical simulations.

id: 1302.4131
title: Photon statistics in the dynamical Casimir effect modified by a harmonic oscillator detector
authors: A. V. Dodonov, V. V. Dodonov
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, to appear in the Topical Issue of Physica Scripta: Proceedings of CEWQO-2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4131
abstract: It was predicted some time ago that the cavity dynamical Casimir effect (generation of photons from the initial vacuum state in a cavity with moving walls) might be observed if a boundary vibrates at the double frequency of some selected cavity mode. However, to register the created photons one has to couple the cavity mode with some detector. Considering the harmonic oscillator model of a detector, we analyze how different coupling regimes can affect the statistics of the created quanta.

id: 1302.4139
title: Security analysis of the decoy method with the Bennett-Brassard 1984 protocol for finite key lengths
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Ryota Nakayama
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics, 16 063009 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4139
abstract: This paper provides a formula for the sacrifice bit-length for privacy amplification with the Bennett-Brassard 1984 protocol for finite key lengths when we employ the decoy method. Using the formula, we can guarantee the security parameter for realizable quantum key distribution system. The key generation rates with finite key lengths are numerically evaluated. The proposed method improves the existing key generation rate even in the asymptotic setting.

id: 1302.4150
title: Duality in Entanglement-Assisted Quantum Error Correction
authors: Ching-Yi Lai, Todd A. Brun, Mark M. Wilde
comments: This paper is a compact version of arXiv:1010.5506
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory vol. 59, no. 6, pages 4020-4024 (June 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4150
abstract: The dual of an entanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting (EAQEC) code is defined from the orthogonal group of a simplified stabilizer group. From the Poisson summation formula, this duality leads to the MacWilliams identities and linear programming bounds for EAQEC codes. We establish a table of upper and lower bounds on the minimum distance of any maximal-entanglement EAQEC code with length up to 15 channel qubits.

id: 1302.4156
title: Quantum Mechanics Without Observers
authors: W.H. Sulis
comments: 39 pages, Section on non-relativistic quantum mechanics model revised for greater clarity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4156
abstract: The measurement problem and the role of observers have plagued quantum mechanics since its conception. Attempts to resolve these have introduced anthropomorphic or non-realist notions into physics. A shift of perspective based upon process theory and utilizing methods from combinatorial games, interpolation theory and complex systems theory results in a novel realist version of quantum mechanics incorporating quasi-local, nondeterministic hidden variables that are compatible with the no-hidden variable theorems and relativistic invariance, and reproduce the standard results of quantum mechanics to a high degree of accuracy without invoking observers.

id: 1302.4180
title: Review of Nelson's analysis of Bell's theorem
authors: Benjamin Schulz
comments: 19 pages, section added where Bell's original articles are analyzed and compared in detail with Nelson's work
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4180
abstract: This article contains a review of Nelson's analysis of Bell's theorem. It shows that Bell's inequalities can be violated with a theory of local random variables if one accepts that the outcomes of these variables are not predetermined prior to measurement. The article describes the relation between Bell's theorem and the Strong Free Will theorem of Conway and Kochen. Then, the original articles of Bell are analyzed in detail. Following an article of Faris, it is explained that Bell's work on the hidden variable question in fact describes two separate theorems. Bell's first theorem says that there can be no model for the singlet state where an outcome does not depend locally on the settings of the detector where the outcome was measured. Bell's second theorem shows that Bell's inequalities can be violated by a theory that is either not deterministic, or violates causality in the sense of relativity or the free will assumption of the experimenters. It is shown in detail where Bell implicitly makes the various locality assumptions that Nelson has shown to be necessary for deriving Bell's inequality. The article closes by relating the various assumptions needed to derive Bell's theorem with the reality criterion of EPR

id: 1302.4228
title: The Copenhagen Interpretation as an Emergent Phenomenon
authors: Timothy J. Hollowood
comments: 33 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4228
abstract: The Copenhagen interpretation has been remarkably successful but seems at odds with the underlying linearity of quantum mechanics. We show how it can emerge in a simple way from the underlying microscopic quantum world governed by Schrodinger's equation without the need for observers or their brains. In order to achieve this, we assemble pieces of various pre-existing ideas. Firstly, we adopt a relational approach and use the eigenvectors of the reduced density matrix of a quantum sub-system, or equivalently the Schmidt decomposition, to define the `internal state' of a sub-system. Previous work has identified serious objections to such an interpretation because it apparently leads to macroscopic superpositions and physically unacceptable instabilities near degeneracies. We show that both these problems are solved if the sub-system consists of a large number of coarse grained degrees of freedom as one expects in order to make contact with the classical world. We further argue that coarse graining is a necessary ingredient because measuring devices have both finite spatial and temporal resolutions. What results is an interpretation in which both decoherence and coarse graining play key roles and from which the rules of the Copenhagen interpretation are seen to emerge in realistic situations that include the measurement of the position of a particle and a decay process.

id: 1302.4247
title: Wave Mechanics without Probability
authors: Adriano Orefice, Raffaele Giovanelli, Domenico Ditto
comments: Corrected text and references, 14 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1207.0130
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4247
abstract: The behavior of monochromatic electromagnetic waves in stationary media is shown to be ruled by a frequency dependent function, which we call Wave Potential, encoded in the structure of the Helmholtz equation. Contrary to the common belief that the very concept of "ray trajectory" is reserved to the eikonal approximation, a general and exact ray-based Hamiltonian treatment, reducing to the eikonal approximation in the absence of Wave Potential, shows that its presence induces a mutual, perpendicular ray-coupling, which is the one and only cause of any typically wave-like phenomenon, such as diffraction and interference. Recalling, then, that the time-independent Schroedinger and Klein-Gordon equations (associating stationary "matter waves" to mono-energetic particles) are themselves Helmholtz-like equations, the exact, ray-based treatment developed for classical electromagnetic waves is extended - without resorting to statistical concepts - to the exact, trajectory-based Hamiltonian dynamics of mono-energetic point-like particles, both in the non-relativistic and in the relativistic case. The trajectories turn out to be perpendicularly coupled, once more, by an exact, stationary, energy-dependent Wave Potential, coinciding in the form, but not in the physical meaning, with the statistical, time-varying, energy-independent "Quantum Potential" of Bohm's theory, which views particles, just like the standard Copenhagen interpretation, as traveling wave-packets. These results, together with the connection which is shown to exist between Wave Potential and Uncertainty Principle, suggest a novel, non-probabilistic interpretation of Wave Mechanics.

id: 1302.4259
title: Two-qubit non-Markovianity induced by a common environment
authors: C. Addis, P. Haikka, S. McEndoo, C. Macchiavello, S. Maniscalco
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, Published version with minor modifications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052109 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4259
abstract: We study non-Markovianity as backflow of information in two-qubit systems. We consider a setting where, by changing the distance between the qubits, one can interpolate between independent reservoir and common reservoir scenarios. We demonstrate that non-Markovianity can be induced by the common reservoir and single out the physical origin of this phenomenon. We show that two-qubit non-Markovianity coincides with instances of non-divisibility of the corresponding dynamical map, and we discuss the pair of states maximizing information flowback. We also discuss the issue of additivity for the measure we use and in doing so, give an indication of its usefulness as a resource for multipartite quantum systems.

id: 1302.4260
title: Non-Markovian qubit dynamics induced by Coulomb crystals
authors: Massimo Borrelli, Pinja Haikka, Gabriele De Chiara, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 010101(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4260
abstract: We investigate the back-flow of information in a system with a second-order structural phase transition, namely a quasi one-dimensional Coulomb crystal. Using standard Ramsey interferometry which couples a target ion (the system) to the rest of the chain (a phononic environment), we study the non-Markovian character of the resulting open system dynamics. We study two different time-scales and show that the back-flow of information pinpoints both the phase transition and different dynamical features of the chain as it approaches criticality. We also establish an exact link between the back-flow of information and the Ramsey fringe visibility.

id: 1302.4306
title: Identical classical particles: half fermions and half bosons
authors: Falk T?ppel, Andrea Aiello
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012130 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4306
abstract: We study the problem of particle indistinguishability for the three cases known in nature: identical classical particles, identical bosons and identical fermions. By exploiting the fact that different types of particles are associated with Hilbert space vectors with different symmetries, we establish some relations between the expectation value of several different operators, as the particle number one and the interparticle correlation one, evaluated for states of a pair of identical (a) classical particles, (b) bosons and (c) fermions. We find that the quantum behavior of a pair of identical classical particles has exactly half fermionic and half bosonic characteristics.

id: 1302.4310
title: Experimental Quantum Computing to Solve Systems of Linear Equations
authors: X.-D. Cai, Christian Weedbrook, Z.-E. Su, M.-C. Chen, Mile Gu, M.-J. Zhu, L. Li, N.-L. Liu, Chao-Yang Lu, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: accepted version, to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4310
abstract: Solving linear systems of equations is ubiquitous in all areas of science and engineering. With rapidly growing data sets, such a task can be intractable for classical computers, as the best known classical algorithms require a time proportional to the number of variables N. A recently proposed quantum algorithm shows that quantum computers could solve linear systems in a time scale of order log(N), giving an exponential speedup over classical computers. Here we realize the simplest instance of this algorithm, solving 2*2 linear equations for various input vectors on a quantum computer. We use four quantum bits and four controlled logic gates to implement every subroutine required, demonstrating the working principle of this algorithm.

id: 1302.4314
title: PT symmetric lattices with a local degree of freedom
authors: Harsha Vemuri, Yogesh N. Joglekar
comments: 4 pages. 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 044101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4314
abstract: Recently, open systems with balanced, spatially separated loss and gain have been realized and studied using non-Hermitian Hamiltonians that are invariant under the combined parity and time-reversal ($\mathcal{PT}$) operations. Here, we model and investigate the effects of a local, two-state, quantum degree of freedom, called a pseudospin, on a one-dimensional tight-binding lattice with position-dependent tunneling amplitudes and a single pair of non-Hermitian, $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric impurities. We show that if the resulting Hamiltonian is invariant under exchange of two pseudospin labels, the system can be decomposed into two uncoupled systems with tunable threshold for $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry breaking. We discuss implications of our results to systems with specific tunneling profiles, and open or periodic boundary conditions.

id: 1302.4349
title: Spin currents in non-inertial frames
authors: Giorgio Papini
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4349
abstract: The covariant Dirac equation and its solutions show that rotation and acceleration can be used to generate and control spin currents.

id: 1302.4446
title: A short note on the concept of free choice
authors: Roger Colbeck, Renato Renner
comments: 1 page, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4446
abstract: We argue that the concepts of "freedom of choice" and of "causal order" are intrinsically linked: a choice is considered "free" if it is correlated only to variables in its causal future. We discuss the implications of this to Bell-type scenarios, where two separate measurements are carried out, neither of which lies in the causal future of the other, and where one typically assumes that the measurement settings are chosen freely. Furthermore, we refute a recent criticism made by Ghirardi and Romano in [arXiv:1301.5040] and [arXiv:1302.1635] that we used an unphysical freedom of choice assumption in our previous works, [Nat. Commun. 2, 411 (2011)] and [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 150402 (2012)].

id: 1302.4459
title: A link between Quantum Entanglement, Secant varieties and Sphericity
authors: Adam Sawicki, Valdemar V. Tsanov
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4459
abstract: In this paper, we shed light on relations between three concepts studied in representations theory, algebraic geometry and quantum information theory. First - spherical actions of reductive groups on projective spaces. Second - secant varieties of homogeneous projective varieties, and the related notions of rank and border rank. Third - quantum entanglement. Our main result concerns the relation between the problem of the state reconstruction from its reduced one-particle density matrices and the minimal number of separable summands in its decomposition. More precisely, we show that sphericity implies that states of a given rank cannot be approximated by states of a lower rank. We call states for which such approximation is possible exceptional states. For three, important from quantum entanglement perspective cases of distinguishable, fermionic and bosonic particles, we also show that non-sphericity implies the existence of exceptional states. Remarkably, the exceptional states belong to non-bipartite entanglement classes. In particular, we show that the $W$-type states and their appropriate modifications are exceptional states stemming from the second secant variety for three cases above. We point out that the existence of the exceptional states is a physical obstruction for deciding the local unitary equivalence of states by means of the one-particle reduced density matrices. Finally, for a number of systems of distinguishable particles with known orbit structure we list all exceptional states and discuss their possible importance in entanglement theory.

id: 1302.4525
title: Unified-entropy trade-off relations for a single quantum channel
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 8 pages, no figures. The title is slightly changes. Minor grammatical improvements are made. The bibliography is updated
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 285301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4525
abstract: Many important properties of quantum channels are quantified by means of entropic functionals. Characteristics of such a kind are closely related to different representations of a quantum channel. In the Jamio{\l}kowski-Choi representation, the given quantum channel is described by the so-called dynamical matrix. Entropies of the rescaled dynamical matrix known as map entropies describe a degree of introduced decoherence. Within the so-called natural representation, the quantum channel is formally posed by another matrix obtained as reshuffling of the dynamical matrix. The corresponding entropies characterize an amount, with which the receiver a priori knows the channel output. As was previously shown, the map and receiver entropies are mutually complementary characteristics. Indeed, there exists a non-trivial lower bound on their sum. First, we extend the concept of receiver entropy to the family of unified entropies. Developing the previous results, we further derive non-trivial lower bounds on the sum of the map and receiver $(q,s)$-entropies. The derivation is essentially based on some inequalities with the Schatten norms and anti-norms.

id: 1302.4528
title: On the existence of quantum signature for quantum messages
authors: Qin Li, Wai Hong Chan, Chunhui Wu, Zhonghua Wen
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4528
abstract: Quantum signature (QS) is used to authenticate the identity of the originator, ensure data integrity and provide non-repudiation service with unconditional security. Depending on whether a trusted third party named arbitrator is involved or not, QS is classified as arbitrated QS and true QS. This paper studies existence problem about the two kinds of QS and contributes to two points: 1) a basic framework is provided to analyze the possibility of arbitrated QS on signing quantum messages; 2) disagreement between the impossibility of true QS and an existing true QS scheme is solved.

id: 1302.4547
title: Spin effects in electron vortex states
authors: Ruben Van Boxem, Jo Verbeeck, Bart Partoens
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: EPL, 102 (2013) 40010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4547
abstract: The recent experimental realization of electron vortex beams opens up a wide research domain previously unexplored. The present paper explores the relativistic properties of these electron vortex beams, and quantifies deviations from scalar wave theory. It is common in electron optics to use the Schr\"odinger equation neglecting spin. The present paper investigates the role of spin and the total angular momentum Jz and how it pertains to the vortex states. As an application, we also investigate if it is possible to use holographic reconstruction to create novel total angular momentum eigenstates in a Transmission Electron Microscope. It is demonstrated that relativistic spin coupling effects disappear in the paraxial limit, and spin effects in holographically created electron vortex beams can only be exploited by using specialized magnetic apertures.

id: 1302.4571
title: Hermitian versus non-Hermitian representations for minimal length uncertainty relations
authors: Sanjib Dey, Andreas Fring, Boubakeur Khantoul
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 335304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4571
abstract: We investigate four different types of representations of deformed canonical variables leading to generalized versions of Heisenberg's uncertainty relations resulting from noncommutative spacetime structures. We demonstrate explicitly how the representations are related to each other and study three characteristically different solvable models on these spaces, the harmonic oscillator, the manifestly non-Hermitian Swanson model and an intrinsically noncommutative model with Poeschl-Teller type potential. We provide an analytical expression for the metric in terms of quantities specific to the generic solution procedure and show that when it is appropriately implemented expectation values are independent of the particular representation. A recently proposed inequivalent representation resulting from Jordan twists is shown to lead to unphysical models. We suggest an anti-PT-symmetric modification to overcome this shortcoming.

id: 1302.4608
title: Readout and control of a single nuclear spin with a meta-stable electron spin ancilla
authors: Sang-Yun Lee, Matthias Widmann, Torsten Rendler, Marcus Doherty, Thomas M. Babinec, Sen Yang, Moritz Eyer, Petr Siyushev, Birgit J. M. Haussmann, Marko Loncar, Zolt¨¢n Bodrog, Adam Gali, Neil Manson, Helmut Fedder, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4608
abstract: Electron and nuclear spins associated with point defects in insulators are promising systems for solid state quantum technology. While the electron spin usually is used for readout and addressing, nuclear spins are exquisite quantum bits and memory systems. With these systems single-shot readout of nearby nuclear spins as well as entanglement aided by the electron spin has been shown. While the electron spin in this example is essential for readout it usually limits nuclear spin coherence. This has set of the quest for defects with spin-free ground states. Here, we isolate a hitherto unidentified defect in diamond and use it at room temperature to demonstrate optical spin polarization and readout with exceptionally high contrast (up to 45%), coherent manipulation of an individual excited triplet state spin, and coherent nuclear spin manipulation using the triplet electron spin as a meta-stable ancilla. By this we demonstrate nuclear magnetic resonance and Rabi oscillations of the uncoupled nuclear spin in the spin-free electronic ground state. Our study demonstrates that nuclei coupled to single metastable electron spins are useful quantum systems with long memory times despite electronic relaxation processes.

id: 1302.4613
title: Sub-Doppler Cavity Cooling Beyond The Lamb-Dicke Limit
authors: Boon Leng Chuah, Nicholas C. Lewty, Radu Cazan, Murray D. Barrett
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Published in Physical Review A: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043420 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4613
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of cavity cooling of a single ion beyond the Lamb-Dicke regime and demonstrate a cooling limit of approximately 50% of the Doppler temperature using a high finesse cavity for the first time. We also study the statistical properties of the ion-cavity emission and present a model that maps the phonon states to the photon states. With this model, we explain the super-Poissonian photon distribution observed in our experiments and propose a method to estimate the ion temperature in a real-time manner based on the statistical behavior of the photon emission from the cavity.

id: 1302.4654
title: Quantum entanglement in finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces
authors: Szil¨¢rd Szalay
comments: Ph.D. dissertation, 162 pages. It covers, it slightly improves, and it presents the material of the papers this http URL, this http URL, this http URL and this http URL in a unified treatment. Apart from those, a review of 40 pages on qualification and quantification of entanglement is given as introduction
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4654
abstract: In the past decades, quantum entanglement has been recognized to be the basic resource in quantum information theory. A fundamental need is then the understanding its qualification and its quantification: Is the quantum state entangled, and if it is, then how much entanglement is carried by that? These questions introduce the topics of separability criteria and entanglement measures, both of which are based on the issue of classification of multipartite entanglement. In this dissertation, after reviewing these three fundamental topics for finite dimensional Hilbert spaces, I present my contribution to knowledge. My main result is the elaboration of the partial separability classification of mixed states of quantum systems composed of arbitrary number of subsystems of Hilbert spaces of arbitrary dimensions. This problem is simple for pure states, however, for mixed states it has not been considered in full detail yet. I give not only the classification but also necessary and sufficient criteria for the classes, which make it possible to determine to which class a mixed state belongs. Moreover, these criteria are given by the vanishing of quantities measuring entanglement. Apart from these, I present some side results related to the entanglement of mixed states. These results are obtained in the learning phase of my studies and give some illustrations and examples.

id: 1302.4669
title: Quantum First-Passage Time: Exact Solutions for a Class of Tight-Binding Hamiltonian Systems
authors: Ranjith V., N.Kumar
comments: (5 pages, revtex4-1, 2column). Few sections re-written to convey better. For comments please visit this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4669
abstract: The Schr\"odinger integral-equation approach for calculating the classical first-passage time (C-fpt) probability density is extended to the case of quantum first-passage time (Q-fpt). Using this extension, we have calculated analytically the Q-fpt probability density for a class of few-site/state tight-binding Hamiltonian systems, e.g., a qubit, as well as for an infinite 1D lattice. The defining feature of such a quantum system is that the passage across the boundary between a subspace (omega) and its complement (omega-bar) is through a unique pair of "door-way" sites such that the first departure from (arrival at) omega corresponds to the first arrival at (departure from) omega-bar. The Q-fpt probability density so derived remains positive over the time interval in which it also normalizes to unity. These conditions of positivity and normalization define the physical time domain for the Q-fpt problem. This time domain is found to remain finite for the few-site/state Hamiltonian systems considered here, which is quite unlike the case for the diffusive C-fpt problems. The door-way sites and the associated Q-fpt probability density derived here should be relevant to inter-biomolecular/nanostructural electron transport phenomena.

id: 1302.4690
title: Optimal coherent control to counteract dissipation
authors: Simeon Sauer, Clemens Gneiting, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 6 pages. Corresponds to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 030405 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4690
abstract: We study to what extent the detrimental impact of dissipation on quantum properties can be compensated by suitable coherent dynamics. To this end, we develop a general method to determine the control Hamiltonian that optimally counteracts a given dissipation mechanism, in order to sustain the desired property, and apply it to two exemplary target properties: the coherence of a decaying two-level system, and the entanglement of two qubits in the presence of local dissipation.

id: 1302.4700
title: Operational Interpretation of the Ratio of Total Correlations to Classical Correlations
authors: Sai Vinjanampathy, A. R. P. Rau
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, minor typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4700
abstract: We will discuss the generalization of entropic uncertainty principles in terms of a game. The game involves k-players, each measuring one of k possible observables. The question is, what is the maximum number of players that can play such that their joint entropic uncertainties are tightened by the presence of non-classical correlations? We answer this question and relate it to the ratio of quantum mutual information to classical correlations. This game hence serves to construct an operational interpretation of the aforementioned ratio. It provides another example of quantum correlations providing a quantum advantage.

id: 1302.4709
title: Inhibition of the dynamical Casimir effect with Robin boundary conditions
authors: Andreson L.C. Rego, B.W. Mintz, C. Farina, Danilo T. Alves
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 045024 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4709
abstract: We consider a real massless scalar field in 3+1 dimensions satisfying a Robin boundary condition at a nonrelativistic moving mirror. Considering vacuum as the initial field state, we compute explicitly the number of particles created per unit frequency and per unit solid angle, exhibiting in this way the angular dependence of the spectral distribution. The well known cases of Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions may be reobtained as particular cases from our results. We show that the particle creation rate can be considerably reduced (with respect to the Dirichlet and Neumann cases) for particular values of the Robin parameter. Our results extend for 3+1 dimensions previous results found in the literature for 1+1 dimensions. Further, we also show that this inhibition of the dynamical Casimir effect occurs for different angles of particle emission.

id: 1302.4730
title: Spatially Addressable Readout and Erasure of an Image in a Gradient Echo Memory
authors: Jeremy B. Clark, Quentin Glorieux, Paul D. Lett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4730
abstract: We show that portions of an image written into a gradient echo memory can be individually retrieved or erased on demand, an important step towards processing a spatially multiplexed quantum signal. Targeted retrieval is achieved by locally addressing the transverse plane of the storage medium, a warm 85Rb vapor, with a far-detuned control beam. Spatially addressable erasure is similarly implemented by imaging a bright beam tuned near the 85Rb D1 line in order to scatter photons and induce decoherence. Under our experimental conditions atomic diffusion is shown to impose an upper bound on the effective spatial capacity of the memory. The decoherence induced by the optical eraser is characterized and modeled as the response of a two level atom in the presence of a strong driving field.

id: 1302.4792
title: Coherence properties of nanofiber-trapped cesium atoms
authors: D. Reitz, C. Sayrin, R. Mitsch, P. Schneeweiss, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 243603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4792
abstract: We experimentally study the ground state coherence properties of cesium atoms in a nanofiber-based two-color dipole trap, localized 200 nm away from the fiber surface. Using microwave radiation to coherently drive the clock transition, we record Ramsey fringes as well as spin echo signals and infer a reversible dephasing time $T_2^\ast=0.6$ ms and an irreversible dephasing time $T_2^\prime=3.7$ ms. By theoretically modelling the signals, we find that, for our experimental parameters, $T_2^\ast$ and $T_2^\prime$ are limited by the finite initial temperature of the atomic ensemble and the heating rate, respectively. Our results represent a fundamental step towards establishing nanofiber-based traps for cold atoms as a building block in an optical fiber quantum network.

id: 1302.4801
title: Proofs of the Kochen-Specker theorem based on the N-qubit Pauli group
authors: Mordecai Waegell, P.K. Aravind
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures and 11 tables. More typos were caught and corrected as the paper went to press
journal: Phys Rev A88, 012102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4801
abstract: We present a number of observables-based proofs of the Kochen-Specker (KS) theorem based on the N-qubit Pauli group for N >= 4, thus adding to the proofs that have been presented earlier for the two- and three-qubit groups. These proofs have the attractive feature that they can be presented in the form of diagrams from which they are obvious by inspection. They are also irreducible in the sense that they cannot be reduced to smaller proofs by ignoring some subset of qubits and/or observables in them. A simple algorithm is given for transforming any observables-based KS proof into a large number of projectors-based KS proofs; if the observables-based proof has O observables, with each observable occurring in exactly two commuting sets and any two commuting sets having at most one observable in common, the number of associated projectors-based parity proofs is 2^O. We introduce symbols for the observables- and projectors-based KS proofs that capture their important features and also convey a feeling for the enormous variety of both these types of proofs within the N-qubit Pauli group. We discuss an infinite family of observables-based proofs, whose members apply to all numbers of qubits from two up, and show how it can be used to generate projectors-based KS proofs involving only nine bases (or experimental contexts) in any dimension of the form 2^N for N >= 2. Some implications of our results are discussed.

id: 1302.4839
title: Securing coherence rephasing with a pair of adiabatic rapid passages
authors: Mar¨ªa Florencia Pascual-Winter, Robert-Christopher Tongning, Thierry Chaneli¨¨re, Jean-Louis Le Gou?t
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 055024
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4839
abstract: Coherence rephasing is an essential step in quantum storage protocols that use echo-based strategies. We present a thorough analysis on how two adiabatic rapid passages (ARP) are able to rephase atomic coherences in an inhomogeneously broadened ensemble. We consider both the cases of optical and spin coherences, rephased by optical or radio-frequency (rf) ARPs, respectively. We show how a rephasing sequence consisting of two ARPs in a double-echo scheme is equivalent to the identity operator (any state can be recovered), as long as certain conditions are fulfilled. Our mathematical treatment of the ARPs leads to a very simple geometrical interpretation within the Bloch sphere that permits a visual comprehension of the rephasing process. We also identify the conditions that ensure the rephasing, finding that the phase of the optical or rf ARP fields plays a key role in the capability of the sequence to preserve the phase of the superposition state. This settles a difference between optical and rf ARPs, since field phase control is not readily guaranteed in the former case. We also provide a quantitative comparison between $\pi$-pulse and ARP rephasing efficiencies, showing the superiority of the latter. We experimentally verify the conclusions of our analysis through rf ARP rephasing sequencies performed on the rare-earth ion-doped crystal Tm$^{3+}$:YAG, of interest in quantum memories.

id: 1302.4891
title: Quantum critical point of spin-boson model and infrared catastrophe in bosonic bath
authors: Hang Zheng, Zhiguo L¨¹
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 138, 174117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4891
abstract: An analytic ground state is proposed for the unbiased spin-boson Hamiltonian, which is non-Gaussian and beyond the Silbey-Harris ground state with lower ground state energy. The infrared catastrophe in Ohmic and sub-Ohmic bosonic bath plays an important role in determining the degeneracy of the ground state. We show that the infrared divergence associated with the displacement of the nonadiabatic modes in bath may be removed from the proposed ground state for the coupling $\alpha<\alpha_c$. Then $\alpha_c$ is the quantum critical point of a transition from non-degenerate to degenerate ground state and our calculated $\alpha_c$ agrees with previous numerical results.

id: 1302.4897
title: Spatial entanglement of bosons in optical lattices
authors: M. Cramer, A. Bernard, N. Fabbri, L. Fallani, C. Fort, S. Rosi, F. Caruso, M. Inguscio, M.B. Plenio
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2161 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4897
abstract: Entanglement is a fundamental resource for quantum information processing, occurring naturally in many-body systems at low temperatures. The presence of entanglement and, in particular, its scaling with the size of system partitions underlies the complexity of quantum many-body states. The quantitative estimation of entanglement in many-body systems represents a major challenge as it requires either full state tomography, scaling exponentially in the system size, or the assumption of unverified system characteristics such as its Hamiltonian or temperature. Here we adopt recently developed approaches for the determination of rigorous lower entanglement bounds from readily accessible measurements and apply them in an experiment of ultracold interacting bosons in optical lattices of approximately $10^5$ sites. We then study the behaviour of spatial entanglement between the sites when crossing the superfluid-Mott insulator transition and when varying temperature. This constitutes the first rigorous experimental large-scale entanglement quantification in a scalable quantum simulator.

id: 1302.4900
title: Compositional Quantum Logic
authors: Bob Coecke, Chris Heunen, Aleks Kissinger
comments: 14 pages
journal: Computation, Logic, Games, and Quantum Foundations: 21-36, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4900
abstract: Quantum logic aims to capture essential quantum mechanical structure in order-theoretic terms. The Achilles' heel of quantum logic is the absence of a canonical description of composite systems, given descriptions of their components. We introduce a framework in which order-theoretic structure comes with a primitive composition operation. The order is extracted from a generalisation of C*-algebra that applies to arbitrary dagger symmetric monoidal categories, which also provide the composition operation. In fact, our construction is entirely compositional, without any additional assumptions on limits or enrichment. Interpreted in the category of finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces, it yields the projection lattices of arbitrary finite-dimensional C*-algebras. Interestingly, there are models that falsify standardly assumed correspondences, most notably the correspondence between noncommutativity of the algebra and nondistributivity of the order.

id: 1302.4909
title: Dynamical transitions in Markovian exciton transport
authors: Hoda Hossein-Nejad, Alexandra Olaya-Castro, Francesca Fassioli, Gregory D. Scholes
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, Accepted for publication in NJP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4909
abstract: The large deviation theory has recently been applied to open quantum systems to uncover dynamical crossovers in the space of quantum trajectories associated to Markovian evolutions. Such dynamical crossovers are characterized by qualitative changes in the fluctuations of rare quantum jump trajectories, and have been observed in the statistics of coherently driven quantum systems. In this article we investigate the counting statistics of rare quantum trajectories of an undriven system undergoing a pure relaxation process, namely, Markovian exciton transport. We find that dynamical crossovers occur in systems with a minimum of three interacting molecules, and are strongly activated by exciton delocalization and interference. Our results illustrate how quantum features of the underlying system Hamiltonian can influence the statistical properties of energy transfer processes in a non-trivial manner.

id: 1302.4923
title: On the Generalized Bloch Precession Equations
authors: Hans-Juergen Stoeckmann, Dirk Dubbers
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4923
abstract: The Bloch equations, which describe spin precession and relaxation in external magnetic fields, can be generalized to include the evolution of polarization tensors of various ranks in arbitrary multipole fields. The derivation of these generalized Bloch equations can be considerably simplified by using a particular bra-ket notation for irreducible tensors.

id: 1302.5052
title: Quantum Measurements Are Noncontextual
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Minor update of previous version, with comments on the BKS theorem added towards the end
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5052
abstract: Quantum measurements are noncontextual, with outcomes independent of which other commuting observables are measured at the same time, when consistently analyzed using principles of Hilbert space quantum mechanics rather than classical hidden variables.

id: 1302.5069
title: Quantum speed limit for non-Markovian dynamics
authors: Sebastian Deffner, Eric Lutz
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; Corrected inconsistency in the derivation; improved bounds
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111 (2013) 010402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5069
abstract: We derive a Margolus-Levitin type bound on the minimal evolution time of an arbitrarily driven open quantum system. We express this quantum speed limit time in terms of the operator norm of the nonunitary generator of the dynamics. We apply these results to the damped Jaynes-Cummings model and demonstrate that the corresponding bound is tight. We further show that non-Markovian effects can speed up quantum evolution and therefore lead to a smaller quantum speed limit time.

id: 1302.5070
title: Exploring the foundations of quantum mechanics using Monte Carlo simulations of the Freedman-Clauser experimental test of Bell's Inequality
authors: Stephen D. Foulkes
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5070
abstract: Monte Carlo simulations of the Freedman-Clauser experiment are used to test the generic wave function collapse model of Quantum Mechanics, a local realistic model, and a dynamical state reduction model of wave function collapse. The simulated results are compared to the actual results of the experiment which confirmed the quantum mechanical calculation for nine different relative angles between the two polarization analyzers. For each simulation $5\times10^7$ total simulated photon pairs were generated at each relative angle. The generic wave function collapse model closely followed the general shape of the theoretical calculation but differed from the calculated values by 2.5% to 3.3% for angles less than or equal to $\pi/8$ and differed by 15.0% to 52.5% for angles greater than or equal to $3\pi/8$. The local realistic model did not replicate the experimental results but was generally within 1% of a classical calculation for all analyzer angles. A dynamical state reduction/collapse model, approximated by using a "smeared" polarization, yielded values within 1% of the quantum mechanical calculation and provides an independent estimate of the correlation length used in these models of $r_c = (1.04 \pm 0.14)\times 10^{-5}$ cm.

id: 1302.5081
title: Quantum error correction via less noisy qubits
authors: Yuichiro Fujiwara
comments: 6 pages, no figure, corrected minor typos, combined main article with supplemental material
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 170501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5081
abstract: Known quantum error correction schemes are typically able to take advantage of only a limited class of classical error-correcting codes. Entanglement-assisted quantum error correction is a partial solution which made it possible to exploit any classical linear codes over the binary or quaternary finite field. However, the known entanglement-assisted scheme requires noiseless qubits that help correct quantum errors on noisy qubits, which can be too severe an assumption. We prove that a more relaxed and realistic assumption is sufficient by presenting encoding and decoding operations assisted by qubits on which quantum errors of one particular kind may occur. As in entanglement assistance, our scheme can import any binary or quaternary linear codes. If the auxiliarly qubits are noiseless, our codes become entanglement-assisted codes, and saturate the quantum Singleton bound when the underlying classical codes are maximum distance separable.

id: 1302.5087
title: Missing data outside the detector range: application to continuous variable entanglement verification and quantum cryptography
authors: Megan R. Ray, S.J. van Enk
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5087
abstract: In continuous-variable quantum information processing detectors are necessarily coarse grained and of finite range. We discuss how especially the latter feature is a bug and may easily lead to overoptimistic estimates of entanglement and of security, when missed data outside the detector range are ignored. We show that entropic separability or security criteria are much superior to variance-based criteria for mitigating the negative effects of this bug.

id: 1302.5103
title: Ground-state OH molecule in combined electric and magnetic fields: Analytic solution of the effective Hamiltonian
authors: M. Bhattacharya, Z. Howard, M. Kleinert
comments: Final version with 1 figure and an explicit discussion of the underlying symmetry. Published as PRA 88, 012503 (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5103
abstract: The OH molecule is currently of great interest from the perspective of ultracold chemistry, quantum fluids, precision measurement and quantum computation. Crucial to these applications are the slowing, guiding, confinement and state control of OH, using electric and magnetic fields. In this article, we show that the corresponding eight-dimensional effective ground state Stark-Zeeman Hamiltonian is exactly solvable and explicitly identify the underlying chiral symmetry. Our analytical solution opens the way to insightful characterization of the magnetoelectrostatic manipulation of ground state OH. Based on our results, we also discuss a possible application to the quantum simulation of an imbalanced Ising magnet.

id: 1302.5135
title: Topology by dissipation
authors: C.-E. Bardyn, M. A. Baranov, C. V. Kraus, E. Rico, A. Imamoglu, P. Zoller, S. Diehl
comments: 61 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5135
abstract: Topological states of fermionic matter can be induced by means of a suitably engineered dissipative dynamics. Dissipation then does not occur as a perturbation, but rather as the main resource for many-body dynamics, providing a targeted cooling into a topological phase starting from an arbitrary initial state. We explore the concept of topological order in this setting, developing and applying a general theoretical framework based on the system density matrix which replaces the wave function appropriate for the discussion of Hamiltonian ground-state physics. We identify key analogies and differences to the more conventional Hamiltonian scenario. Differences mainly arise from the fact that the properties of the spectrum and of the state of the system are not as tightly related as in a Hamiltonian context. We provide a symmetry-based topological classification of bulk steady states and identify the classes that are achievable by means of quasi-local dissipative processes driving into superfluid paired states. We also explore the fate of the bulk-edge correspondence in the dissipative setting, and demonstrate the emergence of Majorana edge modes. We illustrate our findings in one- and two-dimensional models that are experimentally realistic in the context of cold atoms.

id: 1302.5182
title: Synthesis of Topological Quantum Circuits
authors: Alexandru Paler, Simon J. Devitt, Kae Nemoto, Ilia Polian
comments: 7 Pages, 10 Figures, 1 Table
journal: Nanoscale Architectures (NANOARCH), 2012 IEEE/ACM International Symposium on (2012), Page(s): 181- 187
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5182
abstract: Topological quantum computing has recently proven itself to be a very powerful model when considering large- scale, fully error corrected quantum architectures. In addition to its robust nature under hardware errors, it is a software driven method of error corrected computation, with the hardware responsible for only creating a generic quantum resource (the topological lattice). Computation in this scheme is achieved by the geometric manipulation of holes (defects) within the lattice. Interactions between logical qubits (quantum gate operations) are implemented by using particular arrangements of the defects, such as braids and junctions. We demonstrate that junction-based topological quantum gates allow highly regular and structured implementation of large CNOT (controlled-not) gate networks, which ultimately form the basis of the error corrected primitives that must be used for an error corrected algorithm. We present a number of heuristics to optimise the area of the resulting structures and therefore the number of the required hardware resources.

id: 1302.5203
title: Vector magnetic field sensing by single nitrogen vacancy center in diamond
authors: X.-D. Chen, F.-W. Sun, C.-L. Zou, J.-M. Cui, L.-M. Zhou, G.-C. Guo
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: EPL 101, 67003 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5203
abstract: In this Letter, we proposed and experimentally demonstrated a method to detect vector magnetic field with a single nitrogen vacancy (NV) center in diamond. The magnetic field in parallel with the axis of the NV center can be obtained by detecting the electron Zeeman shift, while the Larmor precession of an ancillary nuclear spin close to the NV center can be used to measure the field perpendicular to the axis. Experimentally, both the Zeeman shift and Larmor precession can be measured through the fluorescence from the NV center. By applying additional calibrated magnetic fields, complete information of the vector magnetic field can be achieved with such a method. This vector magnetic field detection method is insensitive to temperature fluctuation and it can be applied to nanoscale magnetic measurement.

id: 1302.5231
title: Fading entanglement near equilibrium state
authors: Gregory B. Furman, Victor M. Meerovich, Vladimir L. Sokolovsky
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 032336 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5231
abstract: It was recently shown that entanglement in quantum systems being in a non-equilibrium state can appear at much higher temperatures than in an equilibrium state. However, any system is subject to the natural relaxation process establishing equilibrium. The work deals with the numerical study of entanglement dynamics in a dipolar coupled spin-1/2 system under the transition from a non-equilibrium state to an equilibrium state. The spin system is characterized by a two-temperature density matrix, and the process of the establishment of equilibrium is in the equalization of these temperatures. The method of the non-equilibrium statistical operator is used to describe the evolution of the system. The process of establishing an equilibrium state in the homonuclear spin systems at low temperature was first considered. It was shown that the time dependences of the inverse temperatures of the spin subsystems are given by a solution of non-linear equations in contrast to the linear equations in the well-known high temperature approximation. It was first studied the entanglement dynamics during the equilibrium state establishment and found that, during establishing equilibrium, the concurrence changes non-monotonically with time and temperatures. Entanglement fades long before equilibrium is established in the system. It was shown that the entanglement dynamics depends strongly on the ratio of the Zeeman energy to the dipolar energy. At a high ratio, the concurrence in the system decreases quickly for time about 100 {\mu}s while, at a low ratio, establishment of equilibrium and fading entanglement take prolonged time up to 1 ms.

id: 1302.5232
title: Quantum entanglement at negative temperature
authors: G.B. Furman, V. M. Meerovich, V.L. Sokolovsky
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 135303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5232
abstract: An isolated spin system that is in internal thermodynamic equilibrium and that has an upper limit to its allowed energy states can possess a negative temperature. We calculate the thermodynamic characteristics and the concurrence in this system over the entire range of positive and negative temperatures. Our calculation was performed for different real structures, which can be used in experiments. It is found that the temperature dependence of the concurrence is substantially asymmetrical similarly other thermodynamic characteristics. At a negative temperature the maximum concurrence and the absolute temperature of the entanglement appearance are sufficiently larger than those at a positive temperature. The concurrence can be characterized by two dimensionless parameters: by the ratio between the Zeeman and dipolar energies and by the ratio of the thermal and dipolar energies. It was shown that for all considered structures the dimensionless temperatures of the transition between entanglement and separability of the first and second spins are independent of spin structure and number of spins.

id: 1302.5238
title: Entanglement in two site Bose-Hubbard model
authors: K. V. S. Shiv Chaitanya, Sibasish Ghosh, V. Srinivasan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5238
abstract: In this paper, we study the decoherence and entanglement properties for the two site Bose-Hubbard model in the presence of a non-linear damping. We apply the techniques of thermo field dynamics and then use Hartree-Fock approximation to solve the corresponding master equation. The expectation values of the approximated field operators appearing in the solution of master equation, are computed self-consistently. We solve this master equation for a small time $t$ so that we get the analytical solution, thereby we compute the decoherence and entanglement properties of the solution of the two-mode bosonic system.

id: 1302.5239
title: Quantum discord for two-qubit CS states: Analytical solution
authors: M. A. Yurishchev
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5239
abstract: We found an universal local unitary (orthogonal) transformation which transforms any centrosymmetric (CS) density matrix \rho_{CS} into the X density matrix \rho_X: H\otimes H\rho_{CS}H\otimes H=\rho_X, where H is the Hadamard transformation. Because quantum discord is invariant under the local unitary transformations, this remarkable property allows to get the discord of general two-qubit CS states in the analytical form using the corresponding well-known formulas for the X states. Examples of systems with CS density matrices provided from the recent literature, including XXZ spin model with the Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction, a gas of spin-carrying particles in closed nanopore, and a family of pseudopure states.

id: 1302.5266
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency in systems with degenerate autoionizing levels in ¦«-configuration
authors: T. Bui Dinh, W. Leo¨½ski, V. Cao Long, J. Pe?ina Jr
comments: Paper accepted for publication in Optica Applicata
journal: Optica Applicata 2013(Vol.43), No.3, pp. 471-484
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5266
abstract: We discuss a \Lambda-like model of atomic levels involving two autoionizing (AI) states of the same energy. The system is irradiated by two external electromagnetic fields (strong -- driving and weak -- probing ones). For such a system containing degenerate AI levels we derive the analytical formula describing the medium susceptibility. We show that the presence of the second AI level lead to the additional electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) window appearance. We show that the characteristic of this window can be manipulated by changes of the parameters describing the interactions of AI levels with other ones. This is a new mechanism which leads to additional transparency windows in EIT model, that differs from the mechanism, where a bigger number of Zeeman sublevels is taken into account.

id: 1302.5281
title: Fundamental bound on the reliability of quantum information transmission
authors: Naresh Sharma, Naqueeb Ahmad Warsi
comments: This paper (6 pages, no figures) is a compact version of arXiv:1205.1712
journal: Physical Review Letters, vol. 110, 080501, Feb. 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5281
abstract: Information theory tells us that if the rate of sending information across a noisy channel were above the capacity of that channel, then the transmission would necessarily be unreliable. For classical information sent over classical or quantum channels, one could, under certain conditions, make a stronger statement that the reliability of the transmission shall decay exponentially to zero with the number of channel uses and the proof of this statement typically relies on a certain fundamental bound on the reliability of the transmission. Such a statement or the bound has never been given for sending quantum information. We give this bound and then use it to give the first example where the reliability of sending quantum information at rates above the capacity decays exponentially to zero. We also show that our framework can be used for proving generalized bounds on the reliability.

id: 1302.5290
title: On the Casimir repulsion in sphere-plate geometry
authors: Irina G. Pirozhenko, Michael Bordag
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5290
abstract: The electromagnetic vacuum energy is considered in the presence of a perfectly conducting plane and a ball with dielectric permittivity $\varepsilon$ and magnetic permeability $\mu$, $\mu\ne1$. The attention is focused on the Casimir repulsion in this system caused by magnetic permeability of the sphere. In the case of perfectly permeable sphere, $\mu=\infty$, the vacuum energy is estimated numerically. The short and long distance asymptotes corresponding to the repulsive force and respective low temperature corrections and high temperature limits are found for a wide range of $\mu$. The constraints on the Casimir repulsion in this system are discussed.

id: 1302.5296
title: Persistence of Hardy's nonlocality in time
authors: Sujit K Choudhary, Sandeep K Goyal, Thomas Konrad, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5296
abstract: Hardy's nonlocality argument, which establishes incompatibility of quantum theory with local-realism, can also be used to reveal the time-nonlocal feature of quantum states. For spin-1/2 systems, the maximum probability of success of this argument is known to be 25%. We show that this maximum remains 25% for all finite-dimensional quantum systems with suitably chosen observables. This enables a test of the quantum properties of macroscopic systems in analogy to the method of Leggett and Garg.

id: 1302.5311
title: Quantum Fisher Information as the Convex Roof of Variance
authors: Sixia Yu
comments: 2 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5311
abstract: Quantum Fisher information places the fundamental limit to the accuracy of estimating an unknown parameter. Here we shall provide the quantum Fisher information an operational meaning: a mixed state can be so prepared that a given observable has the minimal averaged variance, which equals exactly to the quantum Fisher information for estimating an unknown parameter generated by the unitary dynamics with the given observable as Hamiltonian. In particular we shall prove that the quantum Fisher information is the convex roof of the variance, as conjectured by Toth and Petz based on numerical and analytical evidences, by constructing explicitly a pure-state ensemble of the given mixed state in which the averaged variance of a given observable equals to the quantum Fisher information.

id: 1302.5336
title: On equalities in two entropic inequalities
authors: M.E. Shirokov
comments: 23 pages, any comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5336
abstract: A simple criterion for local equality between the constrained Holevo capacity and the quantum mutual information of a quantum channel is obtained. It implies that the set of all states for which this equality holds is determined by the kernel of the channel (as a linear map). Applications to Bosonic Gaussian channels are considered. It is shown that for a Gaussian channel having no completely depolarizing components the above characteristics may coincide only at non-Gaussian mixed states and a criterion of existence of such states is given. All the obtained results may be reformulated as conditions for equality between the constrained Holevo capacity of a quantum channel and the input von Neumann entropy.

id: 1302.5343
title: Observation of the Kibble-Zurek scaling law for defect formation in ion crystals
authors: S. Ulm, J. Ro?nagel, G. Jacob, C. Deg¨¹nther, S.T. Dawkins, U.G. Poschinger, R. Nigmatullin, A. Retzker, M.B. Plenio, F. Schmidt-Kaler, K. Singer
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2290 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5343
abstract: Traversal of a symmetry-breaking phase transition at a finite rate can lead to causallyseparated regions with incompatible symmetries and the formation of defects at their boundaries. The defect formation follows universal scaling laws prescribed by the Kibble-Zurek mechanism (KZM) important to the study of phase transitions in fields as diverse as quantum and statistical mechanics, condensed matter physics and cosmology. Here, we observe the KZM in a crystal of cold trapped ions, which is conducive to the precise control of structural phases and the detection of defects. The experiment confirms a scaling law with an exponent of 2.68 +/- 0.06, as predicted from the KZM in the finite inhomogeneous case. Such precision makes it feasible to use ion crystals for quantitative tests of classical and quantum statistical mechanics.

id: 1302.5364
title: Gravity-related wave function collapse: Is superfluid He exceptional?
authors: Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 9 pp, 1 fig. Invited talk at the international workshop "Horizon of quantum physics: from foundations to quantum enabled technologies" (Taipei, October 14-18, 2012)
journal: Found.Phys. 44 (2014) 483-491
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5364
abstract: The gravity-related model of spontaneous wave function collapse, a longtime hypothesis, damps the massive Schr\"odinger Cat states in quantum theory. We extend the hypothesis and assume that spontaneous wave function collapses are responsible for the emergence of Newton interaction. Superfluid helium would then show significant and testable gravitational anomalies.

id: 1302.5365
title: Gravity-related wave function collapse: mass density resolution
authors: Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 7pp, 1fig. Invited talk at Sixth International Workshop DICE2012 (Castello Pasquini/Castiglioncello/Tuscany, Sept. 17-21, 2012)
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser. 442 (2013) 012001-(7)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5365
abstract: Selected issues of the concept of spontaneous collapse are discussed, with the emphasis on the gravity-related model. We point out that without spontaneous collapses the Schr\"odinger cat states would macroscopically violate the standard conservation laws even in the presence of environmental noise. We prove that the collapse time of condensed matter c.o.m. superpositions is not sensitive to the natural uncertainty of the nuclear locations whereas we formulate the conjecture that superfluid He may show an anomalous low rate of spontaneous collapse compared to common condensed matter.

id: 1302.5385
title: Stochastic coupling in two modes systems: the weak-strong coupling transition
authors: Dagoberto S. Freitas, M. C. Nemes
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053802 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5385
abstract: We investigate the weak-strong coupling transition of two linearly coupled systems under the influence of a phase fluctuating coupling. In the weak coupling regime the exponential decay of quantum properties is well known. A different scenario occurs in the strong coupling regime, the inhibition of the dynamics which tends to "freeze" as the ration between coupling strength and average phase fluctuation time increase. Exciton-polariton oscillations and the self-trapping phenomenon in Bose-Einstein Condensate qualitatively illustrate the weak and strong regimes respectively.

id: 1302.5390
title: The cutoff-dependence of the Casimir force within an inhomogeneous medium
authors: S. A. R. Horsley, W. M. R. Simpson
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5390
abstract: We consider the ground state energy of the electromagnetic field in a piston geometry. In the idealised case, where the piston and the walls of the chamber are taken as perfect mirrors, the Casimir pressure on the piston is finite and independent of the small scale physics of the media that compose the mirrors; the Casimir-energy of the system can be regularised and is cutoff-independent. Yet we find that, when the body of the piston is filled with an inhomogeneous dielectric medium, the Casimir energy is cutoff-dependent, and the value of the pressure is thus inextricably dependent on the detailed behaviour of the mirror and the medium at large wave-vectors. This result is inconsistent with recent proposals for regularising Casimir forces in inhomogeneous media.

id: 1302.5418
title: Failure of the Bell Locality Condition over a Space of Ideal Particles and their Paths
authors: Warren Leffler
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1207.6352
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5418
abstract: We construct a space of ideal elements (particles and their paths) to analyze certain aspects of quantum physics. The particles are taken from a model of particle interaction first described by David Deutsch (based on a different but related framework, that of MWI), and the paths are based on Richard Feynman's path-integral formulation of quantum mechanics. By combining the two systems we develop a new approach to quantum mechanics that eliminates various quantum paradoxes.

id: 1302.5453
title: The Quantum Entropy Cone of Stabiliser States
authors: Noah Linden, Franti?ek Mat¨²?, Mary Beth Ruskai, Andreas Winter
comments: 15 pages, uses lipics.cls (this http URL). V2 is the final TQC 2013 proceedings version, it has numerous corrections, updated references, and a new co-author
journal: in: Proc. 8th TQC Guelph, LIPICS vol. 22, pp. 270-284, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5453
abstract: We investigate the universal linear inequalities that hold for the von Neumann entropies in a multi-party system, prepared in a stabiliser state. We demonstrate here that entropy vectors for stabiliser states satisfy, in addition to the classic inequalities, a type of linear rank inequalities associated with the combinatorial structure of normal subgroups of certain matrix groups. In the 4-party case, there is only one such inequality, the so-called Ingleton inequality. For these systems we show that strong subadditivity, weak monotonicity and Ingleton inequality exactly characterize the entropy cone for stabiliser states.

id: 1302.5459
title: Time-Dependent Gaussian Solution for the Kostin Equation around Classical Trajectories
authors: F. Haas, J. M. F. Bassalo, D. G. da Silva, A. B. Nassar, M. Cattani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5459
abstract: The structure of time-dependent Gaussian solutions for the Kostin equation in dissipative quantum mechanics is analyzed. Expanding the generic external potential near the center of mass of the wave packet, one conclude that: the center of mass follows the dynamics of a classical particle under the external potential and a damping proportional to the velocity; the width of the wave packet satisfy a non-conservative Pinney equation. An appropriate perturbation theory is developed for the free particle case, solving the long standing problem of finding analytic expressions for square integrable solutions of the free Kostin equation. The associated Wigner function is also studied.

id: 1302.5545
title: Many-worlds interpretation of quantum theory, mesoscopic anthropic principle and biological evolution
authors: A.Yu. Kamenshchik, O.V. Teryaev
comments: 34 pages, submitted to NeuroQuantology, Special Issue on Everett's Interpretation. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0705.2494
journal: NeuroQuantology 11, Issue 1, Supp. 1, p. 129-148, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5545
abstract: We suggest to combine the Anthropic Principle with the Many-Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Theory. Realizing the multiplicity of worlds it provides an opportunity of explanation of some important events which are assumed to be extremely improbable. The Mesoscopic Anthropic Principle suggested here is aimed to explain appearance of such events which are necessary for emergence of Life and Mind. It is complementary to the Cosmological Anthropic Principle explaining the fine tuning of fundamental constants. We briefly discuss various possible applications of the Mesoscopic Anthropic Principle including the Solar Eclipses and assembling of complex molecules. Besides, we address the problem of Time's Arrow in the framework of the Many-Worlds Interpretation. We suggest the recipe for disentangling of quantities defined by fundamental physical laws and by an anthropic selection. The main emphasis is made on the problem of the biological evolution.

id: 1302.5552
title: Quantum correlations in predictive processes
authors: Arne L. Grimsmo
comments: 5 pages, 2 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 060302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5552
abstract: We consider the role of quantum correlations in the efficient use of information by a predictive quantum system, generalizing a recently proposed classical measure of non-predictive information to the quantum regime. We show that, as a quantum system changes state, the non-predictive information held by another correlated quantum system is exactly equal to the extractable work that is lost from the second system. We use quantum discord to quantify the quantum contribution, and demonstrate the possibility of improved thermodynamic efficiency due to a negative "quantum part" of the lost work. We also give a thermodynamic interpretation to quantum discord, as the reduction in extractable work under an optimal classical approximation of a quantum memory.

id: 1302.5553
title: Multimode circuit QED with hybrid metamaterial transmission lines
authors: Daniel J. Egger, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 163601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5553
abstract: Quantum transmission lines are a central to superconducting and hybrid quantum computing. Parallel to these developments are those of left-handed meta-materials. They have a wide variety of applications in photonics from the microwave to the visible range such as invisibility cloaks and perfect flat lenses. For classical guided microwaves, left-handed transmission lines have been proposed and studied on the macroscopic scale. We combine these ideas in presenting a left-handed/right-handed hybrid transmission line for applications in quantum optics on a chip. The resulting system allows circuit QED to reach a new regime: multi-mode ultra-strong coupling. Out of the many potential applications of this novel device, we discuss two; the preparation of multipartite entangled states and its use as a quantum simulator for the spin-boson model where a quantum phase transition is reached up to finite size-effects.

id: 1302.5596
title: Quantum equivalence principle without mass superselection
authors: H. Hernandez-Coronado, E. Okon
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377 (2013), p. 2293
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5596
abstract: The standard argument for the validity of Einstein's equivalence principle in a non-relativistic quantum context involves the application of a mass superselection rule. It is surprising that the consistency between such an important principle and quantum mechanics depends crucially on the imposition of a non-fundamental restriction. The objective of this work is show that, contrary to what the standard account holds, the compatibility between the principle of equivalence and quantum mechanics does not depend on the introduction of such a superselection rule. For this purpose, we consider the extended Galileo group, in which mass is treated as an operator, and show that within this scheme superpositions of different masses behave as they should in order to obey the equivalence principle.

id: 1302.5615
title: Bifurcations and exceptional points in dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Robin Gut?hrlein, J?rg Main, Holger Cartarius, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 305001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5615
abstract: Bose-Einstein condensates are described in a mean-field approach by the nonlinear Gross-Pitaevskii equation and exhibit phenomena of nonlinear dynamics. The eigenstates can undergo bifurcations in such a way that two or more eigenvalues and the corresponding wave functions coalesce at critical values of external parameters. E.g. in condensates without long-range interactions a stable and an unstable state are created in a tangent bifurcation when the scattering length of the contact interaction is varied. At the critical point the coalescing states show the properties of an exceptional point. In dipolar condensates fingerprints of a pitchfork bifurcation have been discovered by Rau et al. [Phys. Rev. A, 81:031605(R), 2010]. We present a method to uncover all states participating in a pitchfork bifurcation, and investigate in detail the signatures of exceptional points related to bifurcations in dipolar condensates. For the perturbation by two parameters, viz. the scattering length and a parameter breaking the cylindrical symmetry of the harmonic trap, two cases leading to different characteristic eigenvalue and eigenvector patterns under cyclic variations of the parameters need to be distinguished. The observed structures resemble those of three coalescing eigenfunctions obtained by Demange and Graefe [J. Phys. A, 45:025303, 2012] using perturbation theory for non-Hermitian operators in a linear model. Furthermore, the splitting of the exceptional point under symmetry breaking in either two or three branching singularities is examined. Characteristic features are observed when one, two, or three exceptional points are encircled simultaneously.

id: 1302.5621
title: Realization of Deterministic Quantum Teleportation with Solid State Qubits
authors: L. Steffen, A. Fedorov, M. Oppliger, Y. Salathe, P. Kurpiers, M. Baur, G. Puebla-Hellmann, C. Eichler, A. Wallraff
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nature 500, 319 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5621
abstract: Transferring the state of an information carrier from a sender to a receiver is an essential primitive in both classical and quantum communication and information processing. In a quantum process known as teleportation the unknown state of a quantum bit can be relayed to a distant party using shared entanglement and classical information. Here we present experiments in a solid-state system based on superconducting quantum circuits demonstrating the teleportation of the state of a qubit at the macroscopic scale. In our experiments teleportation is realized deterministically with high efficiency and achieves a high rate of transferred qubit states. This constitutes a significant step towards the realization of repeaters for quantum communication at microwave frequencies and broadens the tool set for quantum information processing with superconducting circuits.

id: 1302.5629
title: Dephasing enhanced transport in nonequilibrium strongly correlated quantum systems
authors: J. J. Mendoza-Arenas, T. Grujic, D. Jaksch, S. R. Clark
comments: 15 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 235130 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5629
abstract: A key insight from recent studies is that noise, such as dephasing, can improve the efficiency of quantum transport by suppressing coherent single-particle interference effects. However, it is not yet clear whether dephasing can enhance transport in an interacting many-body system. Here, we address this question by analyzing the transport properties of a boundary driven spinless fermion chain with nearest-neighbor interactions subject to bulk dephasing. The many-body nonequilibrium stationary state is determined using large-scale matrix product simulations of the corresponding quantum master equation. We find dephasing enhanced transport only in the strongly interacting regime, where it is shown to induce incoherent transitions bridging the gap between bound dark states and bands of mobile eigenstates. The generic nature of the transport enhancement is illustrated by a simple toy model, which contains the basic elements required for its emergence. Surprisingly, the effect is significant even in the linear response regime of the full system, and it is predicted to exist for any large and finite chain. The response of the system to dephasing also establishes a signature of an underlying nonequilibrium phase transition between regimes of transport degradation and enhancement. The existence of this transition is shown not to depend on the integrability of the model considered. As a result, dephasing enhanced transport is expected to persist in more realistic nonequilibrium strongly correlated systems.

id: 1302.5669
title: Asymmetric Quantum Codes: New Codes from Old
authors: Giuliano G. La Guardia
comments: Accepted for publication Quantum Information Processing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5669
abstract: In this paper we extend to asymmetric quantum error-correcting codes (AQECC) the construction methods, namely: puncturing, extending, expanding, direct sum and the (u|u + v) construction. By applying these methods, several families of asymmetric quantum codes can be constructed. Consequently, as an example of application of quantum code expansion developed here, new families of asymmetric quantum codes derived from generalized Reed-Muller (GRM) codes, quadratic residue (QR), Bose-Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem (BCH), character codes and affine-invariant codes are constructed.

id: 1302.5733
title: Obstructions To Classically Simulating The Quantum Adiabatic Algorithm
authors: M. B. Hastings, M. H. Freedman
comments: 18 pages plus appendix. Note on latex compilation: this should compile with pdflatex or with latex followed by dvipdfm, but compiling with latex followed by dvips may cause the figures in the appendix to render incorrectly; v2: added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5733
abstract: We consider the adiabatic quantum algorithm for systems with "no sign problem", such as the transverse field Ising mode, and analyze the equilibration time for quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) on these systems. We ask: if the spectral gap is only inverse polynomially small, will equilibration methods based on slowly changing the Hamiltonian parameters in the QMC simulation succeed in a polynomial time? We show that this is not true, by constructing counter-examples. Some examples are Hamiltonians where the space of configurations where the wavefunction has non-negligible amplitude has a nontrivial fundamental group, causing the space of trajectories in imaginary time to break into disconnected components, with only negligible probability outside these components. For the simplest example we give with an abelian fundamental group, QMC does not equilibrate but still solves the optimization problem. More severe effects leading to failure to solve the optimization can occur when the fundamental group is a free group on two generators. Other examples where QMC fails have a trivial fundamental group, but still use ideas from topology relating group presentations to simplicial complexes. We define gadgets to realize these Hamiltonians as the effective low-energy dynamics of a transverse field Ising model. We present some analytic results on equilibration times which may be of some independent interest in the theory of equilibration of Markov chains. Conversely, we show that a small spectral gap implies slow equilibration at low temperature for some initial conditions and for a natural choice of local QMC updates.

id: 1302.5753
title: Preparation of Schr?dinger cat states of a cavity field via coupling to a superconducting charge qubit
authors: Dagoberto S. Freitas, M. C. Nemes
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1301.6098
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5753
abstract: We extend the approach of Ref. [Yu-xi Liu, L. F. Wei, and F. Nori, Europhys. Lett. 67, 941 (2004)] for preparing superposition states of a cavity field interacting with a superconducting charge qubit. We study effects of the nonlinearity on the creation of such states. We show that the main contribution of nonlinear effects is to shorten the time necessary to build the superposition.

id: 1302.5826
title: A remark on the role of indeterminism and non-locality in the violation of Bell's inequality
authors: Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 342, pp. 133-142 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5826
abstract: Some years ago Aerts et al. presented a macroscopic model in which the amount of non-locality and indeterminism could be continuously varied, and used it to show that by increasing non-locality one increases, as expected, the degree of violation of Bell's inequality (BI), whereas, more surprisingly, by increasing indeterminism one decreases the degree of the violation of BI. In this note we propose a different macroscopic model in which the amount of non-locality and indeterminism can also be parameterized, and therefore varied, and we find that, in accordance with the model of Aerts et al., an increase of non-locality produces a stronger violation of BI. However, differently from their model, we also find that, depending on the initial state in which the system is prepared, an increase of indeterminism can either strengthen or weaken the degree of violation of BI.

id: 1302.5842
title: Basic Concepts in Quantum Information
authors: S. M. Girvin
comments: This manuscript will appear as a chapter in the book `LECTURE NOTES ON STRONG LIGHT-MATTER COUPLING: FROM ATOMS TO SOLID STATE SYSTEMS,' published by World Scientific, Singapore
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5842
abstract: In the last 25 years a new understanding has evolved of the role of information in quantum mechanics. At the same time there has been tremendous progress in atomic/optical physics and condensed matter physics, and particularly at the interface between these two formerly distinct fields, in developing experimental systems whose quantum states are long-lived and which can be engineered to perform quantum information processing tasks. These lecture notes will present a brief introduction to the basic theoretical concepts behind this `second quantum revolution.' These notes will also provide an introduction to `circuit QED.' In addition to being a novel test bed for non-linear quantum optics of microwave electrical circuits which use superconducting qubits as artificial atoms, circuit QED offers an architecture for constructing quantum information processors.

id: 1302.5844
title: Scaling laws for Shor's algorithm with a banded quantum Fourier transform
authors: Y. S. Nam, R. Bl¨¹mel
comments: 45 pages, 11 captioned figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5844
abstract: We investigate the performance of a streamlined version of Shor's algorithm in which the quantum Fourier transform is replaced by a banded version that for each qubit retains only coupling to its $b$ nearest neighbors. Defining the performance $P(n,b)$ of the $n$-qubit algorithm for bandwidth $b$ as the ratio of the success rates of Shor's algorithm equipped with the banded and the full bandwidth ($b=n-1$) versions of the quantum Fourier transform, our numerical simulations show that $P(n,b) \approx \exp[-\varphi_{max}^2 (n,b)/100]$ for $n < n_t(b)$ (non-exponential regime) and $P(n,b) \approx 2^{-\xi_b (n-8)}$ for $n>n_t(b)$ (exponential regime), where $n_{t}(b)$, the location of the transition, is approximately given by $n_{t}(b)\approx b+5.9 + \sqrt{7.7(b+2)-47}$ for $b\gtrsim 8$, $\varphi_{max} (n,b) = 2\pi[2^{-b-1} (n-b-2) + 2^{-n}]$, and $\xi_b\approx 1.1 \times 2^{-2b}$. Analytically we obtain $P(n,b) \approx \exp[-\varphi_{max}^2 (n,b)/64]$ for $n<n_t(b)$ and $P(n,b) \approx 2^{-\xi_b^{(a)} n}$ for $n>n_t(b)$, where $\xi_{b}^{(a)} \approx \frac{\pi^2}{12 \ln(2)} \times 2^{-2b} \approx 1.19 \times 2^{-2b}$. Thus, our analytical results predict the $\varphi_{max}^2$ scaling ($n<n_t$) and the $2^{-2b}$ scaling ($n>n_t$) of the data perfectly. In addition, in the large-$n$ regime, the prefactor in $\xi_b^{(a)}$ is close to the results of our numerical simulations and, in the low-$n$ regime, the numerical scaling factor in our analytical result is within a factor 2 of its numerical value. As an example we show that $b=8$ is sufficient for factoring RSA-2048 with a 95% success rate.

id: 1302.5902
title: An equality between entanglement and uncertainty
authors: Mario Berta, Patrick J. Coles, Stephanie Wehner
comments: v2: published as "Entanglement-assisted guessing of complementary measurement outcomes", 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062127 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5902
abstract: Heisenberg's uncertainty principle implies that if one party (Alice) prepares a system and randomly measures one of two incompatible observables, then another party (Bob) cannot perfectly predict the measurement outcomes. This implication assumes that Bob does not possess an additional system that is entangled to the measured one; indeed the seminal paper of Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR) showed that maximal entanglement allows Bob to perfectly win this guessing game. Although not in contradiction, the observations made by EPR and Heisenberg illustrate two extreme cases of the interplay between entanglement and uncertainty. On the one hand, no entanglement means that Bob's predictions must display some uncertainty. Yet on the other hand, maximal entanglement means that there is no more uncertainty at all. Here we follow an operational approach and give an exact relation - an equality - between the amount of uncertainty as measured by the guessing probability, and the amount of entanglement as measured by the recoverable entanglement fidelity. From this equality we deduce a simple criterion for witnessing bipartite entanglement and a novel entanglement monogamy equality.

id: 1302.5921
title: Two oscillators in a common heat bath
authors: R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Phys.Scr.(2012) 014045
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5921
abstract: We show that the case of two oscillators in a common heat bath cannot be reduced to an effective one body problem. In addition, there is an interaction between the oscillators, even at zero temperature, due to the fluctuations caused in both oscillators by the zero-point oscillations of the electromagnetic field.

id: 1302.5937
title: Unconventional photon blockade in coupled optomechanical systems
authors: Vincenzo Savona
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. After submission, the author became aware that a very similar result has been published in J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 035502 (2013). The manuscript of that work has been available on arXiv.org since April 2012 (arXiv:1204.3279)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5937
abstract: We show that in laser-driven coupled optomechanical systems, photon antibunching can occur under weak optomechanical coupling, contrarily to common expectation. This unconventional photon blockade originates from destructive quantum interference between different excitation pathways bringing from the ground to two-photon states. Using a quantum open-system approach, we study the antibunching as a function of driving field amplitude, temperature, and pure dephasing rate, and derive optimal values of the system parameters for its occurrence. These values are remarkably close to those characterizing optomechanical systems in some current experimental studies.

id: 1302.5986
title: Unambiguous discrimination of extremely similar states by a weak measurement
authors: Chang Qiao, Shengjun Wu, Zeng-Bing Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5986
abstract: In this paper, we propose a method to discriminate two extremely similar quantum states via a weak measurement. For the two states with equal prior probabilities, the optimum discrimination probability given by Ivanovic-Dieks-Peres limit can be achieved by our protocol with an appropriate choice of the interaction strength. However, compared with the conventional method for state discrimination, our approach shows the advantage of error-tolerance by achieving a better ratio of the success probability to the probability of error.

id: 1302.6003
title: Quantum logic and weak values
authors: Riuji Mochizuki
comments: 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6003
abstract: In this study, we study weak values from a quantum-logical viewpoint. In addition, we examine the validity of the counterfactual statements of Hardy's paradox, which are based on weak values, and we show that these statements have not been validated. It is also shown that strange weak values may only appear if they are not (conditional) probabilities. PACS numbers: 03.65.Ta, 03.65.Ud, 03.65.Ca

id: 1302.6005
title: Non-classical Correlations in the Quantum Search Algorithm
authors: Shantanav Chakraborty, Satyabrata Adhikari
comments: 7 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6005
abstract: Entanglement lies at the heart of quantum mechanics and has no classical analogue. It is central to the speed up achieved by quantum algorithms over their classical counterparts. The Grover's search algorithm is one such algorithm which enables us to achieve a quadratic speed up over any known classical algorithm that searches for an element in an unstructured database. Here, we analyse and quantify the effects of entanglement in the generalized version of this algorithm for two qubits. By 'generalized', it is meant that the use of any arbitrary single qubit unitary gate is permitted to create superposed states. Our analysis has been firstly on a noise free environment and secondly in the presence of noise. In the absence of noise, we establish a relation between the concurrence and the amplitude of the final state thereby showing the explicit effects of entanglement on the same. Moreover, the effects of noisy channels, namely amplitude and phase damping channels are studied. We investigate the amount of quantum correlation in the states obtained after the phase inversion stage of the algorithm followed by interaction of those states with the noisy environment. The quantum correlations are quantified by geometric discord. It has been revealed that the states generated after the effect of amplitude damping on the phase inverted states of the quantum search algorithm possess non-zero quantum correlation even when entanglement is absent. However, this is absent in the phase damping scenario.

id: 1302.6134
title: Bell violation for unknown continuous-variable states
authors: X.-F. Qian, C.J. Broadbent, J.H. Eberly
comments: 8 pages, published version
journal: New Journal of Physics 16 (2014) 013033
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6134
abstract: We describe a new Bell test for two-particle entangled systems that engages an unbounded continuous variable. The continuous variable state is allowed to be arbitrary and inaccessible to direct measurements. A systematic method is introduced to perform the required measurements indirectly. Our results provide new perspectives on both the study of local realistic theory for continuous-variable systems and on the nonlocal control theory of quantum information.

id: 1302.6139
title: Field Fluctuations in a One-Dimensional Cavity with a Mobile Wall
authors: Salvatore Butera, Roberto Passante
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 060403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6139
abstract: We consider a scalar field in a one-dimensional cavity with a mobile wall. The wall is assumed bounded by a harmonic potential and its mechanical degrees of freedom are treated quantum mechanically. The possible motion of the wall makes the cavity length variable, and yields a wall-field interaction and an effective interaction among the modes of the cavity. We consider the ground state of the coupled system and calculate the average number of virtual excitations of the cavity modes induced by the wall-field interaction, as well as the average value of the field energy density. We compare our results with analogous quantities for a cavity with fixed walls, and show a correction to the Casimir potential energy between the cavity walls. We also find a change of the field energy density in the cavity, particularly relevant in the proximity of the mobile wall, yielding a correction to the Casimir-Polder interaction with a polarizable body placed inside the cavity. Similarities and differences of our results with the dynamical Casimir effect are also discussed.

id: 1302.6159
title: Is a rational explanation of wave-particle duality possible?
authors: S.A. Rashkovskiy
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6159
abstract: Wave-particle duality is one of the fundamental properties of matter and at the same time, one of the mysteries of modern physics. In this paper, we propose and analyze a new interpretation of the wave-particle duality, and propose a new rule that relates the corpuscular and wave properties of quantum particles, and replaces the Born's rule. We introduce a new representation about quantum particles as temporary objects that are born permanently in a wave field and spontaneously decayed due to their "instability". Thus, we fill with the physical meaning the standard notions of "creation" and "annihilation" of the particles, used in the second quantization formalism. We show that the traditional probabilistic interpretation of quantum mechanics in the form of the Born's rule is an approximate consequence of the proposed theory. The proposed theory allows explaining the indistinguishability of quantum particles and shows meaninglessness of the concept of their trajectories. We give an explanation of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle within the limits of this theory in terms of classical physics that allows us to return to an objective understanding of the measurement process and do not consider it as a compulsory part of the physical process.

id: 1302.6163
title: Quantized magnetic flux through the orbits of hydrogen-like atoms within the atomic model of Sommerfeld
authors: W.-D. R. Stein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6163
abstract: Within the Sommerfeld atomic model the quantization of magnetic flux through the electronic orbits is investigated together with its dependency on additional sources of magnetic fields. These sources alter the magnetic flux through the atomic orbits and in consequence are causing energy shifts. This effect is investigated for the cases, where the source is an external magnetic field, the magnetic moment of the nucleus or the magnetic moment of the electron. The energy shifts due to external magnetic fields, the magnetic dipole contribution of the hyperfine splitting and the spin-orbit coupling can be reproduced very well. The meaning of 'spin', however, changes within this approach drastically. The unusual Land\'e g-factor of 2 for the electron is a result of the orbital motion and the magnetic moment of the electron rather than it is an intrinsic property of the electron.

id: 1302.6179
title: Squeezing of light via reflection from a silicon micromechanical resonator
authors: Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Simon Groeblacher, Jeff T. Hill, Jasper Chan, Markus Aspelmeyer, Oskar Painter
comments: 24 pages, 18 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6179
abstract: We present the measurement of squeezed light generation using an engineered optomechanical system fabricated from a silicon microchip and composed of a micromechanical resonator coupled to a nanophotonic cavity. Laser light is used to measure the fluctuations in the position of the mechanical resonator at a measurement rate comparable to the free dynamics of the mechanical resonator, and greater than its thermal decoherence rate. By approaching the strong continuous measurement regime we observe, through homodyne detection, non-trivial modifications of the reflected light's vacuum fluctuation spectrum. In spite of the mechanical resonator's highly excited thermal state ($10,000$ phonons), we observe squeezing at the level of $4.5 \pm 0.5%$ below that of shot-noise over a few MHz bandwidth around the mechanical resonance frequency of 28 MHz. This squeezing is interpreted as an unambiguous quantum signature of radiation pressure shot-noise.

id: 1302.6208
title: Microwave control of atomic motional states in a spin-dependent optical lattice
authors: Noomen Belmechri, Leonid F?rster, Wolfgang Alt, Artur Widera, Dieter Meschede, Andrea Alberti
comments: 22 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6208
abstract: Spin-dependent optical potentials allow us to use microwave radiation to manipulate the motional state of trapped neutral atoms (F\"orster et al. 2009 Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 233001). Here, we discuss this method in greater detail, comparing it to the widely-employed Raman sideband coupling method. We provide a simplified model for sideband cooling in a spin-dependent potential, and we discuss it in terms of the generalized Lamb-Dicke parameter. Using a master equation formalism, we present a quantitative analysis of the cooling performance for our experiment, which can be generalized to other experimental settings. We additionally use microwave sideband transitions to engineer motional Fock states and coherent states, and we devise a technique for measuring the population distribution of the prepared states.

id: 1302.6218
title: Feshbach projection formalism for open quantum systems
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 5 pages; minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 050402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6218
abstract: We provide a new approach to open quantum systems which is based on the Feshbach projection method in an appropriate Hilbert space. Instead of looking for a master equation for the dynamical map acting in the space of density operators we provide the corresponding equation for the evolution in the Hilbert space of the system. Its solution enables one to construct a legitimate quantum evolution (completely positive and trace preserving). The big advantage of this approach is the ability of performing a consistent approximation which creates notorious problems in the standard Nakajima-Zwanzig approach. The new scheme is illustrated by well known spin-boson model beyond rotating wave approximation.

id: 1302.6223
title: Bounding temporal quantum correlations
authors: Costantino Budroni, Tobias Moroder, Matthias Kleinmann, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 020403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6223
abstract: Sequential measurements on a single particle play an important role in fundamental tests of quantum mechanics. We provide a general method to analyze temporal quantum correlations, which allows us to compute the maximal correlations for sequential measurements in quantum mechanics. As an application, we present the full characterization of temporal correlations in the simplest Leggett-Garg scenario and in the sequential measurement scenario associated with the most fundamental proof of the Kochen-Specker theorem.

id: 1302.6245
title: Quantum Computation of Prime Number Functions
authors: Jose I. Latorre, German Sierra
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, one reference and additional comments concerning the Twin Prime state and the Goldbach conjecture added
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 14, 0577 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Number Theory (math.NT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6245
abstract: We propose a quantum circuit that creates a pure state corresponding to the quantum superposition of all prime numbers less than 2^n, where n is the number of qubits of the register. This Prime state can be built using Grover's algorithm, whose oracle is a quantum implementation of the classical Miller-Rabin primality test. The Prime state is highly entangled, and its entanglement measures encode number theoretical functions such as the distribution of twin primes or the Chebyshev bias. This algorithm can be further combined with the quantum Fourier transform to yield an estimate of the prime counting function, more efficiently than any classical algorithm and with an error below the bound that allows for the verification of the Riemann hypothesis. We also propose a Twin Prime state to measure the number of twin primes and another state to test the Goldbach conjecture. Arithmetic properties of prime numbers are then, in principle, amenable to experimental verifications on quantum systems.

id: 1302.6251
title: Frustration, Entanglement, and Correlations in Quantum Many Body Systems
authors: U. Marzolino, S. M. Giampaolo, F. Illuminati
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 020301(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6251
abstract: We derive an exact lower bound to a universal measure of frustration in degenerate ground states of quantum many-body systems. The bound results in the sum of two contributions: entanglement and classical correlations arising from local measurements. We show that average frustration properties are completely determined by the behavior of the maximally mixed ground state. We identify sufficient conditions for a quantum spin system to saturate the bound, and for models with twofold degeneracy we prove that average and local frustration coincide.

id: 1302.6262
title: The depolarising channel and Horns problem
authors: Janis Noetzel
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6262
abstract: We investigate the action of the depolarising (qubit) channel on permutation invariant input states. More specifically, we raise the question on which invariant subspaces the output of the depolarising channel, given such special input, is supported. An answer is given for equidistributed states on isotypical subspaces, also called symmetric Werner states. Horns problem and two of the corresponding inequalities are invoked as a method of proof.

id: 1302.6278
title: On the completeness of quantum mechanics and the interpretation of the state vector
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Raffaele Romano
comments: 15 pages, comments are welcome
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 442, 012002 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6278
abstract: Recently, it has been argued that quantum mechanics is complete, and that quantum states vectors are necessarily in one-to-one correspondence with the elements of reality, under the assumptions that quantum theory is correct and that measurement settings can be freely chosen. In this work, we argue that the adopted form of the free choice assumption is stronger than needed. We unveil hidden assumptions underlying these results, which limit their range of validity. We support our argument by a model for the bipartite two-level system, reproducing quantum mechanics, in which the free will assumption is respected, and different quantum states can be connected to the same state of reality.

id: 1302.6284
title: Simulating open quantum systems by applying SU(4) to quantum master equations
authors: Minghui Xu, D. A. Tieri, M. J. Holland
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6284
abstract: We show that open quantum systems of two-level atoms symmetrically coupled to a single-mode photon field can be efficiently simulated by applying a SU(4) group theory to quantum master equations. This is important since many foundational examples in quantum optics fall into this class. We demonstrate the method by finding exact solutions for many-atom open quantum systems such as lasing and steady state superradiance.

id: 1302.6366
title: Long-lived quantum coherence of two-level spontaneous emission models within structured environments
authors: Ping Zhang, Bo You, Li-Xiang Cen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, accepted by Opt. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6366
abstract: We investigate the long-lived quantum coherence of two-level spontaneous emission models within structured environments. The population of the system under the asymptotic non-Markovian dynamics is linked to the spectral density of the reservoir through a general functional relation between them. We figure out explicitly the preservation of quantum coherence, via notions of entanglement and quantum discord, in connection with the spectral parameters of Ohmic class reservoirs and then show how to achieve them optimally. We expect these results to contribute towards reservoir engineering with the aim of enhancing stationary quantum coherence in noisy environments.

id: 1302.6389
title: Symmetric quantum dots as efficient sources of highly entangled photons
authors: T. Kuroda, T. Mano, N. Ha, H. Nakajima, H. Kumano, B. Urbaszek, M. Jo, M. Abbarachi, Y. Sakuma, K. Sakoda, I. Suemune, X. Marie, T. Amand
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, revtex4-1
journal: Phys.Rev.B 88, 041306(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6389
abstract: An ideal source of entangled photon pairs combines the perfect symmetry of an atom with the convenient electrical trigger of light sources based on semiconductor quantum dots. We create a naturally symmetric quantum dot cascade that emits highly entangled photon pairs on demand. Our source consists of strain-free GaAs dots self-assembled on a triangular symmetric (111)A surface. The emitted photons strongly violate Bell's inequality and reveal a fidelity to the Bell state as high as 86 (+-2) % without postselection. This result is an important step towards scalable quantum-communication applications with efficient sources.

id: 1302.6450
title: Optimal correction of independent and correlated errors
authors: Sol H. Jacobsen, Florian Mintert
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures. Updated to include fidelity analysis
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 045306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6450
abstract: We identify optimal quantum error correction codes for situations that do not admit perfect correction. We provide analytic n-qubit results for standard cases with correlated errors on multiple qubits and demonstrate significant improvements to the fidelity bounds and optimal entanglement decay profiles.

id: 1302.6541
title: Ultra-short strong excitation of two-level systems
authors: Pankaj K. Jha, Hichem Eleuch, Fabio Grazioso
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures this version is a rewriting of the previous one, with several changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6541
abstract: We present a model describing the use of ultra-short strong pulses to control the population of the excited level of a two-level quantum system. In particular, we study an off-resonance excitation with a few cycles pulse which presents a smooth phase jump i.e. a change of the pulse's phase which is not step-like, but happens over a finite time interval. A numerical solution is given for the time-dependent probability amplitude of the excited level. The control of the excited level's population is obtained acting on the shape of the phase transient, and other parameters of the excitation pulse.

id: 1302.6555
title: Non-Hermitian Quantum Annealing in the Antiferromagnetic Ising Chain
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, Gennady P. Berman, Juan C. Beas Zepeda, Alan R. Bishop
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1211.3178
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 13, 371-379 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6555
abstract: A non-Hermitian quantum optimization algorithm is created and used to find the ground state of an antiferromagnetic Ising chain. We demonstrate analytically and numerically (for up to N=1024 spins) that our approach leads to a significant reduction of the annealing time that is proportional to $\ln N$, which is much less than the time (proportional to $N^2$) required for the quantum annealing based on the corresponding Hermitian algorithm. We propose to use this approach to achieve similar speed-up for NP-complete problems by using classical computers in combination with quantum algorithms.

id: 1302.6565
title: Analyzing Toffoli Gate in Disordered Circuit QED
authors: J. Khatibi Moqadam, Renato Portugal, N. F. Svaiter, G. O. Corr¨ºa
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042324 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6565
abstract: We study the effects of imperfections on the fidelity of the Toffoli gate recently realized in a circuit QED setup. The noise is introduced to the interqubits interactions hence the couplings no longer remain constant but belong to the interval [1-d,1+d]J, where J is the average coupling constant and parameter d quantifies the noise level. We consider both static and dynamical imperfections. We also obtain a more robust gate by solving the quantum optimization problem with a modified objective functional including an interval of coupling values rather than a single ideal value.

id: 1302.6638
title: All-optical control of a solid-state spin using coherent dark states
authors: Christopher G. Yale, Bob B. Buckley, David J. Christle, Guido Burkard, F. Joseph Heremans, Lee C. Bassett, David D. Awschalom
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures with an additional 25 pages of supporting material with 14 figures
journal: Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 110, 7595 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6638
abstract: The study of individual quantum systems in solids, for use as quantum bits (qubits) and probes of decoherence, requires protocols for their initialization, unitary manipulation, and readout. In many solid-state quantum systems, these operations rely on disparate techniques that can vary widely depending on the particular qubit structure. One such qubit, the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center spin in diamond, can be initialized and read out through its special spin selective intersystem crossing, while microwave electron spin resonance (ESR) techniques provide unitary spin rotations. Instead, we demonstrate an alternative, fully optical approach to these control protocols in an NV center that does not rely on its intersystem crossing. By tuning an NV center to an excited-state spin anticrossing at cryogenic temperatures, we use coherent population trapping and stimulated Raman techniques to realize initialization, readout, and unitary manipulation of a single spin. Each of these techniques can be directly performed along any arbitrarily-chosen quantum basis, removing the need for extra control steps to map the spin to and from a preferred basis. Combining these protocols, we perform measurements of the NV center's spin coherence, a demonstration of this full optical control. Consisting solely of optical pulses, these techniques enable control within a smaller footprint and within photonic networks. Likewise, this approach obviates the need for both ESR manipulation and spin addressability through the intersystem crossing. This method could therefore be applied to a wide range of potential solid-state qubits, including those which currently lack a means to be addressed.

id: 1302.6673
title: Geometrical characterization of non-Markovianity
authors: S. Lorenzo, F. Plastina, M. Paternostro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6673
abstract: We introduce a new tool for the quantitative characterisation of the departure form Markovianity of a given dynamical process. Our tool can be applied to a generic $N$-level system and extended straightforwardly to Gaussian continuous-variable systems. It is linked to the change of the volume of physical states that are dynamically accessible to a system and provides qualitative expectations in agreement with some of the analogous tools proposed so far. We illustrate its prediticve power by tackling a few canonical examples.

id: 1302.6698
title: Compact Bell inequalities for multipartite experiments
authors: Yu-Chun Wu, Marek ?ukowski, Jing-Ling Chen, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages; The title is changed; an author added; rewritten
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6698
abstract: A method for construction of the multipartite Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) type Bell inequalities, for the case of local binary observables, is presented. The standard CHSH-type Bell inequalities can be obtained as special cases. A unified framework to establish all kinds of CHSH-type Bell inequalities by increasing step by step the number of observers is given. As an application, compact Bell inequalities, for eight observers, involving just four correlation functions are proposed. They require much less experimental effort than standard methods and thus is experimentally friendly in multi-photon experiments.

id: 1302.6701
title: Fluctuation-electromagnetic interaction of a small particle with evanescent modes of the surface: impact of translational motion and rotation
authors: A.A. Kyasov, G.V. Dedkov
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6701
abstract: Based on the fluctuation-electromagnetic theory, we have calculated tangential (frictional) and normal forces, radiation heat flux and frictional torque on a small rotating particle moving at a nonrelativistic velocity close to a smooth featureless surface. The particle and surface are characterized by different temperatures corresponding to the local thermodynamic equilibrium in their own reference frames.

id: 1302.6740
title: Spectral description of fluctuating electromagnetic fields of solids including a self consistency
authors: Illarion Dorofeyev
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, 2013, v.377, pp.2457-2464
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6740
abstract: Another way to evaluate the spectral-correlation properties of thermal fields of solids is suggested. Such a method takes into account detailed structure of the interface transition layer separating one bulk region from those of the vacuum region. The principal element here is the surface linear response function of an arbitrary inhomogeneous electron subsystem of solids. Along with straightforward using the known response functions, for example in a hydrodynamic approach, the suggested method allows calculating the response functions self-consistently based on the time dependent density functional theory. The self-consistent calculation of the linear response function followed by an application of the fluctuation-dissipation theorem yield in the spectral power densities of the fluctuating charge and current correlation functions. The final step of this sequence of actions aiming in obtaining the spectral-correlation properties of thermal fields of solids at any distances.

id: 1302.6893
title: Characterizing entanglement in pulsed parametric downconversion using chronocyclic Wigner functions
authors: Benjamin Brecht, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053810 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6893
abstract: Pulsed parametric downconversion (PDC) processes generate photon pairs with a rich spectral-temporal structure, which offer an attractive potential for quantum information and communication applications. In this paper, we investigate the four-dimensional chronocyclic Wigner function of the PDC state, which naturally lends itself to the pulsed characteristics of these states. From this function we derive the conditioned time-bandwidth product of one of the pair photons, a quantity which is not only a valid measure of entanglement between the PDC photons but also allows to highlight a remarkable link between the discrete and continuous variable descriptions of PDC. We numerically analyze PDC processes with different conditions to demonstrate the versatility of our approach, which is applicable to a large number of current PDC sources.

id: 1302.6990
title: Stabilizer information inequalities from phase space distributions
authors: David Gross, Michael Walter
comments: 8 pages. See closely related work arXiv:1302.5453. v3: added appendix on discrete phase spaces
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54 , 082201 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6990
abstract: The Shannon entropy of a collection of random variables is subject to a number of constraints, the best-known examples being monotonicity and strong subadditivity. It remains an open question to decide which of these "laws of information theory" are also respected by the von Neumann entropy of many-body quantum states. In this article, we consider a toy version of this difficult problem by analyzing the von Neumann entropy of stabilizer states. We find that the von Neumann entropy of stabilizer states satisfies all balanced information inequalities that hold in the classical case. Our argument is built on the fact that stabilizer states have a classical model, provided by the discrete Wigner function: The phase-space entropy of the Wigner function corresponds directly to the von Neumann entropy of the state, which allows us to reduce to the classical case. Our result has a natural counterpart for multi-mode Gaussian states, which sheds some light on the general properties of the construction. We also discuss the relation of our results to recent work by Linden, Ruskai, and Winter.

id: 1302.7020
title: Catch-Disperse-Release Readout for Superconducting Qubits
authors: Eyob A. Sete, Andrei Galiautdinov, Eric Mlinar, John M. Martinis, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 210501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7020
abstract: We analyze a single-shot readout for superconducting qubits via the controlled catch, dispersion, and release of a microwave field. A tunable coupler is used to decouple the microwave resonator from the transmission line during the dispersive qubit-resonator interaction, thus circumventing damping from the Purcell effect. We show that if the qubit frequency tuning is sufficiently adiabatic, a fast high-fidelity qubit readout is possible, even in the strongly nonlinear dispersive regime. Interestingly, the Jaynes-Cummings nonlinearity leads to the quadrature squeezing of the resonator field below the standard quantum limit, resulting in a significant decrease of the measurement error.

id: 1302.7034
title: Geometric quantum discord through the Schatten 1-norm
authors: F. M. Paula, Thiago. R. de Oliveira, M. S. Sarandy
comments: v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 064101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7034
abstract: It has recently been pointed out that the geometric quantum discord, as defined by the Hilbert-Schmidt norm (2-norm), is not a good measure of quantum correlations, since it may increase under local reversible operations on the unmeasured subsystem. Here, we revisit the geometric discord by considering general Schatten p-norms, explicitly showing that the 1-norm is the only p-norm able to define a consistent quantum correlation measure. In addition, by restricting the optimization to the tetrahedron of two-qubit Bell-diagonal states, we provide an analytical expression for the 1-norm geometric discord, which turns out to be equivalent to the negativity of quantumness. We illustrate the measure by analyzing its monotonicity properties.

id: 1302.7060
title: Efficient graph state generation and artificial error detection
authors: Qing Lin, Bing He
comments: 5 figures, accepted version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 055502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7060
abstract: How to generate photonic cluster state or graph state efficiently is the main problem in optical measurement-based quantum computation. Assisted by the cross phase modulation technique, we propose an efficient scheme to realize the cascade CZ operation, which could be used to generate universal cluster state, with the controlled-path gate as element operation. Especially, for the wheel cluster state, the generation processes are obviously simpler than the former approaches. Moreover, we consider the artificial error that one forgot to operate one or some single photons during the generation processes cross-type, star-type graph state. This error likely occurs in the large scale of graph state generation with one-by-one pattern and is firstly considered in this paper. With the present approach, it is possible to judge whether all the involved single photons are connected as desired or not, i.e., detect the artificial error with the success probability 1/2.

id: 1302.7065
title: Efficient and flexible generation of entangled qudits with cross phase modulation
authors: Xin Lu Ye, Qing Lin
comments: 2 figures, accepted version
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 29, 1810 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7065
abstract: In this paper, we provide a simple but powerful module to generate entangled qudits. This module assisted with cross-Kerr nonlinearity is available to the entangled qudits generation with arbitrary dimension, and it could work well even when the two independent qudits lose the same number of single photons. Moreover, with the cascade uses of modules, the deterministic generation but with nonidentical forms of entangled qudits is possible.

id: 1302.7068
title: Heralded generation of symmetric and asymmetric entangled qudits with weak cross-Kerr nonlinearity
authors: Qing Lin
comments: 3 figures, accepted version
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 30, 576 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7068
abstract: High dimensional entangled states have attracted much more attentions, due to their strong nonlocality and much powerful capability for quantum information processing. By the methods presented in this paper, arbitrary forms entangled qudits including symmetric and asymmetric forms could be generated with the weak cross-Kerr nonlinearity. These schemes are heralded by the detections of single-photon detectors. If all the detectors do not register any single photons, the generation is success with the probability $1/n^{M}$ determined by dimension $n$ and partite $M$. Furthermore, these schemes work well even with the common photon number nonresolving detectors, therefore they are feasible with the current experimental technology.

id: 1302.7087
title: Deterministic macroscopic quantum superpositions of motion via quadratic optomechanical coupling
authors: Huatang Tan, F. Bariani, Gaoxiang Li, P. Meystre
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7087
abstract: We propose a scheme to prepare macroscopic quantum superpositions of motion in optomachanical nano- or micromechanical oscillators quadratically coupled to an intracavity field. The nonlinear optomechanical coupling leads to an effective degenerate three-wave mixing interaction between the mechanical and cavity modes. The quantum superpositions result from the combined effects of the interaction and cavity dissipation. We show analytically and confirm numerically that various deterministic quantum superpositions can be achieved, depending on initial mechanical state. The effect of mechanical damping is also studied in detail via the negativity of the Wigner function. The present scheme can be realized in various optomechanical systems with current technology.

id: 1302.7165
title: Correlations in emitters coupled to plasmonic waveguides
authors: Cristian E. Susa, John H. Reina, Luis L. S¨¢nchez-Soto
comments: Published version is in double column and has 7 pp, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 224022
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7165
abstract: We report on quantum, classical, and total correlations in a set of distant quantum emitters coupled via their interaction with the plasmon modes of a one-dimensional waveguide driven by an external laser field. The coupling of the emitters with the plasmonic modes and its influence on the collective decay rate suggest that entanglement does not play a significant role in the qubit dynamics. Rather, discord is the quantity that matters and should be harnessed as a resource.

id: 1302.7185
title: A Generalization of Fermat's Principle for Classical and Quantum Systems
authors: Tarek A. Elsayed
comments: Revised edition; accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A 378, 3205 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7185
abstract: The analogy between dynamics and optics had a great influence on the development of the foundations of classical and quantum mechanics. We take this analogy one step further and investigate the validity of Fermat's principle in many-dimensional spaces describing dynamical systems (i.e., the quantum Hilbert space and the classical phase and configuration space). We propose that if the notion of a metric distance is well defined in that space and the velocity of the representative point of the system is an invariant of motion, then a generalized version of Fermat's principle will hold. We substantiate this conjecture for time-independent quantum systems and for a classical system consisting of coupled harmonic oscillators. An exception to this principle is the configuration space of a charged particle in a constant magnetic field; in this case the principle is valid in a frame rotating by half the Larmor frequency, not the stationary lab frame.

id: 1302.7188
title: Non-separability does not relieve the problem of Bell's theorem
authors: Joe Henson
comments: 26 pages main body, 33 total. v2: several references and comments added, many minor revisions made, appendix B significantly revised
journal: Foundations of Physics: Volume 43, Issue 8 (2013), Page 1008-1038
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7188
abstract: This paper addresses arguments that "separability" is an assumption of Bell's theorem, and that abandoning this assumption in our interpretation of quantum mechanics (a position sometimes referred to as "holism") will allow us to restore a satisfying locality principle. Separability here means that all events associated to the union of some set of disjoint regions are combinations of events associated to each region taken separately. In this article, it is shown that: (a) localised events can be consistently defined without implying separability; (b) the definition of Bell's locality condition does not rely on separability in any way; (c) the proof of Bell's theorem does not use separability as an assumption. If, inspired by considerations of non-separability, the assumptions of Bell's theorem are weakened, what remains no longer embodies the locality principle. Teller's argument for "relational holism" and Howard's arguments concerning separability are criticised in the light of these results. Howard's claim that Einstein grounded his arguments on the incompleteness of QM with a separability assumption is also challenged. Instead, Einstein is better interpreted as referring merely to the existence of localised events. Finally, it is argued that Bell rejected the idea that separability is an assumption of his theorem.

id: 1302.7206
title: Quantum Key Distribution With several intercept-resend attacks Via A Depolarizing Channel
authors: Mustapha Dehmani, Mohamed Errahmani, Hamid Ez-Zahraouy, Abdelilah Benyoussef
comments: 
journal: Physica Scripta 86(2012) 015803
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7206
abstract: The disturbance effect of a depolarizing channel on the security of the quantum key distribution of the four state BB84 protocol with multiple sequentiel intercept and resend attacks of many eavesdroppers, has been studied. The quantum bit error rate and the mutual information are computed for arbitray number of attacks.

id: 1302.7224
title: Phase Stabilization of a Frequency Comb using Multipulse Quantum Interferometry
authors: Andrea Cadarso, Jordi Mur-Petit, Juan Jos¨¦ Garc¨ªa-Ripoll
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 073603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7224
abstract: From the interaction between a frequency comb and an atomic qubit, we derive quantum protocols for the determination of the carrier-envelope offset phase, using the qubit coherence as a reference, and without the need of frequency doubling or an octave spanning comb. Compared with a trivial interference protocol, the multipulse protocol results in a polynomial enhancement of the sensitivity O(N^{-2}) with the number N of laser pulses involved. We present specializations of the protocols using optical or hyperfine qubits, Lambda-schemes and Raman transitions, and introduce methods where the reference is another phase-stable cw-laser or frequency comb.

id: 1302.7256
title: Continuous-Time Quantum Algorithms for Unstructured Problems
authors: Itay Hen
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 045305 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7256
abstract: We consider a family of unstructured problems, for which we propose a method for constructing analog, continuous-time quantum algorithms that are more efficient than their classical counterparts. In this family of problems, which we refer to as `scrambled output' problems, one has to find a minimum-cost configuration of a given integer-valued n-bit function whose output values have been scrambled in some arbitrary way. Special cases within this set of problems are Grover's search problem of finding a marked item in an unstructured database, certain random energy models, and the functions of the Deutsch-Josza problem. We consider a couple of examples in detail. In the first, we provide a deterministic analog quantum algorithm to solve the seminal problem of Deutsch and Josza, in which one has to determine whether an n-bit boolean function is constant (gives 0 on all inputs or 1 on all inputs) or balanced (returns 0 on half the input states and 1 on the other half). We also study one variant of the random energy model, and show that, as one might expect, its minimum energy configuration can be found quadratically faster with a quantum adiabatic algorithm than with classical algorithms.

id: 1302.7266
title: Coherence creation in an optically thick medium by matched propagation of a chirped laser pulse pair
authors: N. Sandor, G. Demeter, D. Dzsotjan, G. P. Djotyan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033823 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7266
abstract: We consider the simultaneous propagation of a pair of Raman-resonant, frequency-modulated (chirped) laser pulses in an optically thick medium, modeled by an ensemble of $\Lambda$-atoms. A self-organization ('matching`) effect is shown for the chirped pulse pair, which leads to a quasi-lossless propagation. Furthermore, we demonstrate that a well-defined coherent superposition of the atomic ground states and, correspondingly, a coherence is robustly created in the medium that can be controlled by amplitudes of the laser pulses. The proposed scheme can be applied to substantially increase the efficiency of the optical wave mixing processes, as well as in other nonlinear processes where the initial preparation of a spatially extended medium in a coherent superposition state is required.

id: 1302.7286
title: Quantum recurrence of a subspace and operator-valued Schur functions
authors: J. Bourgain, F.A. Gr¨¹nbaum, L. Vel¨¢zquez, J. Wilkening
comments: 40 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7286
abstract: A notion of monitored recurrence for discrete-time quantum processes was recently introduced in [Commun. Math. Phys., DOI 10.1007/s00220-012-1645-2] (see also arXiv:1202.3903) taking the initial state as an absorbing one. We extend this notion of monitored recurrence to absorbing subspaces of arbitrary finite dimension. The generating function approach leads to a connection with the well-known theory of operator-valued Schur functions. This is the cornerstone of a spectral characterization of subspace recurrence that generalizes some of the main results in the above mentioned paper. The spectral decomposition of the unitary step operator driving the evolution yields a spectral measure, which we project onto the subspace to obtain a new spectral measure that is purely singular iff the subspace is recurrent, and consists of a pure point spectrum with a finite number of masses precisely when all states in the subspace have a finite expected return time. This notion of subspace recurrence also links the concept of expected return time to an Aharonov-Anandan phase that, in contrast to the case of state recurrence, can be non-integer. Even more surprising is the fact that averaging such geometrical phases over the absorbing subspace yields an integer with a topological meaning, so that the averaged expected return time is always a rational number. Moreover, state recurrence can occasionally give higher return probabilities than subspace recurrence, a fact that reveals once more the counterintuitive behavior of quantum systems. All these phenomena are illustrated with explicit examples, including as a natural application the analysis of site recurrence for coined walks.

id: 1302.7295
title: Quantum coding in non-inertial frames
authors: N. Metwally, A. Sagheer
comments: 
journal: Quantum Inform Process (2014) 13, 771-780
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7295
abstract: The capacity of accelerated channel is investigated for different classes of initial states. It is shown that, the capacities of the travelling channels depend on the frame in which the accelerated channels are observed in and the initial shared state between the partners. In some frames, the capacities decay as the accelerations of both qubit increase. The decay rate is larger if the partners are initially share a maximum entangled state. The possibility of using the accelerated quantum channels to perform quantum coding protocol is discussed. The amount of decoded information is quantified for different cases, where it decays as the partner's accelerations increase to reach its minimum bound. This minimum bound depends on the initial shared states and it is large for maximum entangled state.

id: 1302.7316
title: A Time-Efficient Quantum Walk for 3-Distinctness Using Nested Updates
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Stacey Jeffery, Robin Kothari, Frederic Magniez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7316
abstract: We present an extension to the quantum walk search framework that facilitates quantum walks with nested updates. We apply it to give a quantum walk algorithm for 3-Distinctness with query complexity ~O(n^{5/7}), matching the best known upper bound (obtained via learning graphs) up to log factors. Furthermore, our algorithm has time complexity ~O(n^{5/7}), improving the previous ~O(n^{3/4}).

id: 1302.0002
title: Possible latitude effects of Chern-Simons gravity on quantum interference
authors: Hiroki Okawara, Kei Yamada, Hideki Asada
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures, text improved with references added; accepted by PRD. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1210.4628
journal: Phys.Rev.D87:084038,2013
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Earth and Planetary Astrophysics (astro-ph.EP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0002
abstract: It has been recently suggested that possible effects of Chern-Simons gravity on a quantum interferometer are dependent on the latitude and direction of the interferometer on Earth in orbital motion around Sun. Continuing work initiated in the earlier publication [Okawara, Yamada and Asada, Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 231101 (2012)], we perform numerical calculations of time variation in the induced phase shifts for nonequatorial cases. We show that the maximum phase shift at any latitude might occur at 6, 0 (and 12), and 18 hours (in local time) of each day, when the normal vector to the interferometer is vertical, eastbound and northbound, respectively. If two identical interferometers were located at different latitudes, the difference between two phase shifts that are measured at the same local time would be $O(\sin \delta\varphi)$ for a small latitude difference $\delta\varphi$. It might thus become maximally $\sim 20$ percents for $\delta\varphi \sim 10$ degrees, for instance.

id: 1302.0047
title: High-fidelity readout and control of a nuclear spin qubit in silicon
authors: Jarryd J. Pla, Kuan Y. Tan, Juan P. Dehollain, Wee H. Lim, John J. L. Morton, Floris A. Zwanenburg, David N. Jamieson, Andrew S. Dzurak, Andrea Morello
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature 496, 334 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0047
abstract: A single nuclear spin holds the promise of being a long-lived quantum bit or quantum memory, with the high fidelities required for fault-tolerant quantum computing. We show here that such promise could be fulfilled by a single phosphorus (31P) nuclear spin in a silicon nanostructure. By integrating single-shot readout of the electron spin with on-chip electron spin resonance, we demonstrate the quantum non-demolition, electrical single-shot readout of the nuclear spin, with readout fidelity better than 99.8% - the highest for any solid-state qubit. The single nuclear spin is then operated as a qubit by applying coherent radiofrequency (RF) pulses. For an ionized 31P donor we find a nuclear spin coherence time of 60 ms and a 1-qubit gate control fidelity exceeding 98%. These results demonstrate that the dominant technology of modern electronics can be adapted to host a complete electrical measurement and control platform for nuclear spin-based quantum information processing.

id: 1302.0162
title: Compact engineering of path-entangled sources from a monolithic quadratic nonlinear photonic crystal
authors: H. Jin, P. Xu, X. W. Luo, H. Y. Leng, Y. X. Gong, S. N. Zhu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 023603 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0162
abstract: Photonic entangled states lie at the heart of quantum science for the demonstrations of quantum mechanics foundations and supply as a key resource for approaching various quantum technologies. An integrated realization of such states will certainly guarantee a high-degree of entanglement and improve the performance like portability, stability and miniaturization, hence becomes an inevitable tendency towards the integrated quantum optics. Here, we report the compact realization of steerable photonic path-entangled states from a monolithic quadratic nonlinear photonic crystal. The crystal acts as an inherent beam splitter to distribute photons into coherent spatial modes, producing the heralded single-photon even appealing beamlike two-photon path-entanglement, wherein the entanglement is characterized by quantum spatial beatings. Such multifunctional entangled source can be further extended to high-dimensional fashion and multi-photon level as well as involved with other degrees of freedom, which paves a desirable way to engineer miniaturized quantum light source.

id: 1302.0194
title: Tensorial description of quantum mechanics
authors: J. Clemente-Gallardo, G. Marmo
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Scripta T153 014012, 2013
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0194
abstract: Relevant algebraic structures for the description of Quantum Mechanics in the Heisenberg picture are replaced by tensorfields on the space of states. This replacement introduces a differential geometric point of view which allows for a covariant formulation of quantum mechanics under the full diffeomorphism group.

id: 1302.0211
title: Quasiparticle lifetime in ultracold fermionic mixtures with density and mass imbalance
authors: Zhihao Lan, Georg M. Bruun, Carlos Lobo
comments: replaced with published version; title changed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 145301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0211
abstract: We show that atomic Fermi mixtures with density and mass imbalance exhibit a rich diversity of scaling laws for the quasiparticle decay rate beyond the quadratic energy and temperature dependence of conventional Fermi liquids. For certain densities and mass ratios, the decay rate is linear whereas in other cases it exhibits a plateau. Remarkably, this plateau extends from the deeply degenerate to the high temperature classical regime of the light species. Many of these scaling laws are analogous to what is found in very different systems including dirty metals, liquid metals, and high temperature plasmas. The Fermi mixtures can in this sense span a whole range of seemingly diverse and separate physical systems. Our results are derived in the weakly interacting limit making them quantitatively reliable. The different regimes can be detected with radio-frequency spectroscopy.

id: 1302.0230
title: Multi-Particle Spectral Properties in the Transverse Field Ising Model by Continuous Unitary Transformations
authors: Benedikt Fauseweh, G?tz S. Uhrig
comments: 20 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 184406 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0230
abstract: The one-dimensional transverse field Ising model is solved by continuous unitary transformations in the high-field limit. A high accuracy is reached due to the closure of the relevant algebra of operators which we call string operators. The closure is related to the possibility to map the model by Jordan-Wigner transformation to non-interacting fermions. But it is proven without referring to this mapping. The effective model derived by the continuous unitary transformations is used to compute the contributions of one, two, and three elementary excitations to the diagonal dynamic structure factors. The three-particle contributions have so far not been addressed analytically, except close to the quantum critical point.

id: 1302.0232
title: Nonequilibrium mesoscopic Fermi reservoirs distributions and particle current through a coherent quantum system
authors: Shigeru Ajisaka, Felipe Barra
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0232
abstract: We study particle current and occupation distribution in a recently proposed model for coherent quantum transport. In this model a system connected to mesoscopic Fermi reservoirs (mesoreservoir) is driven out of equilibrium by the action of superreservoirs with prescribed temperatures and chemical potentials described by a simple dissipative mechanism with the Lindblad equation. We compare exact (numerical) results for the non-equilibrium steady state particle current with theoretical expectations based on the Landauer formula and show that the model reproduce the behavior of coherent quantum systems in the expected parameter region. We also obtain the occupation distribution on the mesoreservoir in the non-equilibrium steady state and compare them with the occupation distribution on the leads in usual description of coherent quantum transport.

id: 1302.0280
title: Holographic applications of logarithmic conformal field theories
authors: D. Grumiller, W. Riedler, J. Rosseel, T. Zojer
comments: 36 pp + references, invited review article for J.Phys.A special issue, v2: minor changes, added refs
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 494002
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0280
abstract: We review the relations between Jordan cells in various branches of physics, ranging from quantum mechanics to massive gravity theories. Our main focus is on holographic correspondences between critically tuned gravity theories in Anti-de Sitter space and logarithmic conformal field theories in various dimensions. We summarize the developments in the past five years, include some novel generalizations and provide an outlook on possible future developments.

id: 1302.0297
title: Feshbach resonances in a nonseparable trap
authors: Krzysztof Jachymski, Zbigniew Idziaszek, Tommaso Calarco
comments: 4 figures, as published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042701 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0297
abstract: We consider a pair of atoms in an arbitrary trapping potential in the presence of magnetically tunable Feshbach resonance. We find the energy levels and occupation of the bound molecular states taking into account possible coupling between center of mass and relative motion induced by the trap. As a specific example we discuss the case of different atomic species in harmonic potential, where each atom feels different trapping frequency.

id: 1302.0303
title: Quantum Markovian Kinetic Equation for Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Boris Bondarev
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0303
abstract: Specific nonequilibrium states of the quantum harmonic oscillator described by the Lindblad equation have been hereby suggested. This equation makes it possible to determine time-varying effects produced by statistical operator or statistical matrix. Thus, respective representation-varied equilibrium statistical matrixes have been found. Specific mean value equations have been found and their equilibrium solutions have been obtained.

id: 1302.0306
title: Simplex Z_2 spin liquids on the Kagome lattice with Entangled Pair States: spinon and vison coherence lengths, topological entropy and gapless edge modes
authors: Didier Poilblanc, Norbert Schuch
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures - v2 with moderate revision of abstract, text and conclusion
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 140407 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0306
abstract: Gapped Z_2 spin liquids have been proposed as candidates for the ground-state of the S=1/2 quantum antiferromagnet on the Kagome lattice. We extend the use of Projected Entangled Pair States to construct (on the cylinder)Resonating Valence Bond (RVB) states including both nearest-neighbor and next-nearest neighbor singlet bonds. Our ansatz -- dubbed "simplex spin liquid" -- allows for an asymmetry between the two types of triangles (of order 2-3% in the energy density after optimization) leading to the breaking of inversion symmetry. We show that the topological Z_2 structure is still preserved and, by considering the presence or the absence of spinon and vison lines along an infinite cylinder, we explicitly construct four orthogonal RVB Minimally Entangled States. The spinon and vison coherence lengths are extracted from a finite size scaling w.r.t the cylinder perimeter of the energy splittings of the four sectors and are found to be of the order of the lattice spacing. The entanglement spectrum of a partitioned (infinite) cylinder is found to be gapless suggesting the occurrence, on a cylinder with {\it real} open boundaries, of gapless edge modes formally similar to Luttinger liquid (non-chiral) spin and charge modes. When inversion symmetry is spontaneously broken, the RVB spin liquid exhibits an extra Ising degeneracy, which might have been observed in recent exact diagonalisation studies.

id: 1302.0313
title: Casimir interaction energies for magneto-electric ¦Ä-function plates
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Prachi Parashar, Martin Schaden, K. V. Shajesh
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, for the proceedings of the conference Mathematical Structures in Quantum Systems, Benasque, Spain, July 2012, to be published in Nuovo Cimento
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0313
abstract: We present boundary conditions for the electromagnetic fields on a \delta-function plate, having both electric and magnetic properties, sandwiched between two magneto-electric semi-infinite half spaces. The optical properties for an isolated \delta-function plate are shown to be independent of the longitudinal material properties of the plate. The Casimir-Polder energy between an isotropically polarizable atom and a magneto-electric \delta-function plate is attractive for a purely electric \delta-function plate, repulsive for a purely magnetic \delta-function plate, and vanishes for the simultaneous perfect conductor limit of both electric and magnetic properties of the \delta-function plate. The interaction energy between two identical \delta-function plates is always attractive. It can be attractive or repulsive when the plates have electric and magnetic properties interchanged and reproduces Boyer's result for the interaction energy between perfectly conducting electric and magnetic plates. The change in the Casimir-Polder energy in the presence of a \delta-function plate on a magneto-electric substrate is substantial when the substrate is a weak dielectric.

id: 1302.0339
title: Achieving the Quantum Ground State of a Mechanical Oscillator using a Bose-Einstein Condensate with Back-Action and Cold Damping feedback schemes
authors: Sonam Mahajan, Neha Aggarwal, Aranya B Bhattacherjee, ManMohan
comments: 18 pages, 22 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0339
abstract: We present a detailed study to show the possibility of approaching the quantum ground-state of a hybrid optomechanical quantum device formed by a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) confined inside a high-finesse optical cavity with an oscillatory end mirror. Cooling is achieved using two experimentally realizable schemes: back-action cooling and cold damping quantum feedback cooling. In both the schemes, we found that increasing the two body atom-atom interaction brings the mechanical oscillator to its quantum ground state. It has been observed that back-action cooling is more effective in the good cavity limit while the cold damping cooling scheme is more relevant in the bad cavity limit. It is also shown that in the cold damping scheme, the device is more efficient in the presence of BEC than in the absence of BEC.

id: 1302.0491
title: Basic quantum Hamiltonian's relativistic corrections
authors: Gintautas P. Kamuntavi?ius
comments: 14 pages, LaTeX; Corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0491
abstract: After analyzing Dirac's equation, one can suggest that a well-known quantum-mechanical momentum operator is associated with relativistic momentum, rather than with non-relativistic one. Consideration of relativistic energy and momentum expressions allows us to define the non-relativistic, relativistic and pseudo-relativistic (present in Schr\"odinger equation) kinetic energy operators. Consequences of kinetic energy operator's correction for spectra of basic quantum Hamiltonians are investigated. In some cases this correction can produce remarkable spectra modifications.

id: 1302.0545
title: A Green's function formalism of energy and momentum transfer in fluctuational electrodynamics
authors: Arvind Narayanaswamy, Yi Zheng
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: A. Narayanaswamy, Y. Zheng, A Green's function formalism of energy and momentum transfer in fluctuational electrodynamics, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Available online 15 January 2013, ISSN 0022-4073
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0545
abstract: Radiative energy and momentum transfer due to fluctuations of electromagnetic fields arising due to temperature difference between objects is described in terms of the cross-spectral densities of the electromagnetic fields. We derive relations between thermal non-equilibrium contributions to energy and momentum transfer and surface integrals of tangential components of the dyadic Green's functions of the vector Helmholtz equation. The expressions derived here are applicable to objects of arbitrary shapes, dielectric functions, as well as magnetic permeabilities. For the case of radiative transfer, we derive expressions for the generalized transmissivity and generalized conductance that are shown to obey reciprocity and agree with theory of black body radiative transfer in the appropriate limit.

id: 1302.0570
title: Quantum coherence-assisted propagation of surface plasmon polaritons
authors: Pankaj K. Jha, Xiaobo Yin, Xiang Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0570
abstract: We theoretically demonstrate coherent control over propagation of surface plasmon polaritons(SPP), at both telecommunication and visible wavelengths, on a metallic surface adjacent to quantum coherence (phaseonium) medium composed of three-level quantum emitters (semiconductor quantum dots, atoms, rare-earth ions, etc.) embedded in a dielectric host. The coherent drive allows us to provide sufficient gain for lossless SPP propagation and also lowers the pumping requirements. In case of lossy propagation, an order of magnitude enhancement in propagation length can be achieved. Optical control over SPP propagation dynamics via an external coherent drive holds promise for quantum control in the field of nanophotonics.

id: 1302.0701
title: Majorana edge states in two atomic wires coupled by pair-hopping
authors: Christina V. Kraus, Marcello Dalmonte, Mikhail A. Baranov, Andreas M. Laeuchli, P. Zoller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 173004 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0701
abstract: We present evidence for the existence of Majorana edge states in a number conserving theory describing a system of spinless fermions on two wires that are coupled by a pair hopping. Our analysis is based on the combination of a qualitative low energy approach and numerical techniques using the Density Matrix Renormalization Group. We also discuss an experimental realization of pair-hopping interactions in cold atom gases confined in optical lattices, and its possible alternative applications to quantum simulation.

id: 1302.0709
title: Area law for random graph states
authors: Benoit Collins, Ion Nechita, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: v2: minor typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 305302
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0709
abstract: Random pure states of multi-partite quantum systems, associated with arbitrary graphs, are investigated. Each vertex of the graph represents a generic interaction between subsystems, described by a random unitary matrix distributed according to the Haar measure, while each edge of the graph represents a bi-partite, maximally entangled state. For any splitting of the graph into two parts we consider the corresponding partition of the quantum system and compute the average entropy of entanglement. First, in the special case where the partition does not "cross" any vertex of the graph, we show that the area law is satisfied exactly. In the general case, we show that the entropy of entanglement obeys an area law on average, this time with a correction term that depends on the topologies of the graph and of the partition. The results obtained are applied to the problem of distribution of quantum entanglement in a quantum network with prescribed topology.

id: 1302.0729
title: Fast microwave beam splitters from superconducting resonators
authors: M. Haeberlein, D. Zueco, P. Assum, T. Wei?l, E. Hoffmann, B. Peropadre, J.J. Garc\ia-Ripoll, E. Solano, F. Deppe, A. Marx, R. Gross
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0729
abstract: Coupled superconducting transmission line resonators have applications in quantum information processing and fundamental quantum mechanics. A particular example is the realization of fast beam splitters, which however is hampered by two-mode squeezer terms. Here, we experimentally study superconducting microstrip resonators which are coupled over one third of their length. By varying the position of this coupling region we can tune the strength of the two-mode squeezer coupling from 2.4% to 12.9% of the resonance frequency of 5.44GHz. Nevertheless, the beam splitter coupling rate for maximally suppressed two-mode squeezing is 810MHz, enabling the construction of a fast and pure beam splitter.

id: 1302.0736
title: Tangential force, Frictional Torque and Heating Rate of a Small Neutral Rotating Particle Moving through the Equilibrium Background Radiation
authors: G.V. Dedkov, A.A. Kyasov
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0736
abstract: For the first time, based on the fluctuation-electromagnetic theory, we have calculated the drug force, the radiation heat flux and the frictional torque on a small rotating particle moving at a relativistic velocity through the equilibrium background radiation (photon gas). The particle and background radiation are characterized by different temperatures corresponding to the local thermodynamic equilibrium in their own reference frames.

id: 1302.0786
title: NbTiN superconducting nanowire detectors for visible and telecom wavelengths single photon counting on Si3N4 photonic circuits
authors: C. Schuck, W. H. P. Pernice, H. X. Tang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 051101 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0786
abstract: We demonstrate niobium titanium nitride superconducting nanowires patterned on stoichiometric silicon nitride waveguides for detecting visible and infrared photons. The use of silicon nitride on insulator on silicon substrates allows us to simultaneously realize photonic circuits for visible and infrared light and integrate them with nanowire detectors directly on-chip. By implementing a traveling wave detector geometry in this material platform, we achieve efficient single photon detection for both wavelength regimes. Our detectors are an ideal match for integrated quantum optics as they provide crucial functionality on a wideband transparent waveguide material.

id: 1302.0798
title: The Coulomb problem on a 3-sphere and Heun polynomials
authors: Stefano Bellucci, Vahagn Yeghikyan
comments: 8 pages, PACS 03.65.-w, 02.30.Ik, 14.80.Hv; typo in eqs. (9) and (12) corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0798
abstract: The paper studies the quantum mechanical Coulomb problem on a 3-sphere. We present a special parametrization of the ellipto-spheroidal coordinate system suitable for the separation of variables. After quantization we get the explicit form of the spectrum and present an algebraic equation for the eigenvalues of the Runge-Lentz vector. We also present the wave functions expressed via Heun polynomials.

id: 1302.0835
title: Estimate of the weight of empty space based on astronomical observations
authors: Thomas Durt
comments: submitted to EPL
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0835
abstract: As a consequence of the equivalence principle and of the existence of a negative vacuum energy, we show how a weak but universal linear response of the vacuum to a local gravitational potential suffices to explain the main features of so-called Pioneer anomalies as well as the apparent departure from the third Kepler law which has been observed at the level of numerous galaxies.

id: 1302.0864
title: Potential theory, path integrals and the Laplacian of the indicator
authors: Rutger-Jan Lange
comments: 46 pages, 2 figures
journal: Lange, Rutger-Jan. "Potential theory, path integrals and the Laplacian of the indicator." The Journal of High Energy Physics 2012.11 (2012): 1-46
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0864
abstract: This paper links the field of potential theory -- i.e. the Dirichlet and Neumann problems for the heat and Laplace equation -- to that of the Feynman path integral, by postulating that the potential is equal to plus/minus the Laplacian of the indicator of the domain D. The Laplacian of the indicator is a generalized function: it is the d-dimensional analogue of the Dirac delta'-function. This function has -- according to the author's best knowledge -- not formally been defined before. We show, first, that the path integral's perturbation series (or Born series) matches the classical single and double boundary layer series of potential theory, thereby connecting two hitherto unrelated fields. Second, we show that the perturbation series is valid for all domains D that allow Green's theorem (i.e. with a finite number of corners, edges and cusps), thereby expanding the classical applicability of boundary layers. Third, we show that the minus (plus) in the potential holds for the Dirichlet (Neumann) boundary condition; showing for the first time a particularly close connection between these two classical problems. Fourth, we demonstrate that the perturbation series of the path integral converges in a monotone/alternating fashion, depending on the convexity/concavity of the domain. We also discuss the third boundary problem (which poses Robin boundary conditions) and discuss an extension to moving domains.

id: 1302.0887
title: Co-evolution of networks and quantum dynamics: a generalization of preferential attachment
authors: Vincenzo Nicosia, Takuya Machida, Richard Wilson, Edwin Hancock, Norio Konno, Vito Latora, Simone Severini
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech., P08016 (2013)
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0887
abstract: We propose a model of network growth in which the network is co-evolving together with the dynamics of a quantum mechanical system, namely a quantum walk taking place over the network. The model naturally generalizes the Barab\'{a}si-Albert model of preferential attachment and has a rich set of tunable parameters, such as the initial conditions of the dynamics or the interaction of the system with its environment. We show that the model produces networks with two-modal power-law degree distributions, super-hubs, finite clustering coefficient, small-world behaviour and non-trivial degree-degree correlations.

id: 1302.0899
title: Entanglement Entropy as a Portal to the Physics of Quantum Spin Liquids
authors: Tarun Grover, Yi Zhang, Ashvin Vishwanath
comments: Review article; 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 025002 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0899
abstract: Quantum Spin Liquids (QSLs) are phases of interacting spins that do not order even at the absolute zero temperature, making it impossible to characterize them by a local order parameter. In this article, we review the unique view provided by the quantum entanglement on QSLs. We illustrate the crucial role of Topological Entanglement Entropy in diagnosing the non-local order in QSLs, using specific examples such as the Chiral Spin Liquid. We also demonstrate the detection of anyonic quasiparticles and their braiding statistics using quantum entanglement. In the context of gapless QSLs, we discuss the detection of emergent fermionic spinons in a bosonic wavefunction, by studying the size dependence of entanglement entropy.

id: 1302.1076
title: An approach to quantum transport based on reduced hierarchy equations of motion: Application to a resonant tunneling diode
authors: Atsunori Sakurai, Yoshitaka Tanimura
comments: 7 pages 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 82, 033707 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1076
abstract: The quantum dissipative dynamics of a tunneling process through double barrier structures is investigated on the basis of a rigorous treatment for the first time. We employ a Caldeira-Leggett Hamiltonian with an effective potential calculated self-consistently, accounting for the electron distribution. With this Hamiltonian, we use the reduced hierarchy equations of motion in the Wigner space representation to study the effects of non-Markovian thermal fluctuations and dissipation at finite temperature in a rigorous manner. Hysteresis, double plateau-like behavior, and self-excited current oscillation are observed in a negative differential resistance (NDR) region of the current-voltage curve. We find that while most of the current oscillations decay in time in the NDR region, there is a steady oscillation characterized by a tornado-like rotation in the Wigner space in the upper plateau of the NDR region.

id: 1302.1091
title: Pseudo Parity-Time Symmetry in Optical Systems
authors: Xiaobing Luo, Jiahao Huang, Honghua Zhong, Xizhou Qin, Qiongtao Xie, Yuri S. Kivshar, Chaohong Lee
comments: accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters, including supplementary materials
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 243902 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1091
abstract: We introduce a novel concept of the {\em pseudo} parity-time ($\mathcal{PT}$) symmetry in periodically modulated optical systems with balanced gain and loss. We demonstrate that whether the original system is $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric or not, we can manipulate the property of the $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry by applying a periodic modulation in such a way that the effective system derived by the high-frequency Floquet method is $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetric. If the original system is non-$\mathcal{PT}$ symmetric, the $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry in the effective system will lead to quasi-stationary propagation that can be associated with the \emph{pseudo $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry}. Our results provide a promising approach for manipulating the $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry of realistic systems.

id: 1302.1110
title: Entanglement negativity and conformal field theory: a Monte Carlo study
authors: Vincenzo Alba
comments: 31 pages, 10 figures. Minor changes, published version
journal: J. Stat. Mech. P05013 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1110
abstract: We investigate the behavior of the moments of the partially transposed reduced density matrix \rho^{T_2}_A in critical quantum spin chains. Given subsystem A as union of two blocks, this is the (matrix) transposed of \rho_A with respect to the degrees of freedom of one of the two. This is also the main ingredient for constructing the logarithmic negativity. We provide a new numerical scheme for calculating efficiently all the moments of \rho_A^{T_2} using classical Monte Carlo simulations. In particular we study several combinations of the moments which are scale invariant at a critical point. Their behavior is fully characterized in both the critical Ising and the anisotropic Heisenberg XXZ chains. For two adjacent blocks we find, in both models, full agreement with recent CFT calculations. For disjoint ones, in the Ising chain finite size corrections are non negligible. We demonstrate that their exponent is the same governing the unusual scaling corrections of the mutual information between the two blocks. Monte Carlo data fully match the theoretical CFT prediction only in the asymptotic limit of infinite intervals. Oppositely, in the Heisenberg chain scaling corrections are smaller and, already at finite (moderately large) block sizes, Monte Carlo data are in excellent agreement with the asymptotic CFT result.

id: 1302.1113
title: Entanglement negativity in the critical Ising chain
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, Luca Tagliacozzo, Erik Tonni
comments: 31 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P05002
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1113
abstract: We study the scaling of the traces of the integer powers of the partially transposed reduced density matrix and of the entanglement negativity for two spin blocks as function of their length and separation in the critical Ising chain. For two adjacent blocks, we show that tensor network calculations agree with universal conformal field theory (CFT) predictions. In the case of two disjoint blocks the CFT predictions are recovered only after taking into account the finite size corrections induced by the finite length of the blocks.

id: 1302.1122
title: Tuning universality far from equilibrium
authors: Markus Karl, Boris Nowak, Thomas Gasenzer
comments: 5+3 pages, 3+2 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 3: 2394, 2013
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1122
abstract: Possible universal dynamics of a many-body system far from thermal equilibrium are explored. A focus is set on meta-stable non-thermal states exhibiting critical properties such as self-similarity and independence of the details of how the respective state has been reached. It is proposed that universal dynamics far from equilibrium can be tuned to exhibit a dynamical phase transition where these critical properties change qualitatively. This is demonstrated for the case of a superfluid two-component Bose gas exhibiting different types of long-lived but non-thermal critical order. Scaling exponents controlled by the ratio of experimentally tuneable coupling parameters offer themselves as natural smoking guns. The results shed light on the wealth of universal phenomena expected to exist in the far-from-equilibrium realm.

id: 1302.1139
title: Symplectic Semiclassical Wave Packet Dynamics
authors: Tomoki Ohsawa, Melvin Leok
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, 46, p. 405201 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1139
abstract: The paper gives a symplectic-geometric account of semiclassical Gaussian wave packet dynamics. We employ geometric techniques to "strip away" the symplectic structure behind the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation and incorporate it into semiclassical wave packet dynamics. We show that the Gaussian wave packet dynamics is a Hamiltonian system with respect to the symplectic structure, apply the theory of symplectic reduction and reconstruction to the dynamics, and discuss dynamic and geometric phases in semiclassical mechanics. A simple harmonic oscillator example is worked out to illustrate the results: We show that the reduced semiclassical harmonic oscillator dynamics is completely integrable by finding the action--angle coordinates for the system, and calculate the associated dynamic and geometric phases explicitly. We also propose an asymptotic approximation of the potential term that provides a practical semiclassical correction term to the approximation by Heller. Numerical results for a simple one-dimensional example show that the semiclassical correction term realizes a semiclassical tunneling.

id: 1302.1187
title: Thermal vs. Entanglement Entropy: A Measurement Protocol for Fermionic Atoms with a Quantum Gas Microscope
authors: Hannes Pichler, Lars Bonnes, Andrew J. Daley, Andreas M. L?uchli, Peter Zoller
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 063003
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1187
abstract: We show how to measure the order-two Renyi entropy of many-body states of spinful fermionic atoms in an optical lattice in equilibrium and non-equilibrium situations. The proposed scheme relies on the possibility to produce and couple two copies of the state under investigation, and to measure the occupation number in a site- and spin-resolved manner, e.g. with a quantum gas microscope. Such a protocol opens the possibility to measure entanglement and test a number of theoretical predictions, such as area laws and their corrections. As an illustration we discuss the interplay between thermal and entanglement entropy for a one dimensional Fermi-Hubbard model at finite temperature, and its possible measurement in an experiment using the present scheme.

id: 1302.1316
title: The Quantum Arnold Transformation and the Ermakov-Pinney equation
authors: Julio Guerrero, Francisco F. L¨®pez-Ruiz
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure; to appear in Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1316
abstract: The previously introduced Quantum Arnold Transformation, a unitary operator mapping the solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation for time dependent quadratic Hamiltonians into the solutions for the free particle, is revised and some interesting extensions are introduced, providing in particular a generalization of the Ermakov-Pinney equation.

id: 1302.1333
title: Geometric approach to non-relativistic Quantum Dynamics of mixed states
authors: Vicent Gimeno, Jose Sotoca
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure. Minor corrections. Accepted to Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1333
abstract: In this paper we propose a geometrization of the non-relativistic quantum mechanics for mixed states. Our geometric approach makes use of the Uhlmann's principal fibre bundle to describe the space of mixed states and as a novelty tool, to define a dynamic-dependent metric tensor on the principal manifold, such that the projection of the geodesic flow to the base manifold gives the temporal evolution predicted by the von Neumann equation. Using that approach we can describe every conserved quantum observable as a Killing vector field, and provide a geometric proof for the Poincare quantum recurrence in a physical system with finite energy levels.

id: 1302.1341
title: Towards experimentally testing the paradox of black hole information loss
authors: Baocheng Zhang, Qing-yu Cai, Ming-sheng Zhan, Li You
comments: Published version. 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 044006 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1341
abstract: Information about the collapsed matter in a black hole will be lost if Hawking radiations are truly thermal. Recent studies discover that information can be transmitted from a black hole by Hawking radiations, due to their spectrum deviating from exact thermality when back reaction is considered. In this paper, we focus on the spectroscopic features of Hawking radiation from a Schwarzschild black hole, contrasting the differences between the nonthermal and thermal spectra. Of great interest, we find that the energy covariances of Hawking radiations for the thermal spectrum are exactly zero, while the energy covariances are non-trivial for the nonthermal spectrum. Consequently, the nonthermal spectrum can be distinguished from the thermal one by counting the energy covariances of successive emissions, which provides an avenue towards experimentally testing the long-standing "information loss paradox".

id: 1302.1438
title: Excited-State Dynamics in SO2: II. The Role of Triplet States in the Bound State Relaxation Studied by Surface-Hopping Simulations
authors: Sebastian Mai, Philipp Marquetand, Leticia Gonzalez
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1438
abstract: The importance of triplet states in the photorelaxation dynamics of SO2 is studied by mixed quantum-classical dynamics simulations. Using the Surface Hopping including ARbitrary Couplings (Sharc) method, intersystem crossing processes caused by spin-orbit coupling are found occuring on an ultrafast time scale (few 100 fs) and thus competing with internal conversion. While in the singlet-only dynamics only oscillatory population transfer between the 1B1 and 1A2 states is observed, in the dynamics including singlet and triplet states we find additionally continuous ISC to the 3B2 state and to a smaller extent to the 3B1/3A2 coupled states. The populations obtained from the dynamics are discussed with respect to the overall nuclear motion and in the light of recent TRPEPICO studies [Wilkinson et al., paper I].

id: 1302.1448
title: Non-thermal fixed points: universality, topology, & turbulence in Bose gases
authors: Boris Nowak, Sebastian Erne, Markus Karl, Jan Schole, D¨¦nes Sexty, Thomas Gasenzer
comments: 37 pages, 16 figures; Prepared for the proceedings of the Summer school: Strongly interacting quantum systems out of equilibrium, held 30 July--24 August 2012 at Ecole de Physique des Houches, Les Houches, France
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1448
abstract: In these notes we discuss recent developments in the field of non-equilibrium quantum dynamics. Specifically, we consider nearly coherent Bose gases brought far out of equilibrium and study their behaviour in view of connections between universal properties, (quasi-)topological field configurations and turbulent dynamics. We demonstrate that the isolated Bose gas, on its way back to thermal equilibrium, can approach metastable non-equilibrium configurations and spend a long time in their vicinity. In such configurations, which have been termed non-thermal fixed points, the system shows universal long-range properties manifest through scaling, i.e., self-similar correlations. The spatial field pattern, at the same time, is characterized by the appearance of defects and domain formation whose geometry gives rise to the particular scaling laws seen in the correlation functions. We obtain an overall picture which connects well-known concepts for describing universal dynamics such as wave-turbulence, superfluid turbulence, and (quasi-)topological excitations. This allows to bring together a wide range of concepts and methods with a large spectrum of applications.

id: 1302.1694
title: Optical instabilities in three-level lambda and V system inside double-cavity
authors: H. Aswath Babu, Harshawardhan Wanare
comments: Comments can be sent to aswath@iitk.ac.in
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1694
abstract: We obtain optical instabilities in all-optical bistable systems arising from competing cooperative pathways at low input light levels. In particular for three-level atomic systems in the lambda and V configuration interacting with two independent cavity modes, we identify the necessary conditions related to the incoherent pathways required to obtain instabilities. The instabilities arise when atomic states involved in the bistable transition are leaky and have substantial population, where the incoherent processes adversely affect the cooperative behavior of the atomic ensemble.

id: 1302.1707
title: Multi-phonon relaxation and generation of quantum states in a nonlinear mechanical oscillator
authors: Aurora Voje, Alexander Croy, Andreas Isacsson
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures; Minor revisions; Accepted for publication in NJP
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 053041
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1707
abstract: The dissipative quantum dynamics of an anharmonic oscillator is investigated theoretically in the context of carbon-based nano-mechanical systems. In the short-time limit, it is known that macroscopic superposition states appear for such oscillators. In the long-time limit, single and multi-phonon dissipation lead to decoherence of the non-classical states. However, at zero temperature, as a result of two-phonon losses the quantum oscillator eventually evolves into a non-classical steady state. The relaxation of this state due to thermal excitations and one-phonon losses is numerically and analytically studied. The possibility of verifying the occurrence of the non-classical state is investigated and signatures of the quantum features arising in a ring-down setup are presented. The feasibility of the verification scheme is discussed in the context of quantum nano-mechanical systems.

id: 1302.1709
title: Quantum bath-driven decoherence of mixed spin systems
authors: S. J. Balian, Gary Wolfowicz, John J. L. Morton, T. S. Monteiro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1709
abstract: The decoherence of mixed electron-nuclear spin qubits is a topic of great current importance, but understanding is still lacking: while important decoherence mechanisms for spin qubits arise from quantum spin bath environments with slow decay of correlations, the only analytical framework for explaining observed sharp variations of decoherence times with magnetic field is based on the suppression of classical noise. Here we obtain a general expression for decoherence times of the central spin system which exposes significant differences between quantum-bath decoherence and decoherence by classical field noise. We perform measurements of decoherence times of bismuth donors in natural silicon using both electron spin resonance (ESR) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) transitions, and in both cases find excellent agreement with our theory across a wide parameter range. The universality of our expression is also tested by quantitative comparisons with previous measurements of decoherence around `optimal working points' or `clock transitions' where decoherence is strongly suppressed. We further validate our results by comparison to cluster expansion simulations.

id: 1302.1807
title: Optical coupling to nanoscale optomechanical cavities for near quantum-limited motion transduction
authors: Justin D. Cohen, Sean Meenehan, Oskar Painter
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1807
abstract: A significant challenge in the development of chip-scale cavity-optomechanical devices as testbeds for quantum experiments and classical metrology lies in the coupling of light from nanoscale optical mode volumes to conventional optical components such as lenses and fibers. In this work we demonstrate a high-efficiency, single-sided fiber-optic coupling platform for optomechanical cavities. By utilizing an adiabatic waveguide taper to transform a single optical mode between a photonic crystal zipper cavity and a permanently mounted fiber, we achieve a collection efficiency for intracavity photons of 52% at the cavity resonance wavelength of 1538nm. An optical balanced homodyne measurement of the displacement fluctuations of the fundamental in-plane mechanical resonance at 3.3 MHz reveals that the imprecision noise floor lies a factor of 2.8 above the standard quantum limit (SQL) for continuous position measurement, with a predicted total added noise of 1.4 phonons at the optimal probe power. The combination of extremely low measurement noise and robust fiber alignment presents significant progress towards single-phonon sensitivity for these sorts of integrated micro-optomechanical cavities.

id: 1302.1827
title: Vibrational spectroscopy of polar molecules with superradiance
authors: Guin-Dar Lin, Susanne F. Yelin
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1827
abstract: We investigate cooperative phenomena and superradiance for vibrational transitions in polar molecule spectroscopy when a high optical-depth (OD) sample is studied. Such cooperativity comes from the build-up of inter-particle coherence through dipole-dipole interactions and leads to the speed-up of decay process. We compare our calculation to recent work [Deiglmayr et al., Eur. Phys. J. D 65, 99 (2011)] and find very good agreement, suggesting that superradiant effects need to be included in a wide variety of ultracold molecule setups including vibrational and rotational states.

id: 1302.1878
title: Renormalization of Entanglement Entropy and the Gravitational Effective Action
authors: Joshua H. Cooperman, Markus A. Luty
comments: 26 pages, 2 figures. v2: minor corrections and clarifications
journal: Journal of High Energy Physics 12 (2014) 045
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1878
abstract: The entanglement entropy associated with a spatial boundary in quantum field theory is UV divergent, with the leading term proportional to the area of the boundary. For a class of quantum states defined by a path integral, the Callan-Wilczek formula gives a geometrical definition of the entanglement entropy. We show that, for this class of quantum states, the entanglement entropy is rendered UV-finite by precisely the counterterms required to cancel the UV divergences in the gravitational effective action. In particular, the leading contribution to the entanglement entropy is given by the renormalized Bekenstein-Hawking formula, in accordance with a proposal of Susskind and Uglum. We show that the subleading UV-divergent terms in the entanglement entropy depend nontrivially on the quantum state. We compute new subleading terms in the entanglement entropy and find agreement with the Wald entropy formula for black hole spacetimes with bifurcate Killing horizons. We speculate that the entanglement entropy of an arbitrary spatial boundary may be a well-defined observable in quantum gravity.

id: 1302.1933
title: Self-Consistent Measurement and State Tomography of an Exchange-Only Spin Qubit
authors: J. Medford, J. Beil, J. M. Taylor, S. D. Bartlett, A. C. Doherty, E. I. Rashba, D. P. DiVincenzo, H. Lu, A. C. Gossard, C. M. Marcus
comments: contains Supplementary Information
journal: Nature Nanotechnology 8, 654 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1933
abstract: We report initialization, complete electrical control, and single-shot readout of an exchange-only spin qubit. Full control via the exchange interaction is fast, yielding a demonstrated 75 qubit rotations in under 2 ns. Measurement and state tomography are performed using a maximum-likelihood estimator method, allowing decoherence, leakage out of the qubit state space, and measurement fidelity to be quantified. The methods developed here are generally applicable to systems with state leakage, noisy measurements, and non-orthogonal control axes.

id: 1302.1959
title: Entanglement entropy for a particle coupled with its surrounding
authors: Chisanupong Puttarprom, Sikarin Yoo-Kong, Monsit Tanasittikisol, Watchara Liewrian
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1959
abstract: We investigate the entanglement for a model of a particle moving in the lattice (many-body system). The interaction between the particle and the lattice is modelled using Hooke's law. The Feynman path integral approach is applied to compute the density matrix of the system. The complexity of the problem is reduced by considering two-body system (bipartite system). The spatial entanglement of ground state is studied using the linear entropy. We find that increasing the confining potential implies a large spatial separation between the two particles. Thus the interaction between the particles increases according to Hooke's law. This results in the increase in the spatial entanglement.

id: 1302.1985
title: Comparison of quantum and classical relaxation in spin dynamics
authors: R. Wieser
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.1985
abstract: The classical Landau-Lifshitz equation with damping term has been derived from the time evolution of a quantum mechanical wave function under the assumption of a non-hermitian Hamilton operator. Further, the trajectory of a classical spin $\mathrm{S}$ has been compared with the expectation value of the spin operator $\mathrm{\hat{S}}$. A good agreement between classical and quantum mechanical trajectories can be found for Hamiltonians linear in $\mathrm{\hat{S}}$ respectively $\mathrm{S}$. Quadratic or higher order terms in the Hamiltonian result in a disagreement.

id: 1302.2005
title: An artificial atom locked to natural atoms
authors: N. Akopian, R. Trotta, E. Zallo, S. Kumar, P. Atkinson, A. Rastelli, O. G. Schmidt, V. Zwiller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2005
abstract: Single-photon sources that emit photons at the same energy play a key role in the emerging concepts of quantum information, such as entanglement swapping, quantum teleportation and quantum networks. They can be realized in a variety of systems, where semiconductor quantum dots, or 'artificial atoms', are arguably among the most attractive. However, unlike 'natural atoms', no two artificial atoms are alike. This peculiarity is a serious hurdle for quantum information applications that require photonic quantum states with identical energies. Here we demonstrate a single artificial atom that generates photons with an absolute energy that is locked to an optical transition in a natural atom. Furthermore, we show that our system is robust and immune to drifts and fluctuations in the environment of the emitter. Our demonstration is crucial for realization of a large number of universally-indistinguishable solid-state systems at arbitrary remote locations, where frequency-locked artificial atoms might become fundamental ingredients.

id: 1302.2067
title: Spin and pseudospin symmetries of the Dirac equation with confining central potentials
authors: P. Alberto, A. S. de Castro, M. Malheiro
comments: 7 pages, uses revtex macros
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2067
abstract: We derive the node structure of the radial functions which are solutions of the Dirac equation with scalar $S$ and vector $V$ confining central potentials, in the conditions of exact spin or pseudospin symmetry, i.e., when one has $V=\pm S+C$, where $C$ is a constant. We show that the node structure for exact spin symmetry is the same as the one for central potentials which go to zero at infinity but for exact pseudospin symmetry the structure is reversed. We obtain the important result that it is possible to have positive energy bound solutions in exact pseudospin symmetry conditions for confining potentials of any shape, including naturally those used in hadron physics, from nuclear to quark models. Since this does not happen for potentials going to zero at large distances, used in nuclear relativistic mean-field potentials or in the atomic nucleus, this shows the decisive importance of the asymptotic behavior of the scalar and vector central potentials on the onset of pseudospin symmetry and on the node structure of the radial functions. Finally, we show that these results are still valid for negative energy bound solutions for anti-fermions.

id: 1302.2121
title: Spin dynamics of cold fermions with synthetic spin-orbit coupling
authors: I.V. Tokatly, E.Ya. Sherman
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 041602 (R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2121
abstract: We consider spin relaxation dynamics in cold Fermi gases with a pure-gauge spin-orbit coupling corresponding to recent experiments. We show that such experiments can give a direct access to the collisional spin drag rate, and establish conditions for the observation of spin drag effects. In the recent experiments the dynamics is found to be mainly ballistic leading to new regimes of reversible spin relaxation-like processes.

id: 1302.2138
title: Aharonov-Bohm quantum rings in high-Q microcavities
authors: A. M. Alexeev, I. A. Shelykh, M. E. Portnoi
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 085429 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2138
abstract: A single-mode microcavity with an embedded Aharonov-Bohm quantum ring, which is pierced by a magnetic flux and subjected to a lateral electric field, is studied theoretically. It is shown that external electric and magnetic fields provide additional means of control of the emission spectrum of the system. In particular, when the magnetic flux through the quantum ring is equal to a half-integer number of the magnetic flux quantum, a small change in the lateral electric field allows tuning of the energy levels of the quantum ring into resonance with the microcavity mode providing an efficient way to control the quantum ring-microcavity coupling strength. Emission spectra of the system are calculated for several combinations of the applied magnetic and electric fields.

id: 1302.2141
title: Polarizabilities, Stark shifts, and lifetimes of In atom
authors: M.S. Safronova, U.I. Safronova, S.G. Porsev
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2141
abstract: We evaluate the polarizabilities of the 5p_{1/2}, 6s, 6p_{1/2}, and 6p_{3/2} states of In using two different high-precision relativistic methods: linearized coupled-cluster approach where single, double and partial triple excitations of the Dirac-Fock wave function are included to all orders of perturbation theory and an approach that combines the configuration interaction and the coupled-cluster method. Extensive comparison of the accuracy of these methods is carried out. The uncertainties of all recommended values are evaluated. Our result for the 6s-5p_{1/2} Stark shift is in excellent agreement with the recent measurement [Ranjit et al., arXiv:1302.0821v1]. Combining our calculation with this precision measurement allows us to infer the values of the 6p_{1/2} and 6p_{3/2} lifetimes in In with 0.8% accuracy. Our predictions for the 6p_{3/2} scalar and tensor polarizabilities may be combined with the future measurement of the 6s-6p_{3/2} Stark shift to accurately determine the lifetimes of the 5d_j states.

id: 1302.2153
title: Imaging topological edge states in silicon photonics
authors: M. Hafezi, S. Mittal, J. Fan, A. Migdall, J. Taylor
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 1001 (2013) (v2 extended version)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2153
abstract: Topological features - global properties not discernible locally - emerge in systems from liquid crystals to magnets to fractional quantum Hall systems. Deeper understanding of the role of topology in physics has led to a new class of matter: topologically - ordered systems. The best known examples are quantum Hall effects, where insensitivity to local properties manifests itself as conductance through edge states that is insensitive to defects and disorder. Current research in engineering topological order primarily focuses on analogies to quantum Hall systems, where the required magnetic field is synthesized in non-magnetic systems. Here, we realize synthetic magnetic fields for photons at room temperature, using linear Silicon photonics. We observe, for the first time, topological edge states of light in a two - dimensional system and show their robustness against intrinsic and introduced disorder. Our experiment demonstrates the feasibility of using photonics to realize topological order in both the non-interacting and many-body regimes.

id: 1302.2694
title: Random cyclic matrices
authors: Sudhir R. Jain, Shashi C. L. Srivastava
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: S. R. Jain and S. C. L. Srivastava, Phys. Rev. E 78, 036213 (2008)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2694
abstract: We present a Gaussian ensemble of random cyclic matrices on the real field and study their spectral fluctuations. These cyclic matrices are shown to be pseudo-symmetric with respect to generalized parity. We calculate the joint probability distribution function of eigenvalues and the spacing distributions analytically and numerically. For small spacings, the level spacing distribution exhibits either a Gaussian or a linear form. Furthermore, for the general case of two arbitrary complex eigenvalues, leaving out the spacings among real eigenvalues, and, among complex conjugate pairs, we find that the spacing distribution agrees completely with the Wigner distribution for Poisson process on a plane. The cyclic matrices occur in a wide variety of physical situations, including disordered linear atomic chains and Ising model in two dimensions. These exact results are also relevant to two-dimensional statistical mechanics and $\nu$-parametrized quantum chromodynamics.

id: 1302.2696
title: Random reverse-cyclic matrices and screened harmonic oscillator
authors: Shashi C. L. Srivastava, Sudhir R. Jain
comments: 6 pages, 10 figures
journal: S. C. L. Srivastava and S. R. Jain, Phys. Rev. E 85, 041143 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2696
abstract: We have calculated the joint probability distribution function for random reverse-cyclic matrices and shown that it is related to an N-body exactly solvable model. We refer to this well-known model potential as a screened harmonic oscillator. The connection enables us to obtain all the correlations among the particle positions moving in a screened harmonic potential. The density of nontrivial eigenvalues of this ensemble is found to be of the Wigner form and admits a hole at the origin, in contrast to the semicircle law of the Gaussian orthogonal ensemble of random matrices. The spacing distributions assume different forms ranging from Gaussian-like to Wigner.

id: 1302.2738
title: RandFile package for Mathematica for accessing file-based sources of randomness
authors: J.A. Miszczak, M. Wahl
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, 3 tables, improved version of the software available from this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Mathematical Software (cs.MS); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2738
abstract: We present a package for Mathematica computer algebra system which allows the exploitation of local files as sources of random data. We provide the description of the package and illustrate its usage by showing some examples. We also compare the provided functionality with alternative sources of randomness, namely a built-in pseudo-random generator and the package for accessing hardware true random number generators.

id: 1302.2816
title: Characterization of a Quantum Light Source Based on Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion
authors: Thomas J. Huisman, Simon R. Huisman, Allard P. Mosk, Pepijn W.H. Pinkse
comments: 33 pages
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2816
abstract: We have built a quantum light source capable of producing different types of quantum states. The quantum light source is based on entangled state preparation in the process of spontaneous parametric down-conversion. The single-photon detection rate of eight-hundred thousand per second demonstrates that we have created a bright state-of-the-art quantum light source. As a part of the characterization we measured two-photon quantum interference in a Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer.

id: 1302.2826
title: Renyi entropies as a measure of the complexity of counting problems
authors: Claudio Chamon, Eduardo R. Mucciolo
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P04008
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2826
abstract: Counting problems such as determining how many bit strings satisfy a given Boolean logic formula are notoriously hard. In many cases, even getting an approximate count is difficult. Here we propose that entanglement, a common concept in quantum information theory, may serve as a telltale of the difficulty of counting exactly or approximately. We quantify entanglement by using Renyi entropies S(q), which we define by bipartitioning the logic variables of a generic satisfiability problem. We conjecture that S(q\rightarrow 0) provides information about the difficulty of counting solutions exactly, while S(q>0) indicates the possibility of doing an efficient approximate counting. We test this conjecture by employing a matrix computing scheme to numerically solve #2SAT problems for a large number of uniformly distributed instances. We find that all Renyi entropies scale linearly with the number of variables in the case of the #2SAT problem; this is consistent with the fact that neither exact nor approximate efficient algorithms are known for this problem. However, for the negated (disjunctive) form of the problem, S(q\rightarrow 0) scales linearly while S(q>0) tends to zero when the number of variables is large. These results are consistent with the existence of fully polynomial-time randomized approximate algorithms for counting solutions of disjunctive normal forms and suggests that efficient algorithms for the conjunctive normal form may not exist.

id: 1302.2853
title: Complexifier Versus Factorization and Deformation Methods For Generation of Coherent States of a 1D NLHO: I. Mathematical Construction
authors: R. Roknizadeh, H. Heydari
comments: To be Published in: Int. J. Geom. Meth. Mod. Physics
journal: Int. J. Geom. Meth. Mod. Phys. Vol. 10, No. 10 (2013) 1350056 (19 pages)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2853
abstract: Three methods: complexifier, factorization and deformation, for construction of coherent states are presented for one dimensional nonlinear harmonic oscillator (1D NLHO). Since by exploring the Jacobi polynomials $P_n^{a,b}$'s, bridging the difference between them is possible, we give here also the exact solution of Schr\"odinger equation of 1D NLHO in terms of Jacobi polynomials.

id: 1302.2859
title: Negative Energy Seen By Accelerated Observers
authors: L. H. Ford, Thomas A. Roman
comments: 26 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 085001 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2859
abstract: The sampled negative energy density seen by inertial observers, in arbitrary quantum states is limited by quantum inequalities, which take the form of an inverse relation between the magnitude and duration of the negative energy. The quantum inequalities severely limit the utilization of negative energy to produce gross macroscopic effects, such as violations of the second law of thermodynamics. The restrictions on the sampled energy density along the worldlines of accelerated observers are much weaker than for inertial observers. Here we will illustrate this with several explicit examples. We consider the worldline of a particle undergoing sinusoidal motion in space in the presence of a single mode squeezed vacuum state of the electromagnetic field. We show that it is possible for the integrated energy density along such a worldline to become arbitrarily negative at a constant average rate. Thus the averaged weak energy condition is violated in these examples.This can be the case even when the particle moves at non-relativistic speeds. We use the Raychaudhuri equation to show that there can be net defocussing of a congruence of these accelerated worldlines. This defocussing is an operational signature of the negative integrated energy density. These results in no way invalidate nor undermine either the validity or utility of the quantum inequalities for inertial observers. In particular, they do not change previous constraints on the production of macroscopic effects with negative energy, e.g., the maintenance of traversable wormholes.

id: 1302.2891
title: Induction-Detection Electron Spin Resonance with Sensitivity of 1000 Spins: En Route to Scalable Quantum Computations
authors: Aharon Blank, Ekaterina Dikarov, Roman Shklyar, Ygal Twig
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures + 1 supplementary page and 2 supplementary images
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2891
abstract: Spin-based quantum computation (QC) in the solid state is considered to be one of the most promising approaches to scalable quantum computers. However, it faces problems such as initializing the spins, selectively addressing and manipulating single spins, and reading out the state of the individual spins. We have recently sketched a scheme that potentially solves all of these problems5. This is achieved by making use of a unique phosphorus-doped 28Si sample (28Si:P), and applying powerful new electron spin resonance (ESR) techniques for parallel excitation, detection, and imaging in order to implement QCs and efficiently obtain their results. The beauty of our proposed scheme is that, contrary to other approaches, single-spin detection sensitivity is not required and a capability to measure signals of ~100-1000 spins is sufficient to implement it. Here we take the first experimental step towards the actual implementation of such scheme. We show that, by making use of the smallest ESR resonator constructed to date (~5 microns), together with a unique cryogenic amplification scheme and sub-micron imaging capabilities, a sensitivity of less than 1000 electron spin is obtained with spatial resolution of ~500 nm. This is the most sensitive induction-detection experiment carried out to date, and such capabilities put this approach on the fast track to the demonstration of a scalable QC capability.

id: 1302.2932
title: Atoms and Molecules in Intense Laser Fields: Gauge Invariance of Theory and Models
authors: Andr¨¦ D. Bandrauk, Fran?ois Fillion-Gourdeau, Emmanuel Lorin
comments: 43 pages, 5 figures
journal: 2013 J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 153001
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2932
abstract: Gauge invariance was discovered in the development of classical electromagnetism and was required when the latter was formulated in terms of the scalar and vector potentials. It is now considered to be a fundamental principle of nature, stating that different forms of these potentials yield the same physical description: they describe the same electromagnetic field as long as they are related to each other by gauge transformations. Gauge invariance can also be included into the quantum description of matter interacting with an electromagnetic field by assuming that the wave function transforms under a given local unitary transformation. The result of this procedure is a quantum theory describing the coupling of electrons, nuclei and photons. Therefore, it is a very important concept: it is used in almost every fields of physics and it has been generalized to describe electroweak and strong interactions in the standard model of particles. A review of quantum mechanical gauge invariance and general unitary transformations is presented for atoms and molecules in interaction with intense short laser pulses, spanning the perturbative to highly nonlinear nonperturbative interaction regimes. Various unitary transformations for single spinless particle Time Dependent Schr\"odinger Equations, TDSE, are shown to correspond to different time-dependent Hamiltonians and wave functions. Accuracy of approximation methods involved in solutions of TDSE's such as perturbation theory and popular numerical methods depend on gauge or representation choices which can be more convenient due to faster convergence criteria. We focus on three main representations: length and velocity gauges, in addition to the acceleration form which is not a gauge, to describe perturbative and nonperturbative radiative interactions. Numerical schemes for solving TDSE's in different representations are also discussed.

id: 1302.2970
title: Velocity selective trapping of atoms in a frequency-modulated standing laser wave
authors: V. Yu. Argonov
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Physics Letters 2013, 98, 655
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2970
abstract: The wave function of a moderately cold atom in a stationary near-resonant standing light wave delocalizes very fast due to wave packet splitting. However, we show that frequency modulation of the field may suppress packet splitting for some atoms having specific velocities in a narrow range. These atoms remain localized in a small space for a long time. We propose that in a real experiment with cold atomic gas this effect may decrease the velocity distribution of atoms (the field traps the atoms with such specific velocities while all other atoms leave the field)

id: 1302.3063
title: A three-beam setup for coherently controlling nuclear state population
authors: Wen-Te Liao, Adriana P¨¢lffy, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures and 4 tables. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1011.4423
journal: Phys. Rev. C 87, 054609 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3063
abstract: The controlled transfer of nuclear state population using two x-ray laser pulses is investigated theoretically. The laser pulses drive two nuclear transitions in a nuclear three-level system facilitating coherent population transfer via the quantum optics technique of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage. To overcome present limitations of the x-ray laser frequency, we envisage accelerated nuclei interacting with two copropagating or crossed x-ray laser pulses in a three-beam setup. We present a systematic study of this setup providing both pulse temporal sequence and laser pulse intensity for optimized control of the nuclear state population. The tolerance for geometrical parameters such as laser beam divergence of the three-beam setup as well as for the velocity spread of the nuclear beam are studied and a two-photon resonance condition to account for experimental uncertainties is deduced. This additional condition gives a less strict requirement for the experimental implementation of the three-beam setup. Present experimental state of the art and future prospects are discussed.

id: 1302.3117
title: Correspondence Between Classical and Quantum Theory by $f$-Deformed Coherent State
authors: R. Roknizadeh, S. A. A. Ghorashi, H. Heydari
comments: Presented in QTRF-6, June 11-14, 2012-Sweden
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1508 (2012), pp. 474-477 (4 pages)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3117
abstract: Generalized $f$-coherent state approach in deformation quantization framework is investigated by using a $\ast $-eigenvalue equation. For this purpose we introduce a new Moyal star product called $f$-star product, so that by using this ${\ast}_{f}$-eigenvalue equation one can obtain exactly the spectrum of a general Hamiltonian of a deformed system.

id: 1302.3138
title: Canonical Thermal Pure Quantum State
authors: Sho Sugiura, Akira Shimizu
comments: 5pages, 1figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 010401 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3138
abstract: A thermal equilibrium state of a quantum many-body system can be represented by a typical pure state, which we call a thermal pure quantum (TPQ) state. We construct the canonical TPQ state, which corresponds to the canonical ensemble of the conventional statistical mechanics. Only a single realization of the TPQ state gives all variables of statistical-mechanical interest. We show that TPQ states corresponding to different ensembles give identical thermodynamic results, and they are related by simple analytic transformations. We have thus completed the TPQ formulation of statistical mechanics. We also show that it has great advantages in practical applications.

id: 1302.3281
title: Two families of planar functions on F_{p^{2r}}
authors: Stephen M. Gagola III, Joanne L. Hall
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Commutative Algebra (math.AC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3281
abstract: Two new families of planar functions are constructed. These new families are part of a more general construction which also includes a family of planar functions recently constructed by Bierbrauer [Commutative semifields from projection mappings, Designs, Codes and Cryptography, 61 (2011), 187--196].

id: 1302.3298
title: Thermodynamics of Time Machines
authors: Michael Devin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3298
abstract: In this note, a brief review of the consistent state approach to systems containing closed timelike curves or similar devices is given, and applied to the well known thermodynamic problem of Maxwell's demon. The 'third party paradox' for acausal systems is defined and applied to CTC censorship and black hole evaporation. Some traditional arguments for chronology protection are re-examined.

id: 1302.3356
title: Characterization of affine automorphisms and ortho-order automorphisms of quantum probabilistic maps
authors: Zhaofang Bai, Shuanping Du
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3356
abstract: In quantum mechanics, often it is important for the representation of quantum system to study the structure-preserving bijective maps of the quantum system. Such maps are also called isomorphisms or automorphisms. In this note, using the Uhlhorn-type of Wigner's theorem, we characterize all affine automorphisms and ortho-order automorphisms of quantum probabilistic maps.

id: 1302.3419
title: Scattering Theory with Path Integrals
authors: R. Rosenfelder
comments: 13 pages, no figures, Latex with amsmath, amssymb; v2: small changes in text, typos corrected, Eq. (4) enlarged, Ref. 4 properly classified; v3: silly error in Eq. (30) corrected
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55 (2014), 032106
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3419
abstract: Starting from well-known expressions for the $T$-matrix and its derivative in standard nonrelativistic potential scattering I rederive recent path-integral formulations due to Efimov and Barbashov et al. Some new relations follow immediately.

id: 1302.3465
title: The Third Life of Quantum Logic: Quantum Logic Inspired by Quantum Computing
authors: J. Michael Dunn, Lawrence S. Moss, Zhenghan Wang
comments: To appear in a special issue of Journal of Philosophical Logic
journal: 
subjects: Logic (math.LO); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3465
abstract: We begin by discussing the history of quantum logic, dividing it into three eras or lives. The first life has to do with Birkhoff and von Neumann's algebraic approach in the 1930's. The second life has to do with attempt to understand quantum logic as logic that began in the late 1950's and blossomed in the 1970's. And the third life has to do with recent developments in quantum logic coming from its connections to quantum computation. We discuss our own work connecting quantum logic to quantum computation (viewing quantum logic as the logic of quantum registers storing qubits), and make some speculations about mathematics based on quantum principles.

id: 1302.3484
title: Parametric resonance in tunable superconducting cavities
authors: Waltraut Wustmann, Vitaly Shumeiko
comments: 25 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 184501 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3484
abstract: We develop a theory of parametric resonance in tunable superconducting cavities. The nonlinearity introduced by the SQUID attached to the cavity, and damping due to connection of the cavity to a transmission line are taken into consideration. We study in detail the nonlinear classical dynamics of the cavity field below and above the parametric threshold for the degenerate parametric resonance, featuring regimes of multistability and parametric radiation. We investigate the phase-sensitive amplification of external signals on resonance, as well as amplification of detuned signals, and relate the amplifier performance to that of linear parametric amplifiers. We also discuss applications of the device for dispersive qubit readout. Beyond the classical response of the cavity, we investigate small quantum fluctuations around the amplified classical signals. We evaluate the noise power spectrum both for the internal field in the cavity and the output field. Other quantum statistical properties of the noise are addressed such as squeezing spectra, second order coherence, and two-mode entanglement.

id: 1302.3504
title: Superconducting Vortex Lattices for Ultracold Atoms
authors: O. Romero-Isart, C. Navau, A. Sanchez, P. Zoller, J. I. Cirac
comments: Published Version. Manuscript: 5 pages, 3 figures. Supplementary Information: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 145304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3504
abstract: We propose and analyze a nanoengineered vortex array in a thin-film type-II superconductor as a magnetic lattice for ultracold atoms. This proposal addresses several of the key questions in the development of atomic quantum simulators. By trapping atoms close to the surface, tools of nanofabrication and structuring of lattices on the scale of few tens of nanometers become available with a corresponding benefit in energy scales and temperature requirements. This can be combined with the possibility of magnetic single site addressing and manipulation together with a favorable scaling of superconducting surface-induced decoherence.

id: 1302.3648
title: Causality and non-equilibrium second-order phase transitions in inhomogeneous systems
authors: A. del Campo, T. W. B. Kibble, W. H. Zurek
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures, minor changes, references added. Contribution to the special issue of J. Phys. Condensed Matter: "Condensed matter analogues of cosmology", edited by T. W. B. Kibble and A. Srivastava, published version
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 25, 404210 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3648
abstract: When a second-order phase transition is crossed at fine rate, the evolution of the system stops being adiabatic as a result of the critical slowing down in the neighborhood of the critical point. In systems with a topologically nontrivial vacuum manifold, disparate local choices of the ground state lead to the formation of topological defects. The universality class of the transition imprints a signature on the resulting density of topological defects: It obeys a power law in the quench rate, with an exponent dictated by a combination of the critical exponents of the transition. In inhomogeneous systems the situation is more complicated, as the spontaneous symmetry breaking competes with bias caused by the influence of the nearby regions that already chose the new vacuum. As a result, the choice of the broken symmetry vacuum may be inherited from the neighboring regions that have already entered the new phase. This competition between the inherited and spontaneous symmetry breaking enhances the role of causality, as the defect formation is restricted to a fraction of the system where the front velocity surpasses the relevant sound velocity and phase transition remains effectively homogeneous. As a consequence, the overall number of topological defects can be substantially suppressed. When the fraction of the system is small, the resulting total number of defects is still given by a power law related to the universality class of the transition, but exhibits a more pronounced dependence on the quench rate. This enhanced dependence complicates the analysis but may also facilitate experimental test of defect formation theories.

id: 1302.3680
title: Quantum Gravity on a Quantum Computer?
authors: Achim Kempf
comments: Discussion improved, same results, typos removed, references added
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3680
abstract: EPR-type measurements on spatially separated entangled spin qubits allow one, in principle, to detect curvature. Also the entanglement of the vacuum state is affected by curvature. Here, we ask if the curvature of spacetime can be expressed entirely in terms of the spatial entanglement structure of the vacuum. This would open up the prospect that quantum gravity could be simulated on a quantum computer and that quantum information techniques could be fully employed in the study of quantum gravity.

id: 1302.3803
title: Quantum anholonomy with topology change
authors: Taksu Cheon, Atushi Tanaka, Ond\vrej Turek
comments: 6 pages, 10 figures
journal: Acta Polytechnica (Prague) 53 (2013) 410-415
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3803
abstract: We study a family of closed quantum graphs described by one singular vertex of order n=4. By suitable choice of the parameters specifying the singular vertex, we can construct a closed sequence of paths in the parameter space that physically corresponds to the smooth interpolation of different topologies - a ring, separate two lines, separate two rings, two rings with a contact point. We find that the spectrum of a quantum particle on this family of graphs shows the quantum anholonomy.

id: 1302.3824
title: Tunable electromagnetic environment for superconducting quantum bits
authors: P. J. Jones, J. A. M. Huhtam?ki, J. Salmilehto, K. Y. Tan, M. M?tt?nen
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, final version
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 1987 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3824
abstract: We introduce a setup which realises a tunable engineered environment for experiments in circuit quantum electrodynamics. We illustrate this concept with the specific example of a quantum bit, qubit, in a high-quality-factor cavity which is capacitively coupled to another cavity including a resistor. The temperature of the resistor, which acts as the dissipative environment, can be controlled in a well defined manner in order to provide a hot or cold environment for the qubit, as desired. Furthermore, introducing superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) into the cavity containing the resistor, provides control of the coupling strength between this artificial environment and the qubit. We demonstrate that our scheme allows us to couple strongly to the environment enabling rapid initialization of the system, and by subsequent tuning of the magnetic flux of the SQUIDs we may greatly reduce the resistor-qubit coupling, allowing the qubit to evolve unhindered.

id: 1302.3831
title: Quantum Entanglement in Concept Combinations
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3831
abstract: Research in the application of quantum structures to cognitive science confirms that these structures quite systematically appear in the dynamics of concepts and their combinations and quantum-based models faithfully represent experimental data of situations where classical approaches are problematical. In this paper, we analyze the data we collected in an experiment on a specific conceptual combination, showing that Bell's inequalities are violated in the experiment. We present a new refined entanglement scheme to model these data within standard quantum theory rules, where 'entangled measurements and entangled evolutions' occur, in addition to the expected 'entangled states', and present a full quantum representation in complex Hilbert space of the data. This stronger form of entanglement in measurements and evolutions might have relevant applications in the foundations of quantum theory, as well as in the interpretation of nonlocality tests. It could indeed explain some non-negligible 'anomalies' identified in EPR-Bell experiments.

id: 1302.3850
title: Identifying Quantum Structures in the Ellsberg Paradox
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo, Jocelyn Tapia
comments: 16 pages, no figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1208.2354
journal: 
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3850
abstract: Empirical evidence has confirmed that quantum effects occur frequently also outside the microscopic domain, while quantum structures satisfactorily model various situations in several areas of science, including biological, cognitive and social processes. In this paper, we elaborate a quantum mechanical model which faithfully describes the 'Ellsberg paradox' in economics, showing that the mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics is capable to represent the 'ambiguity' present in this kind of situations, because of the presence of 'contextuality'. Then, we analyze the data collected in a concrete experiment we performed on the Ellsberg paradox and work out a complete representation of them in complex Hilbert space. We prove that the presence of quantum structure is genuine, that is, 'interference' and 'superposition' in a complex Hilbert space are really necessary to describe the conceptual situation presented by Ellsberg. Moreover, our approach sheds light on 'ambiguity laden' decision processes in economics and decision theory, and allows to deal with different Ellsberg-type generalizations, e.g., the 'Machina paradox'.

id: 1302.3927
title: The automatic additivity of $¦Î-$Lie derivations on von Neumann algebras
authors: Zhaofang Bai, Shuanping Du, Yu Guo
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3927
abstract: Let ${\mathcal M}$ be a von Neumann algebra with no central summands of type I$_1$. It is shown that every nonlinear $\xi-$Lie derivation ($\xi\neq 1$) on $\mathcal M$ is an additive derivation.

id: 1302.4031
title: Two particle excited states entanglement entropy in a one-dimensional ring
authors: Richard Berkovits
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 075141 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4031
abstract: The properties of the entanglement entropy (EE) of two particle excited states in a one-dimensional ring are studied. For a clean system we show analytically that as long as the momenta of the two particles are not close, the EE is twice the value of the EE of any single particle state. For almost identical momenta the EE is lower than this value. The introduction of disorder is numerically shown to lead to a decrease in the median EE of a two particle excited state, while interactions (which have no effect for the clean case) mitigate the decrease. For a ring which is of the same size as the localization length, interaction increase the EE of a typical two particle excited state above the clean system EE value.

id: 1302.4050
title: Predictability of measurements
authors: Balint Szabo
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4050
abstract: The second law of thermodynamics states that entropy increases (or does not change) by time in an isolated system. As microscopic physical laws are reversible, the origin of irreversibility is not straightforward. Although the outcome of a measurement on a pure quantum state is not fully predictable due to the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, quantum and finite entropy uncertainties are thought to be fundamentally different. We propose to calculate the predictability of measurements comprising both quantum and entropic uncertainties. We show that the unpredictability of measurements is identical to entropy in case of semiclassical statistical mechanics, and it increases by time in a pure entangled quantum state as a result of quantum measurement.

id: 1302.4262
title: Direct measurement of the van der Waals interaction between two Rydberg atoms
authors: Lucas B¨¦guin, Aline Vernier, Radu Chicireanu, Thierry Lahaye, Antoine Browaeys
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 263201 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4262
abstract: We report on the direct measurement of the van der Waals interaction between two isolated, single Rydberg atoms separated by a controlled distance of a few micrometers. By working in a regime where the single-atom Rabi frequency of the laser used for excitation to the Rydberg state is comparable to the interaction energy, we observe a \emph{partial} Rydberg blockade, whereby the time-dependent populations of the various two-atom states exhibit coherent oscillations with several frequencies. A quantitative comparison of the data with a simple model based on the optical Bloch equations allows us to extract the van der Waals energy, and to observe its characteristic $C_6/R^6$ dependence. The magnitude of the measured $C_6$ coefficient agrees well with an \emph{ab-initio} theoretical calculation, and we observe its dramatic increase with the principal quantum number $n$ of the Rydberg state. Our results not only allow to test an important physical law, but also demonstrate a degree of experimental control which opens new perspectives in quantum information processing and quantum simulation using long-range interactions between the atoms.

id: 1302.4322
title: Controlled coupling of photonic crystal cavities using photochromic tuning
authors: Tao Cai, Ranojoy Bose, Glenn S. Solomon, Edo Waks
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4322
abstract: We present a method to control the resonant coupling interaction in a coupled-cavity photonic crystal molecule by using a local and reversible photochromic tuning technique. We demonstrate the ability to tune both a two-cavity and a three-cavity photonic crystal molecule through the resonance condition by selectively tuning the individual cavities. Using this technique, we can quantitatively determine important parameters of the coupled-cavity system such as the photon tunneling rate. This method can be scaled to photonic crystal molecules with larger numbers of cavities, which provides a versatile method for studying strong interactions in coupled resonator arrays.

id: 1302.4356
title: Partial dynamical symmetry as a selection criterion for many-body interactions
authors: A. Leviatan, J.E. Garcia-Ramos, P. Van Isacker
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Phys. Rev. C, in press
journal: Phys. Rev. C 87 (2013) 021302(R)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4356
abstract: We propose the use of partial dynamical symmetry (PDS) as a selection criterion for higher-order terms in situations when a prescribed symmetry is obeyed by some states and is strongly broken in others. The procedure is demonstrated in a first systematic classification of many-body interactions with SU(3) PDS that can improve the description of deformed nuclei. As an example, the triaxial features of the nucleus 156Gd are analyzed.

id: 1302.4392
title: Comment on "Cooling by Heating: Refrigerator Powered by Photons"
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Karen V. Hovhannisyan, Guenter Mahler
comments: A shorter version of this two page paper was published as Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 248903 (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4392
abstract: Results obtained recently in Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 120603 (2012) by Cleuren et al. apparently contradict to the third law of thermodynamics. We discuss a scenario for resolving this contradiction, and show that this scenario is pertinent for clarifying the general message of the third law.

id: 1302.4408
title: Reaching 10 ms single photon lifetimes for superconducting aluminum cavities
authors: M. Reagor, Hanhee Paik, G. Catelani, L. Sun, C. Axline, E. Holland, I.M. Pop, N.A. Masluk, T. Brecht, L. Frunzio, M.H. Devoret, L.I. Glazman, R.J. Schoelkopf
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 192604 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4408
abstract: Three-dimensional microwave cavities have recently been combined with superconducting qubits in the circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) architecture. These cavities should have less sensitivity to dielectric and conductor losses at surfaces and interfaces, which currently limit the performance of planar resonators. We expect that significantly (>10^3) higher quality factors and longer lifetimes should be achievable for 3D structures. Motivated by this principle, we have reached internal quality factors greater than 0.5x10^9 and intrinsic lifetimes of 0.01 seconds for multiple aluminum superconducting cavity resonators at single photon energies and millikelvin temperatures. These improvements could enable long lived quantum memories with submicrosecond access times when strongly coupled to superconducting qubits.

id: 1302.4430
title: Role of Energy-Level Mismatches in a Multi-Pathway Complex of Photosynthesis
authors: James Lim, Junghee Ryu, Changhyoup Lee, Seokwon Yoo, Hyunseok Jeong, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 103002 (2011)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4430
abstract: Considering a multi-pathway structure in a light-harvesting complex of photosynthesis, we investigate the role of energy-level mismatches between antenna molecules in transferring the absorbed energy to a reaction center. We find a condition in which the antenna molecules faithfully play their roles: Their effective absorption ratios are larger than those of the receiver molecule directly coupled to the reaction center. In the absence of energy-level mismatches and dephasing noise, there arises quantum destructive interference between multiple paths that restricts the energy transfer. On the other hand, the destructive interference diminishes as asymmetrically biasing the energy-level mismatches and/or introducing quantum noise of dephasing for the antenna molecules, so that the transfer efficiency is greatly enhanced to near unity. Remarkably, the near-unity efficiency can be achieved at a wide range of asymmetric energy-level mismatches. Temporal characteristics are also optimized at the energy-level mismatches where the transfer efficiency is near unity. We discuss these effects, in particular, for the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex.

id: 1302.4453
title: Soft quantum vibrations of PT-symmetric nonlinear ion chain
authors: Philipp Strack, Vincenzo Vitelli
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, as published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053408 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4453
abstract: We theoretically study the quantum dynamics of transverse vibrations of a one-dimensional chain of trapped ions in harmonic potentials interacting via a Reggeon-type cubic nonlinearity that is nonunitary but preserves PT symmetry. We propose the notion of quantum fragility for the dissipative structural phase transition that spontaneously breaks the PT symmetry. In the quantum fragile regime, the nonlinearity dominates the response to mechanical perturbations and the chain supports neither the ordinary quantum phonons of a Luttinger liquid, nor the supersonic solitons that arise in classical fragile critical points in the absence of fluctuations. Quantum fluctuations, approximately captured within a one-loop renormalization group, give rise to mechanical excitations with a strongly momentum-dependent phonon velocity and dissipative spectral behavior. Observable signatures of the quantum fragile chain in trapped ion systems are discussed.

id: 1302.4498
title: A family of Alltop functions that are EA-inequivalent to the cubic function
authors: Joanne L. Hall, Asha Rao, Stephen M. Gagola III
comments: 15 pages
journal: IEEE Transactions on Communications, 61(11) 4722 - 4727 , 2013
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4498
abstract: Sequences with optimal correlation properties are much sought after for applications in communication systems. In 1980, Alltop (IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 26(3):350-354, 1980) described a set of sequences based on a cubic function and showed that these functions were optimal with respect to known bounds on auto and crosscorrelation. Subsequently these sequences were used to construct mutually unbiased bases, a structure of importance in quantum information theory. The key feature of this cubic function is that its difference function is a planar function. Functions with planar difference functions have been called \emph{Alltop functions}. This paper provides a new family of Alltop functions and establishes the use of Alltop functions for construction of sequence sets and MUBs.

id: 1302.4505
title: Coupling of two Dirac particles
authors: O. L. Berman, R. Ya. Kezerashvili, K. Ziegler
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1110.6744
journal: Physical Review A 87, 042513 (2013); Presented at the 20th International IUPAP Conference on Few-Body Problems in Physics, Poster PS 58,
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4505
abstract: A study of the formation of excitons as a problem of two Dirac particles in a gapped graphene layer and in two gapped graphene layers separated by a dielectric is presented. In the low energy limit the separation of the center-of-mass and relative motions is obtained. Analytical solutions for the wave function and energy dispersion for both cases when electron and hole interact via a Coulomb potential are found. It is shown that the energy spectrum and the effective exciton mass are functions of the energy gaps as well as interlayer separation in case of two layer gapped graphene.

id: 1302.4614
title: Exact solutions of the (2+1) Dimensional Dirac equation in a constant magnetic field in the presence of a minimal length
authors: L. Menculini, O. Panella, P. Roy
comments: 9 pages, to appear in Physical Review D
journal: Physical Review D 87, 065017 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4614
abstract: We study the (2+1) dimensional Dirac equation in an homogeneous magnetic field (relativistic Landau problem) within a minimal length, or generalized uncertainty principle -GUP-, scenario. We derive exact solutions for a given explicit representation of the GUP and provide expressions of the wave functions in the momentum representation. We find that in the minimal length case the degeneracy of the states is modified and that there are states that do not exist in the ordinary quantum mechanics limit (\beta -->0). We also discuss the mass-less case which may find application in describing the behavior of charged fermions in new materials like Graphene.

id: 1302.4797
title: Kronecker product in terms of Hubbard operators and the Clebsch-Gordan decomposition of SU(2)xSU(2)
authors: Oscar Rosas-Ortiz, Marco Enriquez
comments: 64 pages, no figures. Some references and two new sections have been included. The applications have been extended to the Hubbard and t-J models (Section 2.4) as well as to the diagonalization of the Hamiltonian in the Heisenberg model and to the solving of the Jaynes-Cummings problem in Hubbard notation (Section 3.4)
journal: Ann. Phys. 339 (2013) 218-265
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4797
abstract: We review the properties of the Kronecker (direct, or tensor) product of square matrices $A \otimes B \otimes C \cdots$ in terms of Hubbard operators. In its simplest form, a Hubbard operator $X_n^{i,j}$ can be expressed as the $n$-square matrix which has entry 1 in position $(i,j)$ and zero in all other entries. The algebra and group properties of the observables that define a multipartite quantum system are notably straightforward in such a framework. In particular, we use the Kronecker product in Hubbard notation to get the Clebsch-Gordan decomposition of the product group $SU(2) \times SU(2)$. Finally, the $n$-dimensional irreducible representations so obtained are used to derive closed forms of the Clebsch-Gordan coefficients that rule the addition of angular momenta. Our results can be further developed in many different directions.

id: 1302.4800
title: Redundancies in Nambu-Goldstone Bosons
authors: Haruki Watanabe, Hitoshi Murayama
comments: 4 pages; discussion improved, new references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 181601 (2013)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4800
abstract: We propose a simple criterion to identify when Nambu-Goldstone bosons (NGBs) for different symmetries are redundant. It solves an old mystery why crystals have phonons for spontaneously broken translations but no gapless excitations for equally spontaneously broken rotations. Similarly for a superfluid, the NGB for spontaneously broken Galilean symmetry is redundant with phonons. The most nontrivial example is Tkachenko mode for a vortex lattice in a superfluid, where phonons are redundant to the Tkachenko mode which is identified as the Boboliubov mode.

id: 1302.4822
title: Modular cryostat for ion trapping with surface-electrode ion traps
authors: Grahame Vittorini, Kenneth Wright, Kenneth R. Brown, Alexa W. Harter, S. Charles Doret
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 84, 043112 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4822
abstract: We present a simple cryostat purpose built for use with surface-electrode ion traps, designed around an affordable, large cooling power commercial pulse tube refrigerator. A modular vacuum enclosure with a single vacuum space facilitates interior access, and enables rapid turnaround and flexiblity for future modifications. Long rectangular windows provide nearly 360 degrees of optical access in the plane of the ion trap, while a circular bottom window near the trap enables NA 0.4 light collection without the need for in-vacuum optics. We evaluate the system's mechanical and thermal characteristics, and we quantify ion trapping performance by trapping 40Ca+, finding small stray electric fields, long ion lifetimes, and low ion heating rates.

id: 1302.4924
title: Quantum Entropic Ambiguities: Ethylene
authors: A. P. Balachandran, Amilcar R. de Queiroz, S. Vaidya
comments: 16 pages; V2: improvement of the arguments in section 3.3 on the entropic ambiguities. Some minor corrections and improvement of presentation in other parts as well
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4924
abstract: In a quantum system, there may be many density matrices associated with a state on an algebra of observables. For each density matrix, one can compute its entropy. These are in general different. Therefore one reaches the remarkable possibility that there may be many entropies for a given state [Private communication from R. Sorkin]. This ambiguity in entropy can often be traced to a gauge symmetry emergent from the non-trivial topological character of the configuration space of the underlying system. It can also happen in finite-dimensional matrix models. In the present work, we discuss this entropy ambiguity and its consequences for an ethylene molecule. This is a very simple and well-known system where these notions can be put to tests. Besides its intrinsic conceptual interest, the simplicity of this model can serve as an introduction to a similar discussion of systems such as coloured monopoles and the breaking of colour symmetry.

id: 1302.5044
title: On the spectral theory of Gesztesy-?eba realizations of 1-D Dirac operators with point interactions on a discrete set
authors: Raffaele Carlone, Mark Malamud, Andrea Posilicano
comments: accepted for publication in Journal of Differential Equations
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5044
abstract: We investigate spectral properties of Gesztesy-\v{S}eba realizations D_{X,\alpha} and D_{X,\beta} of the 1-D Dirac differential expression D with point interactions on a discrete set $X=\{x_n\}_{n=1}^\infty\subset \mathbb{R}.$ Here $\alpha := \{\alpha_{n}\}_{n=1}^\infty$ and \beta :=\{\beta_{n}\}_{n=1}^\infty \subset\mathbb{R}. The Gesztesy-\v{S}eba realizations $D_{X,\alpha}$ and $D_{X,\beta}$ are the relativistic counterparts of the corresponding Schr\"odinger operators $H_{X,\alpha}$ and $H_{X,\beta}$ with $\delta$- and $\delta'$-interactions, respectively. We define the minimal operator D_X as the direct sum of the minimal Dirac operators on the intervals $(x_{n-1}, x_n)$. Then using the regularization procedure for direct sum of boundary triplets we construct an appropriate boundary triplet for the maximal operator $D_X^*$ in the case $d_*(X):=\inf\{|x_i-x_j| \,, i\not=j\} = 0$. It turns out that the boundary operators $B_{X,\alpha}$ and $B_{X,\beta}$ parameterizing the realizations D_{X,\alpha} and D_{X,\beta} are Jacobi matrices. These matrices substantially differ from the ones appearing in spectral theory of Schr\"odinger operators with point interactions. We show that certain spectral properties of the operators $D_{X,\alpha}$ and $D_{X,\beta}$ correlate with the corresponding spectral properties of the Jacobi matrices $B_{X,\alpha}$ and $B_{X,\beta}$, respectively. Using this connection we investigate spectral properties (self-adjointness, discreteness, absolutely continuous and singular spectra) of Gesztesy--{\vS}eba realizations. Moreover, we investigate the non-relativistic limit as the velocity of light $c\to\infty$. Most of our results are new even in the case $d_*(X)> 0.$

id: 1302.5083
title: Hydrodynamic description of Hard-core Bosons on a Galileo ramp
authors: Pierre Wendenbaum, Mario Collura, Dragi Karevski
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023624 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5083
abstract: We study the quantum evolution of a cloud of hard-core bosons loaded on a one-dimensional optical lattice after its sudden release from a harmonic trap. Just after the trap has been removed, a linear ramp potential is applied, mimicking the so called Galileo ramp experiment. The non-equilibrium expansion of the bosonic cloud is elucidated through a hydrodynamical description which is compared to the exact numerical evolution obtained by exact diagonalization on finite lattice sizes. The system is found to exhibit a rich behavior showing in particular Bloch oscillations of a self-trapped condensate and an ejected particle density leading to two diverging entangled condensates. Depending on the initial density of the gas different regimes of Josephson-like oscillations are observed. At low densities, the trapped part of the cloud is in a superfluid phase that oscillates in time as a whole. At higher densities, the trapped condensate is in a mixed superfluid-Mott phase that show a breathing regime for steep enough potential ramps.

id: 1302.5107
title: Van der Waals and Casimir interactions between two graphene sheets
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.87, 075439 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5107
abstract: The thermal free energy and pressure of dispersion interaction between two graphene sheets described by the Dirac model are calculated using the Lifshitz formula with reflection coefficients expressed via the polarization tensor. The obtained results for a pristine graphene are found to be in agreement with computations using Coulomb coupling between density fluctuations. For a graphene with nonzero mass gap parameter a qualitatively different behavior for the free energy and pressure is obtained. The Lifshitz formula with reflection coefficients expressed via the polarization tensor is used as a test for different computational approaches proposed in the literature for modeling the response function and conductivity of graphene at both zero and nonzero temperature.

id: 1302.5133
title: Q#, a quantum computation package for the .NET platform
authors: A. S. Tolba, M. Z. Rashad, M. A. El-Dosuky
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Mathematical Software (cs.MS); Programming Languages (cs.PL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5133
abstract: Quantum computing is a promising approach of computation that is based on equations from Quantum Mechanics. A simulator for quantum algorithms must be capable of performing heavy mathematical matrix transforms. The design of the simulator itself takes one of three forms: Quantum Turing Machine, Network Model or circuit model of connected gates or, Quantum Programming Language, yet, some simulators are hybrid. We studied previous simulators and then we adopt features from three simulators of different implementation languages, different paradigms, and for different platforms. They are Quantum Computing Language (QCL), QUASI, and Quantum Optics Toolbox for Matlab 5. Our simulator for quantum algorithms takes the form of a package or a programming library for Quantum computing, with a case study showing the ability of using it in the circuit model. The .NET is a promising platform for computing. VB.NET is an easy, high productive programming language with the full power and functionality provided by the .NET framework. It is highly readable, writeable, and flexible language, compared to another language such as C#.NET in many aspects. We adopted VB.NET although its shortage in built-in mathematical complex and matrix operations, compared to Matlab. For implementation, we first built a mathematical core of matrix operations. Then, we built a quantum core which contains: basic qubits and register operations, basic 1D, 2D, and 3D quantum gates, and multi-view visualization of the quantum state, then a window for demos to show you how to use and get the most of the package.

id: 1302.5140
title: Exotic spin orders driven by orbital fluctuations in the Kugel-Khomskii model
authors: Wojciech Brzezicki, Jacek Dziarmaga, Andrzej M. Ole?
comments: 17 pages, 15 figures
journal: Physical Review B 87, 064407 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5140
abstract: We study zero temperature phase diagram of the three-dimensional Kugel-Khomskii model on a cubic lattice using the cluster mean field theory and different perturbative expansions in the orbital sector. The phase diagram is rich, goes beyond the single-site mean field theory due to spin-orbital entanglement. In addition to the antiferromagnetic (AF) and ferromagnetic (FM) phases, one finds also a plaquette valence-bond phase with singlets ordered either on horizontal or vertical bonds. More importantly, for increasing Hund's exchange we identify three phases with exotic magnetic order stabilized by orbital fluctuations in between the AF and FM order: (i) an AF phase with two mutually orthogonal antiferromagnets on two sublattices in each $ab$ plane and AF order along the c axis (ortho-$G$-type phase), (ii) a canted-$A$-type AF phase with a non-trivial canting angle between nearest neighbor FM layers along the c axis, and (iii) a striped-AF phase with anisotropic AF order in the $ab$ planes. We elucidate the mechanism responsible for each of the above phases by deriving effective spin models which involve second and third neighbor Heisenberg interactions as well as four-site spin interactions going beyond Heisenberg physics, and explain how the entangled nearest neighbor spin-orbital superexchange generates spin interactions between more distant spins.

id: 1302.5147
title: Partial-measurement back-action and non-classical weak values in a superconducting circuit
authors: J. P. Groen, D. Rist¨¨, L. Tornberg, J. Cramer, P. C. de Groot, T. Picot, G. Johansson, L. DiCarlo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, and Supplementary Information (8 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 090506 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5147
abstract: We realize indirect partial measurement of a transmon qubit in circuit quantum electrodynamics by interaction with an ancilla qubit and projective ancilla measurement with a dedicated readout resonator. Accurate control of the interaction and ancilla measurement basis allows tailoring the measurement strength and operator. The tradeoff between measurement strength and qubit back-action is characterized through the distortion of a qubit Rabi oscillation imposed by ancilla measurement in different bases. Combining partial and projective qubit measurements, we provide the solid-state demonstration of the correspondence between a non-classical weak value and the violation of a Leggett-Garg inequality.

id: 1302.5234
title: Quadrupole transitions in the bound rotational-vibrational spectrum of the deuterium molecular ion
authors: Horacio Olivares Pil¨®n
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5234
abstract: After the study of the three body molecular system H$_2^+$ ({\it J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys.} {\bf 45} 065101), its isotopomer, the deuterium molecular ion D$_2^+$ is studied. The three-body Schr\"odinger equation is solved using the Lagrange-mesh method in perimetric coordinates. Energies and wave functions for four vibrational states $v=0-3$ and bound or quasibound states for total orbital momenta from 0 to 56 are calculated. The 1986 fundamental constant $m_d=3670.483014\,m_e$ is used. The obtained energies have an accuracy from about 13 digits for the lowest vibrational state to at least 9 digits for the third vibrational excited state. Quadrupole transition probabilities per time unit between those states over the whole rotational bands were calculated. Extensive results are presented with six significant figures.

id: 1302.5269
title: Resonances on hedgehog manifolds
authors: Pavel Exner, Jiri Lipovsky
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5269
abstract: We discuss resonances for a nonrelativistic and spinless quantum particle confined to a two- or three-dimensional Riemannian manifold to which a finite number of semiinfinite leads is attached. Resolvent and scattering resonances are shown to coincide in this situation. Next we consider the resonances together with embedded eigenvalues and ask about the high-energy asymptotics of such a family. For the case when all the halflines are attached at a single point we prove that all resonances are in the momentum plane confined to a strip parallel to the real axis, in contrast to the analogous asymptotics in some metric quantum graphs; we illustrate it on several simple examples. On the other hand, the resonance behaviour can be influenced by a magnetic field. We provide an example of such a `hedgehog' manifold at which a suitable Aharonov-Bohm flux leads to absence of any true resonance, i.e. that corresponding to a pole outside the real axis.

id: 1302.5285
title: Scaling of the entanglement spectrum near quantum phase transitions
authors: L. Lepori, G. De Chiara, A. Sanpera
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87 235107 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5285
abstract: The entanglement spectrum describing quantum correlations in many-body systems has been recently recognized as a key tool to characterize different quantum phases, including topological ones. Here we derive its analytically scaling properties in the vicinity of some integrable quantum phase transitions and extend our studies also to non integrable quantum phase transitions in one dimensional spin models numerically. Our analysis shows that, in all studied cases, the scaling of the difference between the two largest non degenerate Schmidt eigenvalues yields with good accuracy critical points and mass scaling exponents.

id: 1302.5350
title: Plane SPDC-Quantum Mirror
authors: M. L. D. Ion, D. B. Ion
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0810.3401
journal: Rom. J. Phys. 45 (2000) 15-23
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5350
abstract: In this paper the kinematical correlations from the phase conjugated optics (equivalently with crossing symmetric spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC) phenomena) in the nonlinear crystals are used for the description of a new kind of optical device called SPDC-quantum mirrors. Then, some important laws of the plane SPDC-quantum mirrors combined with usual mirrors or lens are proved only by using geometric optics concepts. In particular, these results allow us to obtain a new interpretation of the recent experiments on the two-photon geometric optics.

id: 1302.5362
title: Remarks on the Aharonov-Casher dynamics in a CPT-odd Lorentz-violating background
authors: E. O. Silva, F. M. Andrade
comments: Matches published version
journal: Europhysics Letters 101, 51005 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5362
abstract: The Aharonov-Casher problem in the presence of a Lorentz-violating background nonminimally coupled to a spinor and a gauge field is examined. Using an approach based on the self-adjoint extension method, an expression for the bound state energies is obtained in terms of the physics of the problem by determining the self-adjoint extension parameter.

id: 1302.5382
title: Reversible Logic Synthesis by Quantum Rotation Gates
authors: Afshin Abdollahi, Mehdi Saeedi, Massoud Pedram
comments: 19 pages, 17 figures
journal: A. Abdollahi, M. Saeedi, and M. Pedram, "Reversible Logic Synthesis by Quantum Rotation Gates," Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 13, No. 9-10, 2013
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5382
abstract: A rotation-based synthesis framework for reversible logic is proposed. We develop a canonical representation based on binary decision diagrams and introduce operators to manipulate the developed representation model. Furthermore, a recursive functional bi-decomposition approach is proposed to automatically synthesize a given function. While Boolean reversible logic is particularly addressed, our framework constructs intermediate quantum states that may be in superposition, hence we combine techniques from reversible Boolean logic and quantum computation. The proposed approach results in quadratic gate count for multiple-control Toffoli gates without ancillae, linear depth for quantum carry-ripple adder, and quasilinear size for quantum multiplexer.

id: 1302.5398
title: A Quantum Version of The Spectral Decomposition Theorem of Dynamical Systems, Quantum Chaos Hierarchy: Ergodic, Mixing and Exact
authors: Ignacio Gomez, Mario Castagnino
comments: Chaos, Solitons & Fractals (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5398
abstract: In this paper we study Spectral Decomposition Theorem [1] and translate it to quantum language by means of the Wigner transform. We obtain a quantum version of Spectral Decomposition Theorem (QSDT) which enables us to achieve three distinct goals: First, to rank Quantum Ergodic Hierarchy levels [2,3]. Second, to analyze the classical limit in quantum ergodic systems and quantum mixing systems. And third, and maybe most important feature, to find a relevant and simple connection between the first three levels of quantum ergodic hierarchy (ergodic, exact and mixing) and quantum spectrum. Finally, we illustrate the physical relevance of QSDT applying it to two examples: Microwave billiards [4,5] and a phenomenological Gamow model type [6,7].

id: 1302.5509
title: Coexistence of diffusive and ballistic transport in a simple spin ladder
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 070602 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5509
abstract: We show that in a nonintegrable spin ladder system with the XX type of coupling along the legs and the XXZ type along the rungs there are invariant subspaces that support ballistic magnetization transport. In the complementary subspace the transport is found to be diffusive. This shows that (i) quantum chaotic systems can possess ballistic subspaces, and (ii) diffusive and ballistic transport modes can coexist in a rather simple nonintegrable model. In the limit of an infinite anisotropy in rungs the system studied is equivalent to the one-dimensional Hubbard model.

id: 1302.5517
title: Entanglement Spectra and Entanglement Thermodynamics of Hofstadter Bilayers
authors: John Schliemann
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures, minor adjustments, some comments (and pertaining references) added to conclusions, version to appear in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys 15, 053017 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5517
abstract: We study Hofstadter bilayers, i.e. coupled hopping models on two-dimensional square lattices in a perpendicular magnetic field. Upon tracing out one of the layers, we find an explicit expression for the resulting entanglement spectrum in terms of the energy eigenvalues of the underlying monolayer system. For strongly coupled layers the entanglement Hamiltonian is proportional to the energetic Hamiltonian of the monolayer system. The proportionality factor, however, cannot be interpreted as the inverse thermodynamic temperature, but represents a phenomenological temperature scale. We derive an explicit relation between both temperature scales which is in close analogy to a standard result of classic thermodynamics. In the limit of vanishing temperature, thermodynamic quantities such as entropy and inner energy approach their ground-state values, but show a fractal structure as a function of magnetic flux.

id: 1302.5537
title: Simulating fermion production in 1+1 dimensional QED
authors: Florian Hebenstreit, J¨¹rgen Berges, Daniil Gelfand
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures. Revised version: Discussion extended in section III.A.2, PRD Version
journal: Phys.Rev.D87:105006,2013
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5537
abstract: We investigate fermion--anti-fermion production in 1+1 dimensional QED using real-time lattice techniques. In this non-perturbative approach the full quantum dynamics of fermions is included while the gauge field dynamics can be accurately represented by classical-statistical simulations for relevant field strengths. We compute the non-equilibrium time evolution of gauge invariant correlation functions implementing 'low-cost' Wilson fermions. Introducing a lattice generalization of the Dirac-Heisenberg-Wigner function, we recover the Schwinger formula in 1+1 dimensions in the limit of a static background field. We discuss the decay of the field due to the backreaction of the created fermion--anti-fermion pairs and apply the approach to strongly inhomogeneous gauge fields. The latter allows us to discuss the striking phenomenon of a linear rising potential building up between produced fermion bunches after the initial electric pulse ceased.

id: 1302.5558
title: Generation of non-classical photon states in superconducting quantum metamaterials
authors: S. I. Mukhin, M. V. Fistul
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, special focus issue of the Superconductor Science and Technology
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5558
abstract: We report a theoretical study of diverse non-classical photon states that can be realized in superconducting quantum metamaterials. As a particular example of superconducting quantum metamaterials an array of SQUIDs incorporated in a low-dissipative transmission line (resonant cavity) will be studied. This system will be modeled as a set of two-levels systems (qubits) strongly interacting with resonant cavity photons. We predict and analyze {a second(first)-order phase transition} between an incoherent (the high-temperature phase) and coherent (the low-temperatures phase) states of photons. In equilibrium state the partition function $Z$ of the electromagnetic field (EF) in the cavity is determined by the effective action $S_{eff}\{P(\tau)\}$ that, in turn, depends on imaginary-time dependent momentum of photon field $P(\tau)$. We show that the order parameter of this phase transition is the $P_{0}(\tau)$ minimizing the effective action of a whole system. In the incoherent state the order parameter $P_{0}(\tau)=0$ but at low temperatures we obtain various coherent states characterized by non-zero values of $P_{0}(\tau)$. This phase transition in many aspects resembles the Peierls metal-insulator and the metal-superconductor phase transitions. The critical temperature of such phase transition $T^\star$ is determined by the energy splitting of two-level systems $\Delta$, a number of SQUIDs in the array $N$, and the strength of the interaction $\eta$ between SQUIDs and photons in cavity.

id: 1302.5582
title: Matrix product states and variational methods applied to critical quantum field theory
authors: Ashley Milsted, Jutho Haegeman, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 24 pages, 21 figures, with a minor improvement to the QFT section
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 085030 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5582
abstract: We study the second-order quantum phase-transition of massive real scalar field theory with a quartic interaction ($\phi^4$ theory) in (1+1) dimensions on an infinite spatial lattice using matrix product states (MPS). We introduce and apply a naive variational conjugate gradient method, based on the time-dependent variational principle (TDVP) for imaginary time, to obtain approximate ground states, using a related ansatz for excitations to calculate the particle and soliton masses and to obtain the spectral density. We also estimate the central charge using finite-entanglement scaling. Our value for the critical parameter agrees well with recent Monte Carlo results, improving on an earlier study which used the related DMRG method, verifying that these techniques are well-suited to studying critical field systems. We also obtain critical exponents that agree, as expected, with those of the transverse Ising model. Additionally, we treat the special case of uniform product states (mean field theory) separately, showing that they may be used to investigate non-critical quantum field theories under certain conditions.

id: 1302.5584
title: On the non-uniqueness problem of the covariant Dirac theory and the spin-rotation coupling
authors: Mayeul Arminjon
comments: 17 pages. V2: Version to appear in Int. J. Theor. Phys.: Details about the (gross) inequivalence of the Hamiltonians with either the inertial tetrad or the rotating one on pp. 11-12. Added Appendix proving that, for the (standard) covariant Dirac equation, the mean values of the energy can not be shifted by a constant after a smooth change of the tetrad field. Added Footnote 2 on p. 4
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys., vol. 52, No. 11, pp. 4032-4044 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5584
abstract: Gorbatenko & Neznamov [arXiv:1301.7599] recently claimed the absence of the title problem. In this paper, the reason for that problem is reexplained by using the notions of a unitary transformation and of the mean value of an operator, invoked by them. Their arguments actually aim at proving the uniqueness of a particular prescription for solving this problem. But that prescription is again shown non-unique. Two Hamiltonians in the same reference frame in a Minkowski spacetime, only one of them including the spin-rotation coupling term, are proved to be physically non-equivalent. This confirms that the reality of that coupling should be checked experimentally.

id: 1302.5601
title: Numerical Methods and Causality in Physics
authors: Muhammad Adeel Ajaib
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5601
abstract: We discuss physical implications of the explicit method in numerical analysis. Numerical methods have there own condition for causality, known as the Courant-Friedrichs-Lewy condition. It is proposed that numerical causality merges with physical causality as the grid interval size approaches zero. We discuss the implications of this proposition on the numerical analysis of the wave equation. We also show that, insisting on physical causality, the numerical analysis of Schrodinger's equation implies that the minimum space interval should satisfy $\Delta x \ge a_0 \lambda_c$, where $\lambda_c$ is the reduced Compton wavelength and $a_0$ is a constant of the order unity.

id: 1302.5703
title: Holographic Local Quenches and Entanglement Density
authors: Masahiro Nozaki, Tokiro Numasawa, Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: 41 pages, 19 figures, minor change
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5703
abstract: We propose a free falling particle in an AdS space as a holographic model of local quench. Local quenches are triggered by local excitations in a given quantum system. We calculate the time-evolution of holographic entanglement entropy. We confirm a logarithmic time-evolution, which is known to be typical in two dimensional local quenches. To study the structure of quantum entanglement in general quantum systems, we introduce a new quantity which we call entanglement density and apply this analysis to quantum quenches. We show that this quantity is directly related to the energy density in a small size limit. Moreover, we find a simple relationship between the amount of quantum information possessed by a massive object and its total energy based on the AdS/CFT.

id: 1302.5731
title: Bound states and scattering coefficients of self-adjoint Hamiltonians with a mass jump
authors: L. A. Gonzalez-Diaz, S. Diaz-Solorzano
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5731
abstract: Physical self-adjoint extensions and their spectra of the simplest one-dimensional Hamiltonian operator in which the mass is constant except for a finite jump at one point of the real axis are correctly found. Some self-adjoint extensions are used to model different kinds of semiconductor heterojunctions within the effective-mass approximation. Their properties and relation to different boundary conditions on envelope wave functions are studied. The limiting case of equal masses (with no mass jump) are reviewed.

id: 1302.5884
title: Cosmological dark energy effects from entanglement
authors: S. Capozziello, O. Luongo, S. Mancini
comments: 5 pages, to be published in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Physics Letters A 377 (2013) 1061-1064
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5884
abstract: The thorny issue of relating information theory to cosmology is here addressed by assuming a possible connection between quantum entanglement measures and observable universe. In particular, we propose a cosmological toy model, where the equation of state of the cosmological fluid, which drives the today observed cosmic acceleration, can be inferred from quantum entanglement between different cosmological epochs. In such a way the dynamical dark energy results as byproduct of quantum entanglement.

id: 1302.5933
title: Mapping trapped atomic gas with spin-orbit coupling to quantum Rabi-like model
authors: Haiping Hu, Shu Chen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5933
abstract: We construct a connection of the ultracold atomic system in a harmonic trap with Raman-induced spin-orbit coupling to the quantum Rabi-like model. By mapping the trapped atomic system to a Rabi-like model, we can get the exact solution of the Rabi-like model following the methods to solve the quantum Rabi model. The existence of such a mapping implies that we can study the basic model in quantum optics by using trapped atomic gases with spin-orbit coupling.

id: 1302.6027
title: Improvement of the matching of the exact solution and variational approaches in an interacting two-fermion system
authors: Yanxia Liu, Jun Ye, Yuanyuan Li, Yunbo Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6027
abstract: A more reasonable trial ground state wave function is constructed for the relative motion of an interacting two-fermion system in a 1D harmonic potential. At the boundaries both the wave function and its first derivative are continuous and the quasi-momentum is determined by a more practical constraint condition which associates two variational parameters. The upper bound of the ground state energy is obtained by applying the variational principle to the expectation value of the Hamiltonian of relative motion on the trial wave function. The resulted energy and wave function show better agreement with the analytical solution than the original proposal.

id: 1302.6037
title: From dynamical systems to renormalization
authors: Frederic Menous
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6037
abstract: We study in this paper logarithmic derivatives associated to derivations on graded complete Lie algebra, as well as the existence of inverses. These logarithmic derivatives, when invertible, generalize the exp-log correspondence between a Lie algebra and its Lie group. Such correspondences occur naturally in the study of dynamical systems when dealing with the linearization of vector fields and the non-linearizability of a resonant vector fields corresponds to the non-invertibility of a logarithmic derivative and to the existence of normal forms. These concepts, stemming from the theory of dynamical systems, can be rephrased in the abstract setting of Lie algebra and the same difficulties as in perturbative quantum field theory (pQFT) arise here. Surprisingly, one can adopt the same ideas as in pQFT with fruitful results such as new constructions of normal forms with the help of the Birkhoff decomposition. The analogy goes even further (locality of counter terms, choice of a renormalization scheme) and shall lead to more interactions between dynamical systems and quantum field theory.

id: 1302.6112
title: Periodicity of the time-dependent Kohn-Sham equation and the Floquet theorem
authors: V. Kapoor, M. Ruggenthaler, D. Bauer
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, PDFLatex, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6112
abstract: The Floquet theorem allows to reformulate periodic time-dependent problems such as the interaction of a many-body system with a laser field in terms of time-independent, field-dressed states, also known as Floquet states. If this was possible for density functional theory as well, one could reduce in such cases time-dependent density functional theory to a time-independent Floquet density functional theory. We analyze under which conditions the Floquet theorem is applicable in a density-functional framework. By employing numerical {\em ab initio} solutions of the interacting time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation with time-periodic external potentials we show that the exact effective potential in the corresponding Kohn-Sham equation is {\em not} unconditionally periodic. Whenever several Floquet states in the interacting system are involved in a physical process the corresponding Hartree-exchange-correlation potential is not periodic with the external frequency only. Using an analytically solvable example we demonstrate that, in general, the periodicity of the time-dependent Kohn-Sham Hamiltonian cannot be restored by choosing a different initial state. Only if the external periodic potential is sufficiently weak such that the initial state of the interacting system evolves adiabatically to a single, field-dressed state, the resulting Kohn-Sham system admits the application of the Floquet theorem.

id: 1302.6146
title: Comment on "Correlated electron-nuclear dynamics: Exact factorization of the molecular wavefunction" [J. Chem. Phys. 137, 22A530 (2012)]
authors: J. L. Alonso, J. Clemente-Gallardo, P. Echenique-Robba, J. A. Jover-Galtier
comments: 2 pages, published version
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 087101 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6146
abstract: In spite of the relevance of the proposal introduced in the recent work A. Abedi, N. T. Maitra and E. K. U. Gross, J. Chem. Phys. 137, 22A530, 2012, there is an important ingredient which is missing. Namely, the proof that the norms of the electronic and nuclear wavefunctions which are the solutions to the nonlinear equations of motion are preserved by the evolution. To prove the conservation of these norms is precisely the objective of this Comment.

id: 1302.6157
title: Minimization of ion micromotion using ultracold atomic probes
authors: A. H?rter, A. Kr¨¹kow, A. Brunner, J. Hecker Denschlag
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6157
abstract: We report on a new sensitive method to minimize excess micromotion of an ion in a Paul trap. The ion is placed in an ultracold cloud of neutral Rb atoms in which ionic micromotion induces atomic losses and heating. Micromotion is minimized by applying static electric offset fields such that both loss and heating are minimized. We achieve a compensation precision as high as the best compensation methods to date. In contrast to these methods, our scheme is applicable even for ions that cannot be optically probed. Furthermore, our method avoids the formation of temporary patch charges which are a main issue for the long-term stability of micromotion minimization.

id: 1302.6187
title: The intermediate level statistics in dynamically localized chaotic eigenstates
authors: Benjamin Batisti?, Thanos Manos, Marko Robnik
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures (published in EPL)
journal: EPL 102 (2013) 50008
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6187
abstract: We demonstrate that the energy or quasienergy level spacing distribution in dynamically localized chaotic eigenstates is excellently described by the Brody distribution, displaying the fractional power law level repulsion. This we show in two paradigmatic systems, namely for the fully chaotic eigenstates of the kicked rotator at K=7, and for the chaotic eigenstates in the mixed-type billiard system (Robnik 1983), after separating the regular and chaotic eigenstates by means of the Poincar\'e Husimi function, at very high energies with great statistical significance (587654 eigenstates, starting at about 1.000.000 above the ground state). This separation confirms the Berry-Robnik picture, and is performed for the first time at such high energies.

id: 1302.6206
title: Analysis of shot noise in the detection of ultrashort optical pulse trains
authors: Franklyn Quinlan, Tara M. Fortier, Haifeng Jiang, Scott A. Diddams
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures. Submitted to JOSA B
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6206
abstract: We present a frequency domain model of shot noise in the photodetection of ultrashort optical pulse trains using a time-varying analysis. Shot noise-limited photocurrent power spectral densities, signal-to-noise expressions, and shot noise spectral correlations are derived that explicitly include the finite response of the photodetector. It is shown that the strength of the spectral correlations in the shot noise depends on the optical pulse width, and that these correlations can create orders-of-magnitude imbalance between the shot noise-limited amplitude and phase noise of photonically generated microwave carriers. It is also shown that only by accounting for spectral correlations can shot noise be equated with the fundamental quantum limit in the detection of optical pulse-to-pulse timing jitter.

id: 1302.6226
title: Angle-Resolved Spectroscopy of Parametric Fluorescence
authors: Feng-kuo Hsu, Chih-Wei Lai
comments: 1 table, 7 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 15, pp. 18538-18552 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6226
abstract: The parametric fluorescence from a nonlinear crystal forms a conical radiation pattern. We measure the angular and spectral distributions of parametric fluorescence in a beta-barium borate crystal pumped by a 405-nm diode laser employing angle-resolved imaging spectroscopy. The experimental angle-resolved spectra and the generation efficiency of parametric down conversion are compared with a plane-wave theoretical analysis. The parametric fluorescence is used as a broadband light source for the calibration of the instrument spectral response function in the wavelength range from 450 to 1000 nm.

id: 1302.6349
title: "Polar" and "antiferromagnetic" order in f=1 many-boson systems
authors: Hal Tasaki
comments: 5 pages. version 2: some changes in the introduction and the discussion on the symmetry breaking. This version will appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6349
abstract: In a system of interacting f=1 bosons (in the subspace where the total spin in the z-direction is vanishing), we prove inequalities for the ground state expectation value of the density of spin-0 bosons. The inequalities imply that the ground state possesses "polar" or "antiferromagnetic" order when the quadratic Zeeman term q is large enough. In the low density limit, the inequalities establish the existence of a sharp transition at q=0 when q is varied.

id: 1302.6438
title: Testing Bell's Inequality using Charmonium Decays
authors: Shion Chen, Yuki Nakaguchi, Sachio Komamiya
comments: 13 pages with 4 figures and 5 tables. accepted by PTEP (Progress of Theoretical and Experimental Physics)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6438
abstract: This paper discusses the feasibility of testing Bell's inequality with the charmonium decays \eta_c -> \Lambda \Lambda, \chi_{c0} -> \Lambda\Lambda and J/\Psi -> \Lambda\Lambda. We develop a new formulation of the Bell's inequality represented with particles' momenta which can be measured definitely in experiment and seek if it violates in these decays. It is illustrated that the \eta_c channel and the \chi_{c0} channel maximally violate Bell's inequality, while the J/\Psi channel gives no inconsistency with it. Simulations dealing with experimental aspects are also implemented. The expected statistical fluctuations and achievable significance are estimated as a function of sample size.

id: 1302.6439
title: Spin noise of exciton-polaritons in microcavities
authors: M.M. Glazov, M.A. Semina, E.Ya. Sherman, A.V. Kavokin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6439
abstract: We develop a theory of spin fluctuations of exciton-polaritons in a semiconductor microcavity under the non-resonant unpolarized pumping. It is shown that the corresponding spin noise is sensitive to the scattering rates in the system, occupation of the ground state, statistics of polaritons, and interactions. The spin noise spectrum drastically narrows in the polariton lasing regime due to formation of a polariton condensate, while its shape can become non-Lorentzian owing to interaction-induced spin decoherence.

id: 1302.6444
title: Entanglement creation in cold molecular gases using strong laser pulses
authors: Felipe Herrera, Sabre Kais, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 29 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6444
abstract: While many-particle entanglement can be found in natural solids and strongly interacting atomic and molecular gases, generating highly entangled states between weakly interacting particles in a controlled and scalable way presents a significant challenge. We describe here a one-step method to generate entanglement in a dilute gas of cold polar molecules. For molecules in optical traps separated by a few micrometers, we show that maximally entangled states can be created using the strong off-resonant pulses that are routinely used in molecular alignment experiments. We show that the resulting alignment-mediated entanglement can be detected by measuring laser-induced fluorescence with single-site resolution and that signatures of this molecular entanglement also appear in the microwave absorption spectra of the molecular ensemble. We analyze the robustness of these entangled molecular states with respect to intensity fluctuations of the trapping laser and discuss possible applications of the system for quantum information processing.

id: 1302.6502
title: Fast and Quasideterministic Single Ion Source from a Dipole-Blockaded Atomic Ensemble
authors: C. Ates, I. Lesanovsky, C. S. Adams, K. J. Weatherill
comments: 7 pages (including appendix), 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 213003 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6502
abstract: We present a fast and Quasideterministic protocol for the production of single ions and electrons from a cloud of laser cooled atoms. The approach is based on a two-step process where first a single Rydberg atom is photo-excited from a dipole-blockade configuration and subsequently ionized by an electric field pulse. We theoretically describe these excitation-ionization cycles via dynamical quantum maps and observe a rich behavior of the ionization dynamics as a function of laser Rabi frequency, pulse duration and particle number. Our results show that a fast sequential heralded production of single charged particles is achievable even from an unstructured and fluctuating atomic ensemble.

id: 1302.6509
title: Noise Intensity-Intensity Correlations and the Fourth Cumulant of Current Fluctuations
authors: Jean-Charles Forgues, Fatou Bintou Sane, Simon Blanchard, Lafe Spietz, Christian Lupien, Bertrand Reulet
comments: 
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 2869 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6509
abstract: We report measurements of the correlation between intensities of noise at different frequencies on a tunnel junction under ac excitation, which corresponds to two-mode intensity correlations in optics. We observe positive correlation, \emph{i.e.} photon bunching, which exist only for certain relations between the excitation frequency and the two detection frequencies, depending on the dc bias of the sample. We demonstrate that these correlations are proportional to the fourth cumulant of current fluctuations.

id: 1302.6596
title: Quantum Simulation Architecture for Lattice Bosons in Arbitrary, Tunable External Gauge Fields
authors: Eliot Kapit
comments: 9 pages (with references), 5 figures, accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6596
abstract: We describe a lattice of asymmetrical qubit pairs in one or two dimensions, with couplings arranged so that the motion of single-qubit excited states mimics the behavior of charged lattice bosons hopping in a magnetic field. We show in particular that one can choose the parameters of the many-body circuit to reach a regime where the complex hopping phase between any two elements can be tuned to any value by simply adjusting the relative phases of two applied oscillating voltage signals. We also propose a specific realization of our model using coupled three junction flux qubits, in which one can reach the strongly interacting bosonic quantum Hall limit where one will find anyonic excitations. The circuits could be used for topological quantum computation.

id: 1302.6610
title: Manipulation and coherence of ultra-cold atoms on a superconducting atom chip
authors: S. Bernon, H. Hattermann, D. Bothner, M. Knufinke, P. Weiss, F. Jessen, D. Cano, M. Kemmler, R. Kleiner, D. Koelle, J. Fort¨¢gh
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Communications 4:2380 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6610
abstract: The coherence of quantum systems is crucial to quantum information processing. While it has been demonstrated that superconducting qubits can process quantum information at microelectronics rates, it remains a challenge to preserve the coherence and therefore the quantum character of the information in these systems. An alternative is to share the tasks between different quantum platforms, e.g. cold atoms storing the quantum information processed by superconducting circuits. In our experiment, we characterize the coherence of superposition states of 87Rb atoms magnetically trapped on a superconducting atom-chip. We load atoms into a persistent-current trap engineered in the vicinity of an off-resonance coplanar resonator, and observe that the coherence of hyperfine ground states is preserved for several seconds. We show that large ensembles of a million of thermal atoms below 350 nK temperature and pure Bose-Einstein condensates with 3.5 x 10^5 atoms can be prepared and manipulated at the superconducting interface. This opens the path towards the rich dynamics of strong collective coupling regimes.

id: 1302.6657
title: Topologically protected mid-gap states induced by impurity in one-dimensional superlattices
authors: Li-Jun Lang, Shu Chen
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 47, 065302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6657
abstract: Based on the discovery of the nontrivial topology of one-dimensional superlattices, we show that midgap states will emerge in such systems induced by a single on-site impurity. Besides the trivial bound state located at the impurity site, these midgap states are localized at the adjacent sides of the impurity, carrying the information of the topology and behaving like the effect of the open boundary conditions in the limit of a large attractive or repulsive impurity potential. Using this feature, the impurity can be used to detect the topology of the superlattice system and to realize the adiabatic pumping between the opposite sides of the impurity in cold-atom experiments or in photonic crystals.

id: 1302.6716
title: "Quantum" linearization of Painlev¨¦ equations as a component of their $L,A$ pairs
authors: Bulat Suleimanov
comments: 10 pages
journal: Ufa Mathematical Journal 2012, V.4, No/2 p.127-136 ( translated from Ufimski Mathematicheskii Jhurnal, 2012, v.5, No.2, p.127-135 (in russian))
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6716
abstract: The procedure of the "quantum" linearization of the Hamiltonian ordinary differential equations with one degree of freedom is introduced. It is offered to be used for the classification of integrable equations of the Painleve type. By this procedure and all natural numbers $n$ we construct the solutions $\Psi(\hbar,t,x,n)$ to the non-stationary Shr\"{o}dinger equation with the Hamiltonian $H = (p^2+q^2)/2$ which tend to zero as $x\to\pm\infty$. On the curves $x=q_n (\hbar, t) $ defined by the old Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization rule the solutions satisfy the relation $i\hbar \Psi '_x\equiv p_n (\hbar, t) \Psi $, where $p_n (\hbar, t) = (q_n (\hbar, t)) '_t $ is the classical momentum corresponding to the harmonic $q_n (\hbar, t) $.

id: 1302.6759
title: Voltage tunability of single spin-states in a quantum dot
authors: Anthony J. Bennett, Matthew A. Pooley, Yameng Cao, Niklas Sk?ld, Ian Farrer, David A. Ritchie, Andrew J. Shields
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, including supplementary information
journal: A. J. Bennett et al, Nature Communications 4, 1522 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6759
abstract: Single spins in the solid-state offer a unique opportunity to store and manipulate quantum information, and to perform quantum-enhanced sensing of local fields and charges. Optical control of these systems using techniques developed in atomic physics has yet to exploit all the advantages of the solid-state. We demonstrate voltage tunability of the spin energy levels in a single quantum dot by modifying how spins sense magnetic field. We find the in-plane g-factor varies discontinuously for electrons, as more holes are loaded onto the dot. In contrast, the in-plane hole g-factor varies continuously. The device can change the sign of the in-plane g-factor of a single hole, at which point an avoided crossing is observed in the two spin eigenstates. This is exactly what is required for universal control of a single spin with a single electrical gate.

id: 1302.6861
title: The effect of quantum fluctuations on the coloring of random graphs
authors: Victor Bapst, Guilhem Semerjian, Francesco Zamponi
comments: 28 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042322 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6861
abstract: We present a study of the coloring problem (antiferromagnetic Potts model) of random regular graphs, submitted to quantum fluctuations induced by a transverse field, using the quantum cavity method and quantum Monte-Carlo simulations. We determine the order of the quantum phase transition encountered at low temperature as a function of the transverse field and discuss the structure of the quantum spin glass phase. In particular, we conclude that the quantum adiabatic algorithm would fail to solve efficiently typical instances of these problems because of avoided level crossings within the quantum spin glass phase, caused by a competition between energetic and entropic effects.

id: 1302.6879
title: On singular Bosonic linear channels
authors: M.E. Shirokov
comments: 9 pages, any comments and references are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6879
abstract: Properties of Bosonic linear (quasi-free) channels, in particular, Bosonic Gaussian channels with two types of degeneracy are considered. The first type of degeneracy can be interpreted as existence of noise-free canonical variables (for Gaussian channels it means that $\det\alpha=0$). It is shown that this degeneracy implies existence of (infinitely many) "direct sum decompositions" of Bosonic linear channel, which clarifies reversibility properties of this channel (described in arXiv:1212.2354) and provides explicit construction of reversing channels. The second type of degeneracy consists in rank deficiency of the operator describing transformations of canonical variables. It is shown that this degeneracy implies existence of (infinitely many) decompositions of input space into direct sum of orthogonal subspaces such that the restriction of Bosonic linear channel to each of these subspaces is a discrete classical-quantum channel.

id: 1302.6899
title: Contraction and stability analysis of steady-states for open quantum systems described by Lindblad differential equations
authors: Pierre Rouchon, Alain Sarlette
comments: Submitted (10 pages, 1 figure)
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6899
abstract: For discrete-time systems, governed by Kraus maps, the work of D. Petz has characterized the set of universal contraction metrics. In the present paper, we use this characterization to derive a set of quadratic Lyapunov functions for continuous-time systems, governed by Lindblad differential equations, that have a steady-state with full rank. An extremity of this set is given by the Bures metric, for which the quadratic Lyapunov function is obtained by inverting a Sylvester equation. We illustrate the method by providing a strict Lyapunov function for a Lindblad equation designed to stabilize a quantum electrodynamic "cat" state by reservoir engineering. In fact we prove that any Lindblad equation on the Hilbert space of the (truncated) harmonic oscillator, which has a full-rank equilibrium and which has, among its decoherence channels, a channel corresponding to the photon loss operator, globally converges to that equilibrium.

id: 1302.6901
title: Ferromagnetic to antiferromagnetic transition of one-dimensional spinor Bose gases with spin-orbit coupling
authors: Xing Chen, Haiping Hu, Yuzhu Jiang, Shu Chen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 67, 166 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6901
abstract: We have analytically solved one-dimensional interacting two-component bosonic gases with spin-orbit (SO) coupling by the Bethe-ansatz method. Through a gauge transformation, the effect of SO coupling is incorporated into a spin-dependent twisted boundary condition. Our result shows that the SO coupling can influence the eigenenergy in a periodical pattern. The interplay between interaction and SO coupling may induce the energy level crossing for the ground state, which leads to a transition from the ferromagnetic to antiferromagnetic state.

id: 1302.6923
title: Study of a quantum scattering process by means of entropic measures
authors: Ricardo Lopez-Ruiz, Jaime Sanudo
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6923
abstract: In this work, a scattering process of quantum particles through a potential barrier is considered. The statistical complexity and the Fisher-Shannon information are calculated for this problem. The behaviour of these entropy-information measures as a function of the energy of the incident particles is compared with the behaviour of a physical magnitude, the reflection coefficient in the barrier. We find that these statistical magnitudes present their minimum values in the same situations in which the reflection coefficient is null. These are the situations where the total transmission through the barrier is achieved, {\it the transparency points}, a typical phenomenon due to the quantum nature of the system.

id: 1302.6944
title: Reduced Density Matrix after a Quantum Quench
authors: Maurizio Fagotti, Fabian H.L. Essler
comments: 25 pages, 20 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 245107 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6944
abstract: We consider the reduced density matrix (RDM) \rho_A(t) for a finite subsystem A after a global quantum quench in the infinite transverse-field Ising chain. It has been recently shown that the infinite time limit of \rho_A(t) is described by the RDM \rho_{GGE,A} of a generalized Gibbs ensemble. Here we present some details on how to construct this ensemble in terms of local integrals of motion, and show its equivalence to the expression in terms of mode occupation numbers widely used in the literature. We then address the question, how \rho_A(t) approaches \rho_{GGE,A} as a function of time. To that end we introduce a distance on the space of density matrices and show that it approaches zero as a universal power-law t^{-3/2} in time. As the RDM completely determines all local observables within A, this provides information on the relaxation of correlation functions of local operators. We then address the issue, of how well a truncated generalized Gibbs ensemble with a finite number of local higher conservation laws describes a given subsystem at late times. We find that taking into account only local conservation laws with a range at most comparable to the subsystem size provides a good description. However, excluding even a single one of the most local conservation laws in general completely spoils this agreement.

id: 1302.7047
title: Nonuniqueness of the C operator in PT-symmetric quantum mechanics
authors: Carl M. Bender, Mariagiovanna Gianfreda
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7047
abstract: The C operator in PT-symmetric quantum mechanics satisfies a system of three simultaneous algebraic operator equations, $C^2=1$, $[C,PT]=0$, and $[C,H]=0$. These equations are difficult to solve exactly, so perturbative methods have been used in the past to calculate C. The usual approach has been to express the Hamiltonian as $H=H_0+\epsilon H_1$, and to seek a solution for C in the form $C=e^Q P$, where $Q=Q(q,p)$ is odd in the momentum p, even in the coordinate q, and has a perturbation expansion of the form $Q=\epsilon Q_1+\epsilon^3 Q_3+\epsilon^5 Q_5+\ldots$. [In previous work it has always been assumed that the coefficients of even powers of $\epsilon$ in this expansion would be absent because their presence would violate the condition that $Q(p,q)$ is odd in p.] In an earlier paper it was argued that the C operator is not unique because the perturbation coefficient $Q_1$ is nonunique. Here, the nonuniqueness of C is demonstrated at a more fundamental level: It is shown that the perturbation expansion for Q actually has the more general form $Q=Q_0+\epsilon Q_1+\epsilon^2 Q_2+\ldots$ in which {\it all} powers and not just odd powers of $\epsilon$ appear. For the case in which $H_0$ is the harmonic-oscillator Hamiltonian, $Q_0$ is calculated exactly and in closed form and it is shown explicitly to be nonunique. The results are verified by using powerful summation procedures based on analytic continuation. It is also shown how to calculate the higher coefficients in the perturbation series for Q.

id: 1302.7121
title: A literature survey of low-rank tensor approximation techniques
authors: Lars Grasedyck, Daniel Kressner, Christine Tobler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7121
abstract: During the last years, low-rank tensor approximation has been established as a new tool in scientific computing to address large-scale linear and multilinear algebra problems, which would be intractable by classical techniques. This survey attempts to give a literature overview of current developments in this area, with an emphasis on function-related tensors.

id: 1302.7174
title: Dynamical localization of chaotic eigenstates in the mixed-type systems: spectral statistics in a billiard system after separation of regular and chaotic eigenstates
authors: Benjamin Batisti?, Marko Robnik
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures, (accepted J. Phys. A). arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1302.6187
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7174
abstract: We study the quantum mechanics of a billiard (Robnik 1983) in the regime of mixed-type classical phase space (the shape parameter \lambda=0.15) at very high-lying eigenstates, starting at about 1.000.000th eigenstate and including the consecutive 587654 eigenstates. By calculating the normalized Poincar\'e Husimi functions of the eigenstates and comparing them with the classical phase space structure, we introduce the overlap criterion which enables us to separate with great accuracy and reliability the regular and chaotic eigenstates, and the corresponding energies. The chaotic eigenstates appear all to be dynamically localized, meaning that they do not occupy unformly the entire available chaotic classical phase space component, but are localized on a proper subset. We find with unprecedented precision and statistical significance that the level spacing distribution of the regular levels obeys the Poisson statistics, and the chaotic ones obey the Brody statistics, as anticipated in a recent paper by Batisti\'c and Robnik (2010), where the entire spectrum was found to obey the BRB statistics. There are no effects of dynamical tunneling in this regime, due to the high energies, as they decay exponentially with the inverse effective Planck constant which is proportional to the square root of the energy.

id: 1302.7241
title: Optical absorption in highly-strained Ge/SiGe quantum wells: the role of ¦£-to-¦¤ scattering
authors: L. Lever, Z. Ikoni?, A. Valavanis, R. W. Kelsall, M. Myronov, D. R. Leadley, Y. Hu, N. Owens, F. Y. Gardes, G. T. Reed
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Journal of Applied Physics 112(12):123105-123105-7 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.7241
abstract: We report the observation of the quantum-confined Stark effect in Ge/SiGe multiple quantum well heterostructures grown on Si(0.22)Ge(0.78) virtual substrates. The large compressive strain in the Ge quantum well layers caused by the lattice mismatch with the virtual substrate results in a blue shift of the direct absorption edge, as well as a reduction in the \Gamma-valley scattering lifetime because of strain-induced splittings of the conduction band valleys. We investigate theoretically the \Gamma-valley carrier lifetimes by evaluating the \Gamma-to-L and \Gamma-to-\Delta{} scattering rates in strained Ge/SiGe semiconductor heterostructures. These scattering rates are used to determine the lifetime broadening of excitonic peaks and the indirect absorption in simulated absorption spectra, which are compared with measured absorption spectra for quantum well structures with systematically-varied dimensions. We find that \Gamma-to-\Delta{} scattering is significant in compressively strained Ge quantum wells and that the \Gamma-valley electron lifetime is less than 50 fs in the highly-strained structures reported here, where \Gamma-to-\Delta{} scattering accounted for approximately half of the total scattering rate.

id: 1302.6248
title: Exotic topological order in fractal spin liquids
authors: Beni Yoshida
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 125122 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.6248
abstract: We present a large class of three-dimensional spin models that possess topological order with stability against local perturbations, but are beyond description of topological quantum field theory. Conventional topological spin liquids, on a formal level, may be viewed as condensation of string-like extended objects with discrete gauge symmetries, being at fixed points with continuous scale symmetries. In contrast, ground states of fractal spin liquids are condensation of highly-fluctuating fractal objects with certain algebraic symmetries, corresponding to limit cycles under real-space renormalization group transformations which naturally arise from discrete scale symmetries of underlying fractal geometries. A particular class of three-dimensional models proposed in this paper may potentially saturate quantum information storage capacity for local spin systems.

id: 1302.0781
title: Floquet topological quantum phase transitions in the transverse Wen-plaquette model
authors: V. M. Bastidas, C. Emary, G. Schaller, A. G¨®mez-Le¨®n, G. Platero, T. Brandes
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. This new version contains corrected typos, and new references. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0781
abstract: Our aim in this work is to study the nonequilibrium behavior of the topological quantum phase transition in the transverse Wen-plaquette model. We show that under the effect of a nonadiabatic driving the system exhibits a new topological phase and a rich phase diagram. We define generalized topological order parameters by considering cycle-averaged expectation values of string operators in a Floquet state

id: 1302.3040
title: Measuring and engineering entropy and spin squeezing in weakly linked Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: F. Cattani, C. Gross, M.K. Oberthaler, J. Ruostekoski
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 063035 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3040
abstract: We propose a method to infer the single-particle entropy of bosonic atoms in an optical lattice and to study the local evolution of entropy, spin squeezing, and entropic inequalities for entanglement detection in such systems. This method is based on experimentally feasible measurements of non-nearest-neighbour coherences. We study a specific example of dynamically controlling atom tunneling between selected sites and show that this could potentially also improve the metrologically relevant spin squeezing.

id: 1302.5265
title: Loop quantization of the Schwarzschild black hole
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Jorge Pullin
comments: 4 pages, Revtex, version to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 211301 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5265
abstract: We quantize spherically symmetric vacuum gravity without gauge fixing the diffeomorphism constraint. Through a rescaling, we make the algebra of Hamiltonian constraints Abelian and therefore the constraint algebra is a true Lie algebra. This allows the completion of the Dirac quantization procedure using loop quantum gravity techniques. We can construct explicitly the exact solutions of the physical Hilbert space annihilated by all constraints. New observables living in the bulk appear at the quantum level (analogous to spin in quantum mechanics) that are not present at the classical level and are associated with the discrete nature of the spin network states of loop quantum gravity. The resulting quantum space-times resolve the singularity present in the classical theory inside black holes.

id: 1302.2610
title: De Donder-Weyl Hamiltonian formulation and precanonical quantization of vielbein gravity
authors: I.V. Kanatchikov
comments: 14 pages. v2 corrects small typos in (35) and the equation preceding (12)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 442 012041 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.2610
abstract: The De Donder-Weyl (DW) covariant Hamiltonian formulation of Palatini first-order Lagrangian of vielbein (tetrad) gravity and its precanonical quantization are presented. No splitting into the space and time is required in this formulation. Our recent generalization of Dirac brackets is used to treat the second class primary constraints appearing in the DW Hamiltonian formulation and to find the fundamental brackets. Quantization of the latter yields the representation of vielbeins as differential operators with respect to the spin connection coefficients, and the Dirac-like precanonical Schr\"odinger equation on the space of spin connection coefficients and space-time variables. The transition amplitudes on this space describe the quantum geometry of space-time. We also discuss the Hilbert space of the theory, the invariant measure on the spin connection coefficients, and point to the possible quantum singularity avoidance built in in the natural choice of the boundary conditions of the wave functions on the space of spin connection coefficients.

id: 1302.3412
title: Secrecy capacities of compound quantum wiretap channels and applications
authors: Holger Boche, Minglai Cai, Ning Cai, Christian Deppe
comments: We revised and improved our paper arXiv:1208.1151. We added a new result for capacity and a new section for applications. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1202.0773. Published in the 1 May 2014 issue of Physical Review A, Vol.89, No.5
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.3412
abstract: We determine the secrecy capacity of the compound channel with quantum wiretapper and channel state information at the transmitter. Moreover, we derive a lower bound on the secrecy capacity of this channel without channel state information and determine the secrecy capacity of the compound classical-quantum wiretap channel with channel state information at the transmitter. We use this result to derive a new proof for a lower bound on the entanglement generating capacity of compound quantum channel. We also derive a new proof for the entanglement generating capacity of compound quantum channel with channel state information at the encoder.

id: 1302.5843
title: Ising formulations of many NP problems
authors: Andrew Lucas
comments: 27 pages; v2: substantial revision to intro/conclusion, many more references; v3: substantial revision and extension, to-be-published version
journal: Frontiers in Physics 2, 5 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5843
abstract: We provide Ising formulations for many NP-complete and NP-hard problems, including all of Karp's 21 NP-complete problems. This collects and extends mappings to the Ising model from partitioning, covering and satisfiability. In each case, the required number of spins is at most cubic in the size of the problem. This work may be useful in designing adiabatic quantum optimization algorithms.

