id: 1303.0055
title: Operator Quantum Zeno Effect: Protecting Quantum Information with Noisy Two-Qubit Interactions
authors: Shu-Chao Wang, Ying Li, Xiang-Bin Wang, Leong Chuan Kwek
comments: accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 100505 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0055
abstract: The time evolution of some quantum states can be slowed down or even stopped under frequent measurements. This is the usual quantum Zeno effect. Here, we report an operator quantum Zeno effect, in which the evolution of some physical observables is slowed down through measurements even though the quantum state changes randomly with time. Based on the operator quantum Zeno effect, we show how we can protect quantum information from decoherence with two-qubit measurements, realizable with noisy two-qubit interactions.

id: 1303.0056
title: Deterministic photonic spatial-polarization hyper-controlled-not gate assisted by quantum dot inside one-side optical microcavity
authors: Bao-Cang Ren, Hai-Rui Wei, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Laser Physics Letters 10, 095202 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0056
abstract: Up to now, all the works about constructing quantum logic gates, an essential part in quantum computing, are focused on operating on one degree of freedom (DOF) of quantum systems. Here, we investigate the possibility to achieve a scalable photonic quantum computing based on two DOFs of quantum systems and construct a deterministic hyper-controlled-not (hyper-CNOT) gate operating on both spatial-mode and polarization DOFs of a photon pair simultaneously, by using the giant optical Faraday rotation induced by a single-electron spin in a quantum dot inside a one-side optical microcavity as a result of cavity quantum electrodynamics. With this hyper-CNOT gate and linear optical elements, two-photon four-qubit cluster entangled states can be prepared and analyzed, which gives an application to manipulate more information with less resources. We analyze the experimental feasibility of this hyper-CNOT gate and show that it can be implemented with current technology.

id: 1303.0062
title: Simulating Quantum Magnetism with Correlated Non-Neutral Ion Plasmas
authors: John J. Bollinger, Joseph W. Britton, Brian C. Sawyer
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, to be published in the Proceedings of 10th International Workshop on Non-Neutral Plasmas
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0062
abstract: By employing forces that depend on the internal electronic state (or spin) of an atomic ion, the Coulomb potential energy of a strongly coupled array of ions can be modified in a spin-dependent way to mimic effective quantum spin Hamiltonians. Both ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic interactions can be implemented. We use simple models to explain how the effective spin interactions are engineered with trapped-ion crystals. We summarize the type of effective spin interactions that can be readily generated, and discuss an experimental implementation using single-plane ion crystals in a Penning trap.

id: 1303.0077
title: Entangled state engineering of vibrational modes in a multi-membrane optomechanical system
authors: Xun-Wei Xu, Yan-Jun Zhao, Yu-xi Liu
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022325 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0077
abstract: We propose a method to generate entangled states of the vibrational modes of N membranes which are coupled to a cavity mode via the radiation pressure. Using sideband excitations, we show that arbitrary entangled states of vibrational modes of different membranes can be produced in principle by sequentially applying a series of classical pulses with desired frequencies, phases and durations. As examples, we show how to synthesize several typical entangled states, for example, Bell states, NOON states, GHZ states and W states. The environmental effect, information leakage, and experimental feasibility are briefly discussed. Our proposal can also be applied to other experimental setups of optomechanical systems, in which many mechanical resonators are coupled to a common sing-mode cavity field via the radiation pressure.

id: 1303.0078
title: What the complex joint probabilities observed in weak measurements can tell us about quantum physics
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: This short note (2 pages) is a contribution to the proceedings of QCMC 2012 held in Vienna, Austria, July 30th to August 3rd 2012. It is intended as a short motivational discussion of the significance that recent results on complex probabilities might have for our general understanding of the laws of physics
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1633, 22-24 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0078
abstract: Quantum mechanics does not permit joint measurements of non-commuting observables. However, it is possible to measure the weak value of a projection operator, followed by the precise measurement of a different property. The results can be interpreted as complex joint probabilities of the two non-commuting measurement outcomes. Significantly, it is possible to predict the outcome of completely different measurements by combining the joint probabilities of the initial state with complex conditional probabilities relating the new measurement to the possible combinations of measurement outcomes used in the characterization of the quantum state. We can therefore conclude that the complex conditional probabilities observed in weak measurements describe fundamental state-independent relations between non-commuting properties that represent the most fundamental form of universal laws in quantum physics.

id: 1303.0120
title: Coherent control via interplay between driving field and two-body interaction in a double well
authors: Juan Liu, Wenhua Hai, Zheng Zhou
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0120
abstract: We investigate interplay between external field and interatomic interaction and its applications to coherent control of quantum tunneling for two repulsive bosons confined in a high-frequency driven double well. A full solution of the system is generated analytically as a coherent non-Floquet state by using the Floquet states as a set of complete bases. It is demonstrated that the photon resonance of interaction leads to translation of the Floquet level-crossing points, and the non-resonant interaction causes avoided crossing of partial levels. In the non-Floquet states, the bosons beyond the crossing points slowly vary their populations, and the resonant (non-resonant) interactions enhance (decrease) the tunneling rate of the paired particles. Three different kinds of the coherent destructions of tunneling (CDT) at the crossing, avoided-crossing and uncrossing points, and the corresponding stationary-like states, are illustrated. The analytical results are numerically confirmed and perfect agreements are found. Based on the results, an useful scheme of quantum tunneling switch between stationary-like states is presented.

id: 1303.0127
title: On measurements of the canonical phase observable
authors: Juha-Pekka Pellonp??, Jussi Schultz
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012121 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0127
abstract: Measurements of single-mode phase observables are studied in the spirit of the quantum theory of measurement. We determine the minimal measurement models of phase observables and consider methods of measuring such observables by using a double homodyne detector. We show that, in principle, the canonical phase distribution of the signal state can be measured via double homodyne detection by first processing the state using a two-mode unitary channel.

id: 1303.0128
title: True Multipartite Entanglement Hardy Test
authors: Ramij Rahaman, Marcin Wie?niak, Marek ?ukowski
comments: 5 pages,ver. 3 with the protocol removed due to a security loophole
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062338 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0128
abstract: Quantum mechanics allows systems to be entangled with each other, which results in stronger than classical correlations. Many methods of identifying entanglement have been proposed over years, most of which are based on violating some statistical inequalities. In this work we extend the idea due to Hardy, in which entanglement is not identified with use of statistical inequalities, but by simultaneous satisfaction of certain conditions. We show that the new variant of the Hardy paradox relying on marginal probabilities can be resolved only by true multipartite entangled states. Also, the state resolving this paradox for given local measurements is pure and unique in case of qubit collections.

id: 1303.0132
title: Spectral singularities in PT-symmetric Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: W. D. Heiss, H. Cartarius, G. Wunner, J. Main
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures, modifications in Figs. 1 and 2, additions in the text, to be published in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 275307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0132
abstract: We consider the model of a PT-symmetric Bose-Einstein condensate in a delta-functions double-well potential. We demonstrate that analytic continuation of the primarily non-analytic term |psi|^2 psi - occurring in the underlying Gross-Pitaevskii equation - yields new branch points where three levels coalesce. We show numerically that the new branch points exhibit the behaviour of exceptional points of second and third order. A matrix model which confirms the numerical findings in analytic terms is given.

id: 1303.0133
title: Introduction to Physical Implementations of Quantum Information Processing
authors: Stephan D¨¹rr
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0133
abstract: This was a contribution to the lecture notes on the 44th IFF Spring School held at Forschungszentrum J\"ulich in 2013 on "Quantum Information Processing". The school as a whole had a strong focus on solid state systems. It was the purpose of this contribution to give a brief pedagogical introduction into quantum information processing with atoms and ions.

id: 1303.0142
title: Quantum-Secure Authentication with a Classical Key
authors: Sebastianus A. Goorden, Marcel Horstmann, Allard P. Mosk, Boris ?kori?, Pepijn W.H. Pinkse
comments: Revised version of 7 pages including extended appendix with in total 4 figures
journal: Optica 1 (6), 421-424 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0142
abstract: Authentication provides the trust people need to engage in transactions. The advent of physical keys that are impossible to copy promises to revolutionize this field. Up to now, such keys have been verified by classical challenge-response protocols. Such protocols are in general susceptible to emulation attacks. Here we demonstrate Quantum-Secure Authentication ("QSA") of an unclonable classical physical key in a way that is inherently secure by virtue of quantum-physical principles. Our quantum-secure authentication operates in the limit of a large number of channels, represented by the more than thousand degrees of freedom of an optical wavefront shaped with a spatial light modulator. This allows us to reach quantum security with weak coherent pulses of light containing dozens of photons, too few for an adversary to determine their complex spatial shapes, thereby rigorously preventing emulation.

id: 1303.0155
title: N-person quantum Russian roulette
authors: Piotr Frackiewicz, Alexandre G M Schmidt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0155
abstract: We generalize the concept of quantum Russian roulette introduced in [A.G.M. Schmidt, L. da Silva, Physica A 392 (2013) 400-410]. Our model coincides with the previous one in the case of the game with two players and gives the suitable quantum description for any finite number of players.

id: 1303.0173
title: Entanglement detection by Bragg scattering
authors: Chiara Macchiavello, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, final version (refs added + minor changes)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 044301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0173
abstract: We show how to measure the structural witnesses proposed in [P. Krammer et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 100502 (2009)] for detecting entanglement in a spin chain using photon scattering. The procedure, moreover, allows one to measure the two-point correlation function of the spin array. This proposal could be performed in existing experimental platforms realizing ion chains in Paul traps or atomic arrays in optical lattices.

id: 1303.0206
title: Ultrafast and selective coherent population transfer in four-level atoms by a single frequency chirped few-cycle pulse
authors: Parvendra Kumar, Amarendra K. Sarma
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0206
abstract: We report and propose a simple scheme to achieve the ultrafast and selective population transfer in four-level atoms by utilizing a single frequency chirped few-cycle pulse. It is demonstrated that the almost complete population may be transferred to the preselected state of atoms just by manipulating the so called chirp offset parameter. The robustness of the scheme against the variation of laser pulse parameters is also investigated. The proposed scheme may also be useful for the selective population transfer in molecules.

id: 1303.0207
title: Conditions for two-photon interference with coherent pulses
authors: Yong-Su Kim, Oliver Slattery, Paulina S. Kuo, Xiao Tang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063843 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0207
abstract: We study the conditions for two-photon classical interference with coherent pulses. We find that the temporal overlap between optical pulses is not required for interference However, coherence within the same inputs is found to be essential for the interference.

id: 1303.0271
title: An entangling quantum-logic gate operated with an ultrabright single photon-source
authors: O. Gazzano, M. P. Almeida, A. K. Nowak, S. L. Portalupi, A. Lema?tre, I. Sagnes, A. G. White., P. Senellart
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0271
abstract: We demonstrate unambiguous entangling operation of a photonic quantum-logic gate driven by an ultrabright solid-state single-photon source. Indistinguishable single photons emitted by a single semiconductor quantum dot in a micropillar optical cavity are used as target and control qubits. For a source brightness of 0.56 collected photons-per-pulse, the measured truth table has an overlap with the ideal case of 68.4%, increasing to 73.0% for a source brightness of 0.17 photons- per-pulse. The gate is entangling: at a source brightness of 0.48, the Bell-state fidelity is above the entangling threshold of 50%, and reaches 71.0% for a source brightness of 0.15.

id: 1303.0273
title: Quantum error correction and detection: quantitative analysis of a coherent-state amplitude damping code
authors: Ricardo Wickert, Peter van Loock
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052309 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0273
abstract: We re-examine a non-Gaussian quantum error correction code designed to protect optical coherent-state qubits against errors due to an amplitude damping channel. We improve on a previous result [Phys. Rev. A 81, 062344 (2010)] by providing a tighter upper bound on the performance attained when considering realistic assumptions which constrain the operation of the gates employed in the scheme. The quantitative characterization is performed through measures of fidelity and concurrence, the latter obtained by employing the code as an entanglement distillation protocol. We find that, when running the code in fully-deterministic error correction mode, direct transmission can only be beaten for certain combinations of channel and input state parameters, whereas in error detection mode, the usage of higher repetition encodings remains beneficial throughout.

id: 1303.0279
title: Assessing quantum error correction: fidelity and entanglement measures with application to photonic codes
authors: Ricardo Wickert, Peter van Loock
comments: 6+4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0279
abstract: By interpreting the well-known, qualitative criteria for the existence of quantum error correction (QEC) codes by Knill and Laflamme from a quantitative perspective, we propose a figure of merit for assessing a QEC scheme based on the average fidelity between codewords. This enables us to quantify the performance of a protocol as a whole, including errors beyond the correctable set. Various examples are calculated for photonic qubit codes dealing with the experimentally relevant case of photon loss, demonstrating the advantages of the new measure. In the context of continuous-variable QEC, our codeword-overlap measure can be used to reproduce, in a different way with no need for calculating entanglement measures, a previous result concerning the impossibility of improving transmission of Gaussian states through Gaussian channels via Gaussian operations alone.

id: 1303.0299
title: Limit of spin squeezing in trapped Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Alice Sinatra, Yvan Castin, Emilia Witkowska
comments: 6 pages
journal: Europhysics Letters 102 (2013) 40001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0299
abstract: The evolution of an interacting two-component Bose-Einstein condensate from an initial phase state leads to a spin squeezed state that may be used in atomic clocks to increase the signal-to-noise ratio, opening the way to quantum metrology. The efficiency of spin squeezing is limited by the finite temperature of the gas, as was shown theoretically in a spatially homogeneous system. Here we determine the limit of spin squeezing in the realistic trapped case, with classical field simulations, and with a completely analytical treatment that includes the quantum case.

id: 1303.0360
title: The role of the non-Gaussianity plays in the enhancement of the fidelity in continuous variable quantum teleportation
authors: Ke-Xia Jiang
comments: updated to published version, some references are added
journal: Opt. Commun. 300 (2013) 286-292
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0360
abstract: We investigated the role of non-Gaussianity (nG) plays in the enhancement of the fidelity in continuous-variable quantum teleportation of ideal Braunstein and Kimble (BK) protocol for coherent states, theoretically. The de-Gaussification procedure is realized through subtracting photons on the two-mode squeezed vacuum state (TMSVs). We find that the high fidelity always refers to a symmetrical arrangement of photon subtractions on the different modes of the TMSVs. The non-Gaussian resources demonstrate commendable superiorities compare with the Gaussian resources only for symmetrical arrangements of photon subtractions, however, the asymmetrical arrangements do not. When the total number of photon subtractions be a constant, we find that the optimal nG procedure prefers the most asymmetrical arrangement of subtractions. This characteristic is not consistent with the result that the highest fidelity refers to a symmetrical case. Under the same squeezing parameter, a higher nG might not always lead to a higher fidelity.

id: 1303.0366
title: Dominance of quantum over classical correlations: entropic and geometric approach
authors: Zbigniew Walczak, Iwona Wintrowicz, Katarzyna Zakrzewska
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. This is an entirely revised version of the previous article. All comments are welcome and appreciated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0366
abstract: Recently, it has been shown that there exist quantum states for which quantum correlations dominate over classical correlations. Inspired by this observation, we investigate the problem of quantum correlations dominance for two-qubit Bell diagonal states in the Ollivier--Zurek paradigm, using both entropic and geometric approach to quantification of classical and quantum correlations. In particular, we estimate numerically the amount of two-qubit Bell diagonal states for which quantum correlations dominate over classical correlations, and vice versa. Moreover, we show that in general these two approaches to quantification of correlations provide ambiguous results.

id: 1303.0368
title: Classical capacity of the noisy bosonic channel and the bosonic minimum output entropy conjecture
authors: Antonio Mecozzi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0368
abstract: We consider a line with noise in the simplest case. Loss does not add noise. Amplification via phase insensitive amplifiers do add noise. A lower bound of this capacity is the quantum analog to the Shannon capacity of a linear channel with additive white Gaussian noise, namely the difference of the Von Neumann entropy of the signal plus noise at the output of the line and the entropy of the noise alone. We show that this expression is indeed the capacity for the case of an amplifier with infinitesimal gain $G = 1+\epsilon$, and for a cascade of an amplifier with arbitrary gain and a large loss, such that the overall gain of the cascade is infinitesimal.

id: 1303.0371
title: Nonlinear Quantum Search Using the Gross-Pitaevskii Equation
authors: David A. Meyer, Thomas G. Wong
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 063014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0371
abstract: We solve the unstructured search problem in constant time by computing with a physically motivated nonlinearity of the Gross-Pitaevskii type. This speedup comes, however, at the novel expense of increasing the time-measurement precision. Jointly optimizing these resource requirements results in an overall scaling of $N^{1/4}$. This is a significant, but not unreasonable, improvement over the $N^{1/2}$ scaling of Grover's algorithm. Since the Gross-Pitaevskii equation approximates the multi-particle (linear) Schr\"odinger equation, for which Grover's algorithm is optimal, our result leads to a quantum information-theoretic lower bound on the number of particles needed for this approximation to hold, asymptotically.

id: 1303.0421
title: Nuclear-spin-dependent coherent population trapping of single nitrogen vacancy centers in diamond
authors: D. Andrew Golter, Khodadad N. Dinyari, Hailin Wang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 035801 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0421
abstract: Coherent population trapping (CPT) provides a highly sensitive means for probing the energy level structure of an atomic system. For a nitrogen vacancy center in diamond, the CPT offers an alternative to the standard optically-detected magnetic resonance method for measuring the hyperfine structure of the electronic ground states. We show that the nuclear spin dependent CPT measures directly the hyperfine splitting of these states due to the 14N nuclear spin. The CPT spectral response obtained in the presence of a strong microwave field, resonant or nearly resonant with a ground state spin transition, maps out the dynamic Stark splitting induced by the coherent spin excitation.

id: 1303.0436
title: Adaptive quantum state tomography improves accuracy quadratically
authors: D.H. Mahler, Lee A. Rozema, Ardavan Darabi, Chris Ferrie, Robin Blume-Kohout, A.M. Steinberg
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 183601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0436
abstract: We introduce a simple protocol for adaptive quantum state tomography, which reduces the worst-case infidelity between the estimate and the true state from $O(N^{-1/2})$ to $O(N^{-1})$. It uses a single adaptation step and just one extra measurement setting. In a linear optical qubit experiment, we demonstrate a full order of magnitude reduction in infidelity (from $0.1%$ to $0.01%$) for a modest number of samples ($N=3\times10^4$).

id: 1303.0493
title: Perfect Echo HMQC: Sensitivity and Resolution Enhancement by Broadband Homonuclear Decoupling
authors: Bikash Baishya, C. L Khetrapala, Krishna Kishor Dey
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0493
abstract: Homonuclear 1H-1H J-modulation leads to J-multiplets in F1 dimension of 2D 1H-13C HMQC spectra. This hampers unambiguous signal assignment for overcrowded 13C spectra. Broadband homonuclear decoupling has been achieved in the indirect t1 evolution period by incorporating blocks of perfect echo. This method enhances resolution and sensitivity of 2D 1H-13C HMQC spectra. The results on Cyclosporine demonstrate that the method is very efficient for -13CH2 groups, though partial sensitivity and resolution enhancements have also been observed for -13CH and -13CH3 groups. Interpretation of the result based on product operator formalism is also given.

id: 1303.0495
title: Detecting non-Abelian geometric phase in circuit QED
authors: Man-Lv Peng, Jian Zhou, Zheng-Yuan Xue
comments: 
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 12, 2739 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0495
abstract: We propose a scheme for detecting noncommutative feature of the non-Abelian geometric phase in circuit QED, which involves three transmon qubits capacitively coupled to an one-dimensional transmission line resonator. By controlling the external magnetic flux of the transmon qubits, we can obtain an effective tripod interaction of our circuit QED setup. The noncommutative feature of the non-Abelian geometric phase is manifested that for an initial state undergo two specific loops in different order will result in different final states. Our numerical calculations show that this difference can be unambiguously detected in the proposed system.

id: 1303.0600
title: Optical Control of a Quantum Rotor
authors: Lukas F. Buchmann, H. Jing, C. Raman, P. Meystre
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 031601(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0600
abstract: The possibility to coherently control a quantum rotor is investigated theoretically. The rotor is realized by an antiferromagnetic spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate, trapped in the optical field of a Fabry-Perot resonator. By tuning the pumping field of the resonator, coherent control over the rotor is achieved. The technique is illustrated by the numerical simulation of a protocol that transforms the rotor's ground state into a squeezed state. The detection of the squeezed state via measurement of intensity-correlations of the cavity field is proposed.

id: 1303.0606
title: Quantum Information Transmission over a Partially Degradable Channel
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, Journal-ref: IEEE Access
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0606
abstract: We investigate a quantum coding for quantum communication over a PD (partially degradable) degradable quantum channel. For a PD channel, the degraded environment state can be expressed from the channel output state up to a degrading map. PD channels can be restricted to the set of optical channels which allows for the parties to exploit the benefits in experimental quantum communications. We show that for a PD channel, the partial degradability property leads to higher quantum data rates in comparison to those of a degradable channel. The PD property is particular convenient for quantum communications and allows one to implement the experimental quantum protocols with higher performance. We define a coding scheme for PD-channels and give the achievable rates of quantum communication.

id: 1303.0614
title: Bounding the speed of `spooky action at a distance'
authors: Juan Yin, Yuan Cao, Hai-Lin Yong, Ji-Gang Ren, Hao Liang, Sheng-Kai Liao, Fei Zhou, Chang Liu, Yu-Ping Wu, Ge-Sheng Pan, Qiang Zhang, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 260407 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0614
abstract: In the well-known EPR paper, Einstein et al. called the nonlocal correlation in quantum entanglement as `spooky action at a distance'. If the spooky action does exist, what is its speed? All previous experiments along this direction have locality loopholes and thus can be explained without having to invoke any `spooky action' at all. Here, we strictly closed the locality loopholes by observing a 12-hour continuous violation of Bell inequality and concluded that the lower bound speed of `spooky action' was four orders of magnitude of the speed of light if the Earth's speed in any inertial reference frame was less than 10^(-3) times of the speed of light.

id: 1303.0637
title: Ramsey interferometry using the Zeeman sublevels in a spin-2 Bose gas
authors: M. Sadgrove, Y. Eto, S. Sekine, H. Suzuki, T. Hirano
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0637
abstract: We perform atom interferometry using the Zeeman sublevels of a spin-2 Bose-Einstein condensate of $^{87}$Rb. The observed fringes are strongly peaked, and fringe repetition rates higher than the fundamental Ramsey frequency are found in agreement with a simple theory based on spin rotations. With a suitable choice of initial states, the interferometer could function as a useful tool for magnetometry and studies of spinor dynamics in general.

id: 1303.0685
title: Probing phase-space noncommutativity through quantum beating, missing information and the thermodynamic limit
authors: Alex E. Bernardini, O. Bertolami
comments: 34 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0685
abstract: In this work we examine the effect of phase-space noncommutativity on some typically quantum properties such as quantum beating, quantum information, and decoherence. To exemplify these issues we consider the two-dimensional noncommutative quantum harmonic oscillator whose components behavior we monitor in time. This procedure allows us to determine how the noncommutative parameters are related to the missing information quantified by the linear quantum entropy and by the mutual information between the relevant Hilbert space coordinates. Particular questions concerning the thermodynamic limit of some relevant properties are also discussed in order to evidence the effects of noncommutativity. Finally, through an analogy with the Zeeman effect, we identify how some aspects of the axial symmetry of the problem suggest the possibility of decoupling the noncommutative quantum perturbations from unperturbed commutative well-known solutions.

id: 1303.0706
title: Limit on Time-Energy Uncertainty with Multipartite Entanglement
authors: Manabendra Nath Bera, R. Prabhu, Arun Kumar Pati, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0706
abstract: We establish a relation between the geometric time-energy uncertainty and multipartite entanglement. In particular, we show that the time-energy uncertainty relation is bounded below by the geometric measure of multipartite entanglement for an arbitrary quantum evolution of any multipartite system. The product of the time-averaged speed of the quantum evolution and the time interval of the evolution is bounded below by the multipartite entanglement of the target state. This relation holds for pure as well as for mixed states. We provide examples of physical systems for which the bound reaches close to saturation.

id: 1303.0708
title: Tunneling in cosine potential with periodic boundary conditions
authors: Zbigniew Ambrozinski
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0708
abstract: In this paper we discuss three methods to calculate energy splitting in cosine potential on a circle, Bloch waves, semi--classical approximation and restricted basis approach. While the Bloch wave method gives only a qualitative result, with the WKB method we are able to determine its unknown coefficients. The numerical approach is most exact and enables us to extract further corrections to previous results.

id: 1303.0808
title: Sequential decoding of a general classical-quantum channel
authors: Mark M. Wilde
comments: 12 pages; accepted for publication in the Proceedings of the Royal Society A
journal: Proceedings of the Royal Society A vol. 469, no. 2157, page 20130259 (September 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0808
abstract: Since a quantum measurement generally disturbs the state of a quantum system, one might think that it should not be possible for a sender and receiver to communicate reliably when the receiver performs a large number of sequential measurements to determine the message of the sender. We show here that this intuition is not true, by demonstrating that a sequential decoding strategy works well even in the most general "one-shot" regime, where we are given a single instance of a channel and wish to determine the maximal number of bits that can be communicated up to a small failure probability. This result follows by generalizing a non-commutative union bound to apply for a sequence of general measurements. We also demonstrate two ways in which a receiver can recover a state close to the original state after it has been decoded by a sequence of measurements that each succeed with high probability. The second of these methods will be useful in realizing an efficient decoder for fully quantum polar codes, should a method ever be found to realize an efficient decoder for classical-quantum polar codes.

id: 1303.0814
title: Probing the local density of states in three dimensions with a scanning single quantum emitter
authors: Andreas W. Schell, Philip Engel, Oliver Benson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0814
abstract: Their intrinsic properties render single quantum systems as ideal tools for quantum enhanced sensing and microscopy. As an additional benefit, their size is typically on an atomic scale which enables sensing with very high spatial resolution. Here, we report on utilizing a single nitrogen vacancy center in nanodiamond for performing three-dimensional scanning-probe fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy. By measuring changes of the single emitter's lifetime information on the local density of optical states is acquired at the nanoscale. This technique to gather information on the local density of optical states is important for the understanding of fundamental quantum optical processes as well as for the engineering of novel photonic and plasmonic devices.

id: 1303.0865
title: Performing private database queries in a real-world environment using a quantum protocol
authors: Philip Chan, Itzel Lucio-Martinez, Xiaofan Mo, Christoph Simon, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, Article number: 5233 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0865
abstract: In the well-studied cryptographic primitive 1-out-of-N oblivious transfer, a user retrieves a single element from a database of size N without the database learning which element was retrieved. While it has previously been shown that a secure implementation of 1-out-of-N oblivious transfer is impossible against arbitrarily powerful adversaries, recent research has revealed an interesting class of private query protocols based on quantum mechanics in a cheat sensitive model. Specifically, a practical protocol does not need to guarantee that database cannot learn what element was retrieved if doing so carries the risk of detection. The latter is sufficient motivation to keep a database provider honest. However, none of the previously proposed protocols could cope with noisy channels. Here we present a fault-tolerant private query protocol, in which the novel error correction procedure is integral to the security of the protocol. Furthermore, we present a proof-of-concept demonstration of the protocol over a deployed fibre.

id: 1303.0874
title: A scanning transmon qubit for strong coupling circuit quantum electrodynamics
authors: William E. Shanks, Devin L. Underwood, Andrew A. Houck
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Nat. Comm. 4, 1991 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0874
abstract: Like a quantum computer designed for a particular class of problems, a quantum simulator enables quantitative modeling of quantum systems that is computationally intractable with a classical computer. Quantum simulations of quantum many-body systems have been performed using ultracold atoms and trapped ions among other systems. Superconducting circuits have recently been investigated as an alternative system in which microwave photons confined to a lattice of coupled resonators act as the particles under study with qubits coupled to the resonators producing effective photon-photon interactions. Such a system promises insight into the nonequilibrium physics of interacting bosons but new tools are needed to understand this complex behavior. Here we demonstrate the operation of a scanning transmon qubit and propose its use as a local probe of photon number within a superconducting resonator lattice. We map the coupling strength of the qubit to a resonator on a separate chip and show that the system reaches the strong coupling regime over a wide scanning area.

id: 1303.0909
title: Can the canonical quantization be accomplished within the intrinsic geometry?
authors: D. M. Xun, Q. H. Liu
comments: 13 pages. typos corrected, title updated. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1212.6373
journal: Annals of Physics 341 (2014) 132
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0909
abstract: For particles constrained on a curved surface, how to perform quantization within Dirac's canonical quantization scheme is a long-standing problem. On one hand, Dirac stressed that the Cartesian coordinate system has fundamental importance in passing from the classical Hamiltonian to its quantum mechanical form while preserving the classical algebraic structure between positions, momenta and Hamiltonian to the extent possible. On the other, on the curved surface, we have no exact Cartesian coordinate system within intrinsic geometry. These two facts imply that the three-dimensional Euclidean space in which the curved surface is embedded must be invoked otherwise no proper canonical quantization is attainable. Since the minimum surfaces, catenoid and helicoid studied in this paper, have vanishing mean curvature, we explore whether the intrinsic geometry offers a proper framework in which the quantum theory can be established in a self-consistent way. Results show that it does for quantum motions on catenoid and it does not for that on helicoid, but neither is compatible with Schr\"odinger theory. In contrast, in three-dimensional Euclidean space, the geometric momentum and potential are then in agreement with those given by the Schr\"odinger theory.

id: 1303.0946
title: Bistability and chaos at low-level of quanta
authors: T. V. Gevorgyan, A. R. Shahinyan, Lock Yue Chew, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 10 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 022910, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0946
abstract: We study nonlinear phenomena of bistability and chaos at a level of few quanta. For this purpose we consider a single-mode dissipative oscillator with strong Kerr nonlinearity with respect to dissipation rate driven by a monochromatic force as well as by a train of Gaussian pulses. The quantum effects and decoherence in oscillatory mode are investigated on the framework of the purity of states and the Wigner functions calculated from the master equation. We demonstrate the quantum chaotic regime by means of a comparison between the contour plots of the Wigner functions and the strange attractors on the classical Poincar\'e section. Considering bistability at low-limit of quanta, we analyze what is the minimal level of excitation numbers at which the bistable regime of the system is displayed? We also discuss the formation of oscillatory chaotic regime by varying oscillatory excitation numbers at ranges of few quanta. We demonstrate quantum-interference phenomena that are assisted hysteresis-cycle behavior and quantum chaos for the oscillator driven by the train of Gaussian pulses as well as we establish the border of classical-quantum correspondence for chaotic regimes in the case of strong nonlinearities.

id: 1303.0954
title: Dirac Kirchhoff diffraction theory
authors: Ruben Van Boxem, Bart Partoens, Jo Verbeeck
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0954
abstract: Kirchhoff's scalar diffraction theory is applied throughout photon and electron optics. It is based on the stationary electromagnetic or Schr\"odinger wave equation, and is useful in describing interference phenomena for both light and matter waves. Here, Kirchhoff's diffraction theory is derived from the relativistic Dirac equation, thus reformulated to work on Dirac spinors. The parallels with the "classic" scalar theory are highlighted, and a basic interpretation of the result obtained for the Fraunhofer diffraction limit is given. The goal of this paper is to emphasize the similarity between the two equations on the most fundamental level.

id: 1303.1042
title: Entropy operator and associated Wigner function
authors: H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 
journal: Int. J. of Quantum Inf. 5, 149-156 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1042
abstract: We show how the entropy operators for two subsystems may be calculated. In the case of the atom-field interaction we obtain the associated Wigner function for the entropy operator for the quantized field.

id: 1303.1046
title: Solution for the dispersive and dissipative atom-field Hamiltonian under time dependent linear amplification processes
authors: R. Ju¨¢rez-Amaro, A. Z¨²?iga-Segundo, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 
journal: Rev. Mex. Fis. 57, 76 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1046
abstract: The dispersive interaction between a two-level atom and a quantized field is studied. We consider besides a time dependent linear amplification and dissipative processes. In order to solve the master equation for this system, we use superoperator techniques.

id: 1303.1054
title: Exact dynamics of quantum correlations of two qubits coupled to bosonic baths
authors: Chen Wang, Qing-Hu Chen
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 103020 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1054
abstract: The counter rotating-wave term (CRT) effects from the system-bath coherence on the dynamics of quantum correlation of two qubits in two independent baths and a common bath are systematically investigated. The hierarchy approach is extended to solve the relevant spin boson models with the Lorentzian spectrum, the exact dynamics for the quantum entanglement and quantum discord (QD) are evaluated, and the comparisons with previous ones under the rotating-wave approximation are performed. For the two independent baths, beyond the weak system-bath coupling, the CRT essentially changes the evolution of both entanglement and QD. With the increase of the coupling, the revival of the entanglement is suppressed dramatically and finally disappears, and the QD becomes smaller monotonically. For the common bath, the entanglement is also suppressed by the CRT, but the QD shows quite different behaviors, if initiated from the correlated Bell states. In the non-Markovian regime, the QD is almost not influenced by the CRT and generally finite in the long time evolution at any coupling, while in the Markovian regime, it is significantly enhanced with the strong coupling.

id: 1303.1082
title: Experimental entanglement distribution by separable states
authors: Christina E. Vollmer, Daniela Schulze, Tobias Eberle, Vitus H?ndchen, Jaromir Fiurasek, Roman Schnabel
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 230505 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1082
abstract: The distribution of entanglement between macroscopically separated parties represents a crucial protocol for future quantum information networks. Surprisingly, it has been theoretically shown that two distant systems can be entangled by sending a third mediating system that is not entangled with either of them. Such a possibility seems to contradict the intuition that to distribute entanglement, the transmitted system always needs to be entangled with the sender. Here, we experimentally distribute entanglement by exchanging a subsystem and successfully prove that this subsystem is not entangled with either of the two parties. Our implementation relies on the preparation of a specific three-mode Gaussian state containing thermal noise that demolishes the entanglement in two of the three bipartite splittings. After transmission of a separable mode this noise can be removed by quantum interference. Our work demonstrates an unexpected variant of entanglement distribution and improves the understanding necessary to engineer multipartite quantum information networks.

id: 1303.1086
title: Quantum metamaterial without local control
authors: A. Shvetsov, A. M. Satanin, Franco Nori, S. Savel'ev, A.M. Zagoskin
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87 (2013) 235410
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1086
abstract: A quantum metamaterial can be implemented as a quantum coherent 1D array of qubits placed in a transmission line. The properties of quantum metamaterials are determined by the local quantum state of the system. Here we show that a spatially-periodic quantum state of such a system can be realized without direct control of the constituent qubits, by their interaction with the initializing ("priming") pulses sent through the system in opposite directions. The properties of the resulting quantum photonic crystal are determined by the choice of the priming pulses. This proposal can be readily generalized to other implementations of quantum metamaterials.

id: 1303.1125
title: Two-Qubit Rational-Valued Entanglement-Boundary Probability Densities and a Fisher Information Equality Conjecture
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures, 2 tables. Further analyses included. Substantial expansion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computation (stat.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1125
abstract: We consider a pair of one-parameter (alpha) families of generalized two-qubit determinantal Hilbert-Schmidt probability distributions, p_{alpha}(|rho^{PT}|) and q_{alpha}(|rho|), where rho is a 4 x 4 density matrix, rho^{PT}, its partial transpose, with |rho^{PT}| \in [-1/16,1/256] and |rho| \in [0, 1/256]. The Dyson-index-like (random matrix) parameter alpha is 1/2 for the 9-dimensional generic two-rebit systems, 1 for the 15-dimensional generic two-qubit systems,... Numerical (moment-based probability-distribution-reconstruction) analyses suggest the conjecture that the Fisher information--a measure over alpha--is identical for the two distinct families. Further, we study the values of p_{alpha}(0), the probability densities at the separability-entanglement boundary, with evidence strongly indicating that p_2(0) =7425/34 and p_3(0)= 7696/69. Despite extensive results of such a nature, we have not yet succeeded--in contrast with the corresponding rational-valued separability probabilities (arXiv.org:1301.6617)--in generating an underlying, explanatory ("concise") formula for p_{\alpha}(0), even though the corresponding denominators of both sets of rational-valued results are closely related, having almost identical (small) prime factors. The first derivatives p_{alpha}^{'}(0) are positive for alpha = 1/2 and 1, but negative for alpha > 1.

id: 1303.1139
title: Observing the Onset of Effective Mass
authors: Rockson Chang, Shreyas Potnis, Ramon Ramos, Chao Zhuang, Matin Hallaji, Alex Hayat, Federico Duque-Gomez, J. E. Sipe, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 170404, 2 May 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1139
abstract: The response of a particle in a periodic potential to an applied force is commonly described by an effective mass which accounts for the detailed interaction between the particle and the surrounding potential. Using a Bose-Einstein condensate of 87-Rb atoms initially in the ground band of an optical lattice, we experimentally show that the initial response of a particle to an applied force is in fact characterized by the bare mass. Subsequently, the particle response undergoes rapid oscillations and only over timescales long compared to that of the interband dynamics is the effective mass observed to be an appropriate description.

id: 1303.1143
title: Quantum dynamics of an optomechanical system in the presence of Kerr-down conversion nonlinearity
authors: S.Shahidani, M. H. Naderi, M. Soltanolkotabi, Sh. Barzanjeh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1143
abstract: We study theoretically nonlinear effects arising from the presence of a Kerr-down conversion nonlinear crystal inside an optomechanical cavity. For this system we investigate the influences of the two nonlinearities, i.e., the Kerr nonlinearity and the parametric gain, on the dynamics of the oscillating mirror, the intensity and the squeezing spectra of the transmitted field, and the steady-state mirror-field entanglement. We show that in comparison with a bare optomechanical cavity, the combination of the cavity energy shift due to the Kerr nonlinearity and increase in the intracavity photon number due to the gain medium can increase the normal mode splitting in the displacement spectrum of the oscillating mirror and reduce its effective temperature. Our work demonstrates that both the Kerr nonlinearity and down conversion process increase the degree of squeezing in the transmitted field. Moreover, we find that in the system under consideration the degree of entanglement between the mechanical and optical modes decreases considerably because of the intracavity photon number reduction in the presence of the Kerr medium.

id: 1303.1204
title: Nanoscale fluorescence lifetime imaging with a single diamond NV center
authors: Ryan Beams, Dallas Smith, Timothy W. Johnson, Sang-Hyun Oh, Lukas Novotny, Nick Vamivakas
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures and supporting information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1204
abstract: Solid-state quantum emitters, such as artificially engineered quantum dots or naturally occurring defects in solids, are being investigated for applications ranging from quantum information science and optoelectronics to biomedical imaging. Recently, these same systems have also been studied from the perspective of nanoscale metrology. In this letter we study the near-field optical properties of a diamond nanocrystal hosting a single nitrogen vacancy center. We find that the nitrogen vacancy center is a sensitive probe of the surrounding electromagnetic mode structure. We exploit this sensitivity to demonstrate nanoscale fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy (FLIM) with a single nitrogen vacancy center by imaging the local density of states of an optical antenna.

id: 1303.1233
title: A quantum dynamical framework for Brownian heat engines
authors: G. S. Agarwal, S. Chaturvedi
comments: Latex, 18 pages, 2 Figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1233
abstract: We present a self contained formalism modelled after the Brownian motion of a quantum harmonic oscillator for describing the performance of microscopic Brownian heat engines like Carnot, Stirling and Otto engines. Our theory, besides reproducing the standard thermodynamics results in the steady state enables permits us to study the role dissipation plays in determining the efficiency of Brownian heat engines under actual laboratory conditions. In particular, we analyse in detail the dynamics associated with decoupling a system in equilibrium with one bath and recoupling it to another bath and obtain exact analytical results which are shown to have significant ramifications on the efficiencies of engines involving such a step. We also develop a simple yet powerful technique for computing corrections to the steady state results arising from finite operation time and use it to arrive at the thermodynamic complementarity relations for various operating conditions and also to compute the efficiencies of the three engines cited above at maximum power. Some of the methods and techniques and exactly solvable models presented here are interesting in their own right and, in our opinion, would find useful applications in other contexts as well.

id: 1303.1266
title: Long-term effect of inter-mode transitions in quantum Markovian process
authors: Sheng-Wen Li, Li-Ping Yang, C. P. Sun
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2014) 68: 45
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1266
abstract: We study the Markovian process of a multi-mode open system connecting with a non-equilibrium environment, which consists of several heat baths with different temperatures. As an illustration, we study the steady state of three linearly coupled harmonic oscillators in long time evolution, two of which contact with two independent bosonic heat baths with different temperatures respectively. We show that the inter-mode transitions mediated by the environment is responsible for the long time behaviour of the dynamics evolution, which is usually considered to take effect only in short time dynamics of the system immersed in a equilibrium heat bath with a single temperature. In non-equilibrium systems, the ignorance of the inter-mode transitions may give rise to some counter-intuitive result, thus they cannot be neglected.

id: 1303.1269
title: Does "quantum nonlocality without entanglement" have quantum origin?
authors: Masato Koashi, Koji Azuma, Shinya Nakamura, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1269
abstract: Quantum separable operations are defined as those that cannot produce entanglement from separable states, and it is known that they strictly surpass local operations and classical communication (LOCC) in a number of tasks, which is sometimes referred to as "quantum nonlocality without entanglement." Here we consider a task with such a gap regarding the trade-off between state discrimination and preservation of entanglement. We show that this task along with the gap has an analogue in a purely classical setup, indicating that the quantum properties are not essential in the existence of a nonzero gap between the separable operations and LOCC.

id: 1303.1287
title: Recoil effects of a motional scatterer on single-photon scattering in one dimension
authors: Qiong Li, D. Z. Xu, C. Y. Cai, C. P. Sun
comments: 9pages,6figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, Article number: 3144 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1287
abstract: The scattering of a single photon with sufficiently high energy can cause a recoil of a motional scatterer. We study its backaction on the photon's coherent transport in one dimension by modeling the motional scatterer as a two-level system, which is trapped in a harmonic potential. While the reflection spectrum is of a single peak in the Lamb-Dicke limit, multi-peaks due to phonon excitations can be observed in the reflection spectrum as the trap becomes looser or the mass of the two-level system becomes smaller.

id: 1303.1294
title: Nonlocal Young tests with Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlated particle pairs
authors: Clemens Gneiting, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 12 pages. Augmented discussion of experimental imperfections. Corresponds to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013610 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1294
abstract: We evaluate the nonlocal spatial interference displayed by Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entangled particle pairs after they pass through a double grating arrangement. An entanglement criterion is derived which serves to certify the underlying entanglement only from the observed spatial correlations. We discuss the robustness of the scheme along with a number of possible realizations with matter waves.

id: 1303.1313
title: Quantum metrology with a scanning probe atom interferometer
authors: Caspar F. Ockeloen, Roman Schmied, Max F. Riedel, Philipp Treutlein
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 143001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1313
abstract: We use a small atomic Bose-Einstein condensate as an interferometric scanning probe to map out a microwave field near a chip surface with a few micrometers resolution. Using entanglement between the atoms we overcome the standard quantum limit of interferometry by 4 dB and maintain enhanced performance for interrogation times up to 20 ms. This demonstrates the usefulness of quantum metrology with entangled states when the particle number is limited due to the small probe size. Extending atom interferometry to micrometer spatial resolution enables new applications in electromagnetic field sensing, surface science, and the search for fundamental short-range interactions.

id: 1303.1411
title: Efficient Decomposition of Single-Qubit Gates into $V$ Basis Circuits
authors: Alex Bocharov, Yuri Gurevich, Krysta M. Svore
comments: 13 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012313 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1411
abstract: We develop the first constructive algorithms for compiling single-qubit unitary gates into circuits over the universal $V$ basis. The $V$ basis is an alternative universal basis to the more commonly studied $\{H,T\}$ basis. We propose two classical algorithms for quantum circuit compilation: the first algorithm has expected polynomial time (in precision $\log(1/\epsilon)$) and offers a depth/precision guarantee that improves upon state-of-the-art methods for compiling into the $\{H,T\}$ basis by factors ranging from 1.86 to $\log_2(5)$. The second algorithm is analogous to direct search and yields circuits a factor of 3 to 4 times shorter than our first algorithm, and requires time exponential in $\log(1/\epsilon)$; however, we show that in practice the runtime is reasonable for an important range of target precisions.

id: 1303.1537
title: On the theory of composition in physics
authors: Lucien Hardy
comments: 23 pages. To appear in a festschrift for Samson Abramsky edited by Bob Coecke, Luke Ong, and Prakash Panangaden
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1537
abstract: We develop a theory for describing composite objects in physics. These can be static objects, such as tables, or things that happen in spacetime (such as a region of spacetime with fields on it regarded as being composed of smaller such regions joined together). We propose certain fundamental axioms which, it seems, should be satisfied in any theory of composition. A key axiom is the order independence axiom which says we can describe the composition of a composite object in any order. Then we provide a notation for describing composite objects that naturally leads to these axioms being satisfied. In any given physical context we are interested in the value of certain properties for the objects (such as whether the object is possible, what probability it has, how wide it is, and so on). We associate a generalized state with an object. This can be used to calculate the value of those properties we are interested in for for this object. We then propose a certain principle, the composition principle, which says that we can determine the generalized state of a composite object from the generalized states for the components by means of a calculation having the same structure as the description of the generalized state. The composition principle provides a link between description and prediction.

id: 1303.1538
title: Reconstructing quantum theory
authors: Lucien Hardy
comments: 27 PAGES. Contains summary of reconstruction part of arXiv:1104.2066. To appear in "Quantum Theory: Informational Foundations and Foils" edited by Guilio Chiribella and Robert Spekkens
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1538
abstract: We discuss how to reconstruct quantum theory from operational postulates. In particular, the following postulates are consistent only with for classical probability theory and quantum theory. Logical Sharpness: There is a one-to-one map between pure states and maximal effects such that we get unit probability. This maximal effect does not give probability equal to one for any other pure state. Information Locality: A maximal measurement is effected on a composite system if we perform maximal measurements on each of the components. Tomographic Locality: The state of a composite system can be determined from the statistics collected by making measurements on the components. Permutability: There exists a reversible transformation on any system effecting any given permutation of any given maximal set of distinguishable states for that system. Sturdiness: Filters are non-flattening. To single out quantum theory we need only add any requirement that is inconsistent with classical probability theory and consistent with quantum theory.

id: 1303.1589
title: Minimum requirements for feedback enhanced force sensing
authors: Glen I. Harris, David L. McAuslan, Thomas M. Stace, Andrew C. Doherty, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 5 pages + 2 pages of Supplementary Information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1589
abstract: The problem of estimating an unknown force driving a linear oscillator is revisited. When using linear measurement, feedback is often cited as a mechanism to enhance bandwidth or sensitivity. We show that as long as the oscillator dynamics are known, there exists a real-time estimation strategy that reproduces the same measurement record as any arbitrary feedback protocol. Consequently some form of nonlinearity is required to gain any advantage beyond estimation alone. This result holds true in both quantum and classical systems, with non-stationary forces and feedback, and in the general case of non-Gaussian and correlated noise. Recently, feedback enhanced incoherent force sensing has been demonstrated [Nat. Nano. \textbf{7}, 509 (2012)], with the enhancement attributed to a feedback induced modification of the mechanical susceptibility. As a proof-of-principle we experimentally reproduce this result through straightforward filtering.

id: 1303.1602
title: Transition linewidth of cross-correlations in random intensity fluctuations in EIT
authors: Lei Feng, Pengxiong Li, Mengzhen Zhang, Tun Wang, Yanhong Xiao
comments: Accepted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1602
abstract: It is known that cross-correlation between the random intensity fluctuations of two lasers forming electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT) exhibits a transition from correlation to anticorrelation. We study the linewidth behavior of this transition and have found the linewidth is below the (effective) coherence lifetime limit and is only limited by competing noises. We established a numerical model which reveals the linewidth dependence on laser linewidth and laser power. Our experiments using lasers with different linewidth showed results in qualitative agreement with the model. This result is useful for quantum optics using EIT, and may also have applications in spectroscopy and precision measurements.

id: 1303.1623
title: Unifying Geometric Entanglement and Geometric Phase in a Quantum Phase Transition
authors: Vahid Azimi Mousolou, Carlo M. Canali, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Journal reference added; minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012310 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1623
abstract: Geometric measure of entanglement and geometric phase have recently been used to analyze quantum phase transition in the XY spin chain. We unify these two approaches by showing that the geometric entanglement and the geometric phase are respectively the real and imaginary parts of a complex-valued geometric entanglement, which can be investigated in typical quantum interferometry experiments. We argue that the singular behavior of the complex-value geometric entanglement at a quantum critical point is a characteristic of any quantum phase transition, by showing that the underlying mechanism is the occurrence of level crossings associated with the underlying Hamiltonian.

id: 1303.1654
title: A Popov Stability Condition for Uncertain Linear Quantum Systems
authors: Matthew R. James, Ian R. Petersen, Valery Ugrinovskii
comments: A shortened version to appear in the proceedings of the 2013 American Control Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1654
abstract: This paper considers a Popov type approach to the problem of robust stability for a class of uncertain linear quantum systems subject to unknown perturbations in the system Hamiltonian. A general stability result is given for a general class of perturbations to the system Hamiltonian. Then, the special case of a nominal linear quantum system is considered with quadratic perturbations to the system Hamiltonian. In this case, a robust stability condition is given in terms of a frequency domain condition which is of the same form as the standard Popov stability condition.

id: 1303.1711
title: Controlled ripple texturing of suspended graphene membrane due to coupling with ultracold atoms
authors: Sofia Ribeiro, Stefan Scheel
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1711
abstract: We discuss the possibility to create hybrid quantum systems that combine ultracold atoms with graphene membranes. We investigate a setup in which a cold atom cloud is placed close to a free-standing sheet of graphene at distances on the order of a few hundred nanometers. The atoms then couple to the graphene membrane via Casimir-Polder forces. Temporal changes in the atomic state of the atomic cloud changes the Casimir-Polder interaction, thereby leading to the creation of a backaction force in the graphene sheet. This setup provides a controllable way to engineer ripples in a graphene sheet.

id: 1303.1745
title: Designing short robust NOT gates for quantum computation
authors: Jonathan A. Jones
comments: 12 pages RevTex including 7 figures; in press at Phys Rev A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1745
abstract: Composite pulses, originally developed in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR), have found widespread use in experimental quantum information processing (QIP) to reduce the effects of systematic errors. Most pulses used so far have simply been adapted from existing NMR designs, and while techniques have been developed for designing composite pulses with arbitrary precision the results have been quite complicated and have found little application. Here I describe techniques for designing short but effective composite pulses to implement robust NOT gates, bringing together existing insights from NMR and QIP, and present some novel composite pulses.

id: 1303.1760
title: Family of Finite Geometry Low-Density Parity-Check Codes for Quantum Key Expansion
authors: Kung-Chuan Hsu, Todd A. Brun
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, 3 tables, contents added in Sec. IV, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062332 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1760
abstract: We consider a quantum key expansion (QKE) protocol based on entanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting codes (EAQECCs). In these protocols, a seed of a previously shared secret key is used in the post-processing stage of a standard quantum key distribution protocol like the Bennett-Brassard 1984 protocol, in order to produce a larger secret key. This protocol was proposed by Luo and Devetak, but codes leading to good performance have not been investigated. We look into a family of EAQECCs generated by classical finite geometry (FG) low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes, for which very efficient iterative decoders exist. A critical observation is that almost all errors in the resulting secret key result from uncorrectable block errors that can be detected by an additional syndrome check and an additional sampling step. Bad blocks can then be discarded. We make some changes to the original protocol to avoid the consumption of the preshared key when the protocol fails. This allows us to greatly reduce the bit error rate of the key at the cost of a minor reduction in the key production rate, but without increasing the consumption rate of the preshared key. We present numerical simulations for the family of FG LDPC codes, and show that this improved QKE protocol has a good net key production rate even at relatively high error rates, for appropriate choices of these codes.

id: 1303.1792
title: Experimental Adaptive Bayesian Tomography
authors: Konstantin Kravtsov, Stanislav Straupe, Igor Radchenko, Neil Houlsby, Sergey Kulik
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062122 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1792
abstract: We report an experimental realization of an adaptive quantum state tomography protocol. Our method takes advantage of a Bayesian approach to statistical inference and is naturally tailored for adaptive strategies. For pure states we observe close to 1/N scaling of infidelity with overall number of registered events, while best non-adaptive protocols allow for $1/\sqrt{N}$ scaling only. Experiments are performed for polarization qubits, but the approach is readily adapted to any dimension.

id: 1303.1802
title: Mirror-field-atom interaction: Hamiltonian diagonalization
authors: D. Rodr¨ªguez-M¨¦ndez, O. Aguilar-Loreto, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 
journal: Revista Mexicana de F\'isica S 57, 62 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1802
abstract: We show that the interaction between a movable mirror with a quantized field that interacts with a two-level atom may be simplified via a transformation that involves Susskind-Glogower operators (SGO). By using this transformation it is easy to show that we can cast the Hamiltonian, after a series of small rotations, into an effective Hamiltonian that may be solved. We would like to stress that the transformation in terms of SGO already simplifies enough the Hamiltonian in the sense that, in an exact way, it "eliminates" one of the three-subsystems, namely the quantized field.

id: 1303.1864
title: Landau-Zener transitions in the presence of harmonic noise
authors: Matthias Kraft, Stephan Burkhardt, Riccardo Mannella, Sandro Wimberger
comments: 
journal: Fluct. Noise Lett. 12, 1340005 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1864
abstract: We study the influence of off-diagonal harmonic noise on transitions in a Landau-Zener model. We demonstrate that the harmonic noise can change the transition probabilities substantially and that its impact depends strongly on the characteristic frequency of the noise. In the underdamped regime of the noise process, its effect is compared with the one of a deterministic sinusoidally oscillating function. While altering the properties of the noise process allows one to engineer the transitions probabilities, driving the system with a deterministic sinusoidal function can result in larger and more controlled changes of the transition probability. This may be relevant for realistic implementations of our model with Bose-Einstein condensates in noise-driven optical lattices.

id: 1303.1903
title: Re-interpretations of an experiment on the back-action in a weak measurement
authors: Kouji Nakamura, Masataka Iinuma
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure (v1); 8 pages, 1 figure, the style is changed. minor revision of Introduction, Summary and Discussion (v2); minor revision of Summary and discussions (v3); Minor revision of introduction and summary and discussion. Typos are corrected. Accepted for publication to Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042106 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1903
abstract: Interpretations of an experiment on the back-action in a weak measurement in [M. Iinuma et al., New J. Phys. vol.13 (2011), 033041] are revisited. We show two different but essentially equivalent interpretations for this experiment along the original scenario of weak measurements proposed by Aharonov, Albert, and Vaidman. To do this, we introduce the notion of extended weak values which is associated not only with the states of the system but also the state of the measuring device. We also evaluate fluctuations in this experiment and found that an optimal measurement strength exists for a fixed polarization angle prepared as an initial state, at which fluctuations in measurement results vanish. The consistency of this evaluation with the experimental results is discussed.

id: 1303.1905
title: Quatum Thermodynamics and the coherence in Ion channels
authors: Samyadeb Bhattacharya, Sisir Roy
comments: 5 pages, 4figures. some references has been added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1905
abstract: We showed that quantum mechanical superposition can sustain in the process of ion transfer in protein membrane for a substantial period, in spite of the presence of the interactions with environmental modes of molecular vibration. The spectral temperature, as defined in quantum thermodynamical framework plays a significant role in maintaining the coherence. The ratio of decoherence time and dwell time has been calculated, which can be directly related to the degree of coherence. The results shead new light to build quantum information system of entangled ionic states in the voltage gated biological channels.

id: 1303.1925
title: High-bandwidth squeezed light at 1550 nm from a compact monolithic PPKTP cavity
authors: Stefan Ast, Moritz Mehmet, Roman Schnabel
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express Vol. 21, Issue 11, pp. 13572-13579 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1925
abstract: We report the generation of squeezed vacuum states of light at 1550 nm with a broadband quantum noise reduction of up to 4.8 dB ranging from 5 MHz to 1.2 GHz sideband frequency. We used a custom-designed 2.6 mm long biconvex periodically-poled potassium titanyl phosphate (PPKTP) crystal. It featured reflectively coated end surfaces, 2.26 GHz of linewidth and generated the squeezing via optical parametric amplification. Two homodyne detectors with different quantum efficiencies and bandwidths were used to characterize the non-classical noise suppression. We measured squeezing values of up to 4.8 dB from 5 to 100 MHz and up to 3 dB from 100 MHz to 1.2 GHz. The squeezed vacuum measurements were limited by detection loss. We propose an improved detection scheme to measure up to 10 dB squeezing over 1 GHz. Our results of GHz bandwidth squeezed light generation provide new prospects for high-speed quantum key distribution.

id: 1303.1958
title: Fractional Bloch oscillations in photonic lattices
authors: Giacomo Corrielli, Andrea Crespi, Giuseppe Della Valle, Stefano Longhi, Roberto Osellame
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 4: 1555 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1958
abstract: Bloch oscillations, the oscillatory motion of a quantum particle in a periodic potential, are one of the most fascinating effects of coherent quantum transport. Originally studied in the context of electrons in crystals, Bloch oscillations manifest the wave nature of matter and are found in a wide variety of different physical systems. Here we report on the first experimental observation of fractional Bloch oscillations, using a photonic lattice as a model system of a two-particle extended Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian. In our photonic simulator, the dynamics of two correlated particles hopping on a one-dimensional lattice is mapped into the motion of a single particle in a two-dimensional lattice with engineered defects and mimicked by light transport in a square waveguide lattice with a bent axis.

id: 1303.1966
title: Nonreversal and nonrepeating quantum walks
authors: T. J. Proctor, K. E. Barr, B. Hanson, S. Martiel, V. Pavlovic, A. Bullivant, V. M. Kendon
comments: v4: 8 pages 4 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042332 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1966
abstract: We introduce a variation of the discrete time quantum walk, the nonreversal quantum walk, which does not step back onto a position which it has just occupied. This allows us to simulate a dimer and we achieve it by introducing a new type of coin operator. The nonrepeating walk, which never moves in the same direction in consecutive time steps, arises by a permutation of this coin operator. We describe the basic properties of both walks and prove that the even-order joint moments of the nonrepeating walker are independent of the initial condition, being determined by five parameters derived from the coin instead. Numerical evidence suggests that the same is the case for the nonreversal walk. This contrasts strongly with previously studied coins, such as the Grover operator, where the initial condition can be used to control the standard deviation of the walker.

id: 1303.1973
title: Orbital instability and the loss of quantum coherence
authors: Allan Tameshtit, J.E. Sipe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1973
abstract: We compare quantum decoherence in generic regular and chaotic systems that interact with a thermal reservoir via a dipole coupling. Using a time-dependent, self-consistent approximation in the spirit of Hartree, we derive in the high temperature limit an expression for the off-diagonal elements of the system density operator that initially corresponds to a coherent superposition of two adjacent wave packets. We relate the decoherence rate to the Lyapunov exponent in the Ehrenfest regime. In this regime, the greater the instability of the system the faster the loss of coherence occurs.

id: 1303.1977
title: Generation of two-mode entangled states by quantum reservoir engineering
authors: Christian Arenz, Cecilia Cormick, David Vitali, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 224001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1977
abstract: A method for generating entangled cat states of two modes of a microwave cavity field is proposed. Entanglement results from the interaction of the field with a beam of atoms crossing the microwave resonator, giving rise to non-unitary dynamics of which the target entangled state is a fixed point. We analyse the robustness of the generated two-mode photonic "cat state" against dephasing and losses by means of numerical simulation. This proposal is an instance of quantum reservoir engineering of photonic systems.

id: 1303.1981
title: Controlling single-photon transport in waveguides with finite cross-section
authors: Jin-Feng Huang, Tao Shi, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013836 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1981
abstract: We study the transverse-size effect of a quasi-one-dimensional rectangular waveguide on the single-photon scattering on a two-level system. We calculate the transmission and reflection coefficients for single incident photons using the scattering formalism based on the Lippmann-Schwinger equation. When the transverse size of the waveguide is larger than a critical size, we find that the transverse mode will be involved in the single-photon scattering. Including the coupling to a higher traverse mode, we find that the photon in the lowest channel will be lost into the other channel, corresponding to the other transverse modes, when the input energy is larger than the maximum bound-state energy. Three kinds of resonance phenomena are predicted: single-photon resonance, photonic Feshbach resonance, and cutoff (minimum) frequency resonance. At these resonances, the input photon is completely reflected.

id: 1303.1999
title: Purification-based metric to measure the distance between quantum states and processes
authors: Tristan M. Osan, Pedro W. Lamberti
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0408063, arXiv:1107.1732 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1999
abstract: In this work we study the properties of an purification-based entropic metric for measuring the distance between both quantum states and quantum processes. This metric is defined as the square root of the entropy of the average of two purifications of mixed quantum states which maximize the overlap between the purified states. We analyze this metric and show that it satisfies many appealing properties, which suggest this metric is an interesting proposal for theoretical and experimental applications of quantum information.

id: 1303.2034
title: Entanglement of Open Quantum Systems in Noninertial Frames
authors: Salman Khan, M.K. Khan
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: Open Sys. Info. dynamic 19, 1250013 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2034
abstract: We study the effects of decoherence on the entanglement generated by Unruh effect in accelerated frames by using various combinations of an amplitude damping channel, a phase damping channel and a depolarizing channel in the form of multilocal and collective environments. Using concurrence as entanglement quantifier, we show that the occurrence of entanglement sudden death (ESD) depends on different combinations of the channels. The ESD can be avoided under a particular configuration of the channels. We show that the channels can be used to distinguish between a moving and a stationary frame.

id: 1303.2042
title: Polynomial-time T-depth Optimization of Clifford+T circuits via Matroid Partitioning
authors: Matthew Amy, Dmitri Maslov, Michele Mosca
comments: Version 2 contains substantial improvements and extensions to the previous version. We describe a new, more robust algorithm and achieve significantly improved experimental results
journal: IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems 33(10): 1476-1489, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2042
abstract: Most work in quantum circuit optimization has been performed in isolation from the results of quantum fault-tolerance. Here we present a polynomial-time algorithm for optimizing quantum circuits that takes the actual implementation of fault-tolerant logical gates into consideration. Our algorithm re-synthesizes quantum circuits composed of Clifford group and T gates, the latter being typically the most costly gate in fault-tolerant models, e.g., those based on the Steane or surface codes, with the purpose of minimizing both T-count and T-depth. A major feature of the algorithm is the ability to re-synthesize circuits with additional ancillae to reduce T-depth at effectively no cost. The tested benchmarks show up to 65.7% reduction in T-count and up to 87.6% reduction in T-depth without ancillae, or 99.7% reduction in T-depth using ancillae.

id: 1303.2045
title: Optimal dynamical decoupling in the presence of colored control noise
authors: Ido Almog, Gil Loewenthal, Jonathan Coslovsky, Yoav Sagi, Nir Davidson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2045
abstract: An optimal dynamical decoupling of a quantum system coupled to a noisy environment must take into account also the imperfections of the control pulses. We present a new formalism which describes, in a closed-form expression, the evolution of the system, including the spectral function of both the environment and control noise. We show that by measuring these spectral functions, our expression can be used to optimize the decoupling pulse sequence. We demonstrate this approach with an ensemble of optically trapped ultra-cold Rubidium atoms, and use quantum process tomography to identify the effect of the environment and control noise. Our approach is applicable and important for any realistic implementation of quantum information processing.

id: 1303.2066
title: Ancilla Driven Quantum Computation with arbitrary entangling strength
authors: Kerem Halil Shah, Daniel Kuan Li Oi
comments: 19 pages, 14 figures, 1 table, extended submission to TQC2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2066
abstract: We extend the model of Ancilla Driven Quantum Computation (ADQC) by considering gates with arbitrary entangling power. By giving up stepwise determinism, universal QC can still be achieved through a variable length sequence of single qubit gates and probabilistic "repeat-until-success" entangling operations. This opens up a new range of possible physical implementations as well as shedding light on the sets of resources sufficient for universal QC.

id: 1303.2100
title: Aberration-corrected quantum temporal imaging system
authors: Yunhui Zhu, Jungsang. Kim, Daniel J. Gauthier
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043808 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2100
abstract: We describe the design of a temporal imaging system that simultaneously reshapes the temporal profile and converts the frequency of a photonic wavepacket, while preserving its quantum state. A field lens, which imparts a temporal quadratic phase modulation, is used to correct for the residual phase caused by field curvature in the image, thus enabling temporal imaging for phase-sensitive quantum applications. We show how this system can be used for temporal imaging of time-bin entangled photonic wavepackets and compare the field lens correction technique to systems based on a temporal telescope and far-field imaging. The field-lens approach removes the residual phase using four dispersive elements. The group delay dispersion (GDD) $D$ is constrained by the available bandwidth $\Delta\nu$ by $D>t/\Delta\nu$, where $t$ is the temporal width of the waveform associated with the dispersion $D$. This is compared to the much larger dispersion $D\gg \pi t^2/8$ required to satisfy the Fraunhofer condition in the far field approach.

id: 1303.2137
title: On the Aharonov-Bohm Effect and Why Heisenberg Captures Nonlocality Better Than Schr?dinger
authors: Yakir Aharonov
comments: Contribution to the Festschrift for Akira Tonomura
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2137
abstract: I discuss in detail the history of the Aharonov-Bohm effect in Bristol and my encounters with Akira Tonomura later on. I then propose an idea that developed following the publication of the Aharonov-Bohm effect, namely the importance of modulo momentum and Heisenberg representation in dealing with non-local quantum phenomena.

id: 1303.2141
title: Non-equilibrium Approach to Thermodynamics using Jarzynski Equality and Diagonal Entropy
authors: Van A. Ngo, Stephan Haas
comments: 6 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2141
abstract: We combine the formalisms of diagonal entropy and Jarzynski Equality to study the thermodynamic properties of closed quantum systems. Applying this approach to a quantum harmonic oscillator, the diagonal entropy offers a notion of temperature for closed systems away from equilibrium, and allows computing free-energy profiles. We also apply this approach to a hard-core boson lattice model, and discuss measures how to estimate temperature, entropy and measure work distribution functions. This technique offers a path to investigate the non-equilibrium quantum dynamics by means of performing work in a series of quenches.

id: 1303.2213
title: Ab initio derivation of Hubbard models for cold atoms in optical lattices
authors: R. Walters, G. Cotugno, T. H. Johnson, S. R. Clark, D. Jaksch
comments: 13 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043613 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2213
abstract: We derive ab initio local Hubbard models for several optical lattice potentials of current interest, including the honeycomb and Kagom\'{e} lattices, verifying their accuracy on each occasion by comparing the interpolated band structures against the originals. To achieve this, we calculate the maximally-localized generalized Wannier basis by implementing the steepest-descent algorithm of Marzari and Vanderbilt [N. Marzari and D. Vanderbilt, Phys. Rev. B 56, 12847 (1997)] directly in one and two dimensions. To avoid local minima we develop an initialization procedure that is both robust and requires no prior knowledge of the optimal Wannier basis. The MATLAB code that implements our full procedure is freely available online at this http URL

id: 1303.2235
title: Off-resonant Raman echo quantum memory on atoms with natural inhomogeneous broadening in optical QED cavity
authors: S. A. Moiseev
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: Physical Review A 88.1 (2013): 012304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2235
abstract: A new scheme of photon echo based quantum memory in the optimal optical QED cavity with off-resonant Raman atomic transition is proposed. The scheme employs the atomic ensembles characterized by an optically thin resonant transition and natural inhomogeneous broadening of the resonant line composed of the arbitrary narrow homogeneous spectral components. The scheme provides robust and quite simple coherent control of the light-atoms dynamics that can be implemented by using an existing optical technique and opens a practical way for realization of the efficient long-lived multi-mode optical quantum memory.

id: 1303.2298
title: 0-th quantization or quantum (information) theory in 42 minutes
authors: J.A. Miszczak
comments: introductory material presented as a part of the talk given at IITiS PAN in January 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2298
abstract: We present a concise introduction of basic concepts in quantum information theory and quantum mechanics prepared as an introduction for a general audience. In our approach the rules of quantum mechanics are presented in a simple form of rules describing the method of constructing quantum objects corresponding to classical objects. As a byproduct of the introduced approach, we present some alternative rules and use them to describe basic ingredients of quantum information theory using different types of objects.

id: 1303.2328
title: Using basis sets of scar functions
authors: F. Revuelta, R. M. Benito, F. Borondo, E. Vergini
comments: 26 pages, 22 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2328
abstract: We present a method to efficiently compute the eigenfunctions of classically chaotic systems. The key point is the definition of a modified Gram-Schmidt procedure which selects the most suitable elements from a basis set of scar functions localized along the shortest periodic orbits of the system. In this way, one benefits from the semiclassical dynamical properties of such functions. The performance of the method is assessed by presenting an application to a quartic two dimensional oscillator whose classical dynamics are highly chaotic. We have been able to compute the eigenfunctions of the system using a small basis set. An estimate of the basis size is obtained from the mean participation ratio. A thorough analysis of the results using different indicators, such as eigenstate reconstruction in the local representation, scar intensities, participation ratios, and error bounds, is also presented.

id: 1303.2377
title: Dynamical Localization of Bose-Einstein condensate in Optomechanics
authors: Muhammad Ayub, Kashif Ammar Yasir, Farhan Saif
comments: 5pages, 3 figures
journal: Laser Phys. 24 115503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2377
abstract: We explain dynamical localization of Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in optomechanics both in position and in momentum space. The experimentally realizable optomechanical system is a Fabry-Perot cavity with one moving end mirror and driven by single mode standing field. In our study we analyze variations in modulation strength and effective Plank's constant. Keeping in view present day experimental advances we provide set of parameters to observe the phenomenon in laboratory.

id: 1303.2428
title: Experimental quantum Zeno effect in NMR with entanglement-based measurement
authors: Wenqiang Zheng, D. Z. Xu, Xinhua Peng, Xianyi Zhou, Jiangfeng Du, C. P. Sun
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Accepted in Phys. Rev. A (2013)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032112 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2428
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a new dynamic fashion of quantum Zeno effect in nuclear magnetic resonance systems. The frequent measurements are implemented through quantum entanglement between the target qubit(s) and the measuring qubit, which dynamically results from the unitary evolution of duration $\tau_{m}$ due to dispersive-coupling. Experimental results testify the presence of "the critical measurement time effect", that is, the quantum Zeno effect does not occur when $\tau_{m}$ takes the some critical values, even if the measurements are frequent enough. Moreover, we provide a first experimental demonstration of an entanglement preservation mechanism based on such dynamic quantum Zeno effect.

id: 1303.2433
title: Device-independent demonstration of genuine multipartite entanglement
authors: Julio T. Barreiro, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Philipp Schindler, Daniel Nigg, Markus Hennrich, Thomas Monz, Nicolas Gisin, Rainer Blatt
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, 2 tables and appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2433
abstract: Entanglement in a quantum system can be demonstrated experimentally by performing the measurements prescribed by an appropriate entanglement witness. However, the unavoidable mismatch between the implementation of measurements in practical devices and their precise theoretical modelling generally results in the undesired possibility of false-positive entanglement detection. Such scenarios can be avoided by using the recently developed device-independent entanglement witnesses (DIEWs) for genuine multipartite entanglement. Similarly to Bell inequalities, DIEWs only assume that consistent measurements are performed locally on each subsystem. No precise description of the measurement devices is required. Here we report an experimental test of DIEWs on up to six entangled 40Ca+ ions. We also demonstrate genuine multipartite quantum nonlocality between up to six parties with the detection loophole closed.

id: 1303.2490
title: Certified quantum non-demolition measurement of a macroscopic material system
authors: R.J.Sewell, M.Napolitano, N.Behbood, G.Colangelo, M.W.Mitchell
comments: 2 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 517 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2490
abstract: Quantum non-demolition (QND) measurements improve sensitivity by evading measurement back-action. The technique was first proposed to detect mechanical oscillations in gravity wave detectors,and demonstrated in the measurement of optical fields, leading to the development of rigorous criteria to distinguish QND from similar non-classical measurements. Recent QND measurements of macroscopic material systems such as atomic ensembles, and mechanical oscillators, show some QND features, but not full QND character. Here we demonstrate certified QND measurement of the collective spin of an atomic ensemble. We observe quantum state preparation (QSP) and information-damage trade-off (IDT) beyond their classical limits by seven and twelve standard deviations, respectively. Our techniques complement recent work with microscopic systems, and can be used for quantum metrology and memory, the preparation and detection of non-gaussian states, and proposed quantum simulation and information protocols. They should enable QND measurements of dynamical quantum variables and the realization of QND-based quantum information protocols.

id: 1303.2499
title: Interplay of roughness/modulation and curvature at proximity
authors: Matthias Kr¨¹ger, Vladyslav A. Golyk, Giuseppe Bimonte, Mehran Kardar
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 104, 41001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2499
abstract: We show that roughness or surface modulations change the distance dependence of (power-law) interactions between curved objects at proximity. The modified scaling law is then simply related to the order of the first non-vanishing coefficient of the Taylor expansion of the distribution of separations between the surfaces. The latter can in principle be estimated by scanning measurements, or computed for well characterized modulations, and then used to predict short-distance scaling behavior in disparate experiments. For example, we predict that the radiative heat transfer between a rough sphere and a plate approaches a constant with decreasing separation. Similar saturation is expected for the Casimir force between dielectric or metallic surfaces with appropriate modulations over distinct length scales.

id: 1303.2516
title: Nonlinear coherent states for the Susskind-Glogower operators
authors: Roberto de Jes¨²s Le¨®n-Montiel, Hector Manuel Moya-Cessa, Francisco Soto-Eguibar
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures, Conference Quantum Optics V, Published as: REVISTA MEXICANA DE F\'ISICA S 57 (3) 133-147
journal: Revista Mexicana de F\'isica 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2516
abstract: We construct nonlinear coherent states for the Susskind-Glogower operators by the application of the displacement operator on the vacuum state. We also construct nonlinear coherent states as eigenfunctions of a Hamiltonian constructed with the Susskind-Glogower operators. We generalize the solution of the eigen- function problem to an arbitrary |mi initial condition. To analyze the obtained results, we plot the Husimi Q function, the photon number probability distribution and the Mandel Q-parameter. For both cases, we find that the constructed states exhibit interesting nonclassical features, such as amplitude squeezing and quantum interferences due to a self-splitting into two coherent-like states. Additionally, we show that non- linear coherent states may be modeled by propagating light in semi-infinite arrays of optical fibers.

id: 1303.2520
title: Resonant states and pseudospin symmetry in the Dirac Morse potential
authors: Quan Liu, Zhong-Ming Niu, Jian-You Guo
comments: Some literatures on the pseudospin symmetry are supplied and the paper will be published in Physical review A
journal: Physical Review A 87, 052122 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2520
abstract: The complex scaling method is applied to study the resonances of a Dirac particle in a Morse potential. The applicability of the method is demonstrated with the results compared with the available data. It is shown that the present calculations in the nonrelativistic limit are in excellent agreement with the nonrelativistic calculations. Further, the dependence of the resonant parameters on the shape of the potential is checked, and the unusual sensitivity to the potential parameters is revealed. By comparing the energies and widths of the pseudospin doublets, well pseudospin symmetry is discovered in the present model. The relationship between the pseudospin symmetry and the shape of the potential is investigated by changing the Morse potential shaped by the dissociation energy, the equilibrium intermolecular distance, and the positive number controlling the decay length of the potential.

id: 1303.2631
title: Quantum filtering using POVM measurements
authors: Ram A. Somaraju, Alain Sarlette, Hugo Thienpont
comments: 6 Pages, Accepted to CDC 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2631
abstract: The objective of this work is to develop a recursive, discrete time quantum filtering equation for a system that interacts with a probe, on which measurements are performed according to the Positive Operator Valued Measures (POVMs) framework. POVMs are the most general measurements one can make on a quantum system and although in principle they can be reformulated as projective measurements on larger spaces, for which filtering results exist, a direct treatment of POVMs is more natural and can simplify the filter computations for some applications. Hence we formalize the notion of strongly commuting (Davies) instruments which allows one to develop joint measurement statistics for POVM type measurements. This allows us to prove the existence of conditional POVMs, which is essential for the development of a filtering equation. We demonstrate that under generally satisfied assumptions, knowing the observed probe POVM operator is sufficient to uniquely specify the quantum filtering evolution for the system.

id: 1303.2716
title: Quantum phase transitions of three-level atoms interacting with a one-mode electromagnetic field
authors: Sergio Cordero, Ram¨®n L¨®pez-Pe?a, Octavio Casta?os, Eduardo Nahmad-Achar
comments: 5 pp., 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A {\bf 87}, 023805 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2716
abstract: We apply the energy surface method to study a system of Na three-level atoms interacting with a one-mode radiation field in the \Xi, \Lambda and V configurations. We obtain an estimation of the ground-state energy, the expectation value of the total number of excitations, and the separatrix of the model in the interaction parameter space, and compare the results with the exact solutions. We have first and second-order phase transitions, except for the V configuration which only presents second-order phase-transitions.

id: 1303.2719
title: Another Survey of Foundational Attitudes Towards Quantum Mechanics
authors: Christoph Sommer
comments: 10 pages, 18 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2719
abstract: Although it has been almost 100 years since the beginnings of quantum mechanics, the discussions about its interpretation still do not cease. Therefore, a survey of opinions regarding this matter is of particular interest. This poll was conducted following an idea and using the methodology of Schlosshauer et al. (arXiv:1301.1069 [quant-ph]), but among a slightly different group. It is supposed to give another snapshot of attitudes towards the interpretation of quantum mechanics and keep discourse about this topic alive.

id: 1303.2756
title: Protecting dissipative quantum state preparation via dynamical decoupling
authors: Z. R. Gong, Wang Yao
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032314 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2756
abstract: We show that dissipative quantum state preparation processes can be protected against qubit dephasing by interlacing the state preparation control with dynamical decoupling (DD) control consisting of a sequence of short $\pi$-pulses. The inhomogeneous broadening can be suppressed to second order of the pulse interval, and the protection efficiency is nearly independent of the pulse sequence but determined by the average interval between pulses. The DD protection is numerically tested and found to be efficient against inhomogeneous dephasing on two exemplary dissipative state preparation schemes that use collective pumping to realize many-body singlets and linear cluster states respectively. Numerical simulation also shows that the state preparation can be efficiently protected by $\pi$-pulses with completely random arrival time. Our results make possible the application of these state preparation schemes in inhomogeneously broadened systems. DD protection of state preparation against dynamical noises is also discussed using the example of Gaussian noise with a semiclasscial description.

id: 1303.2778
title: Nonclasscial interference between independent intrinsically pure single photons at telecom wavelength
authors: Ruibo Jin, Kentaro Wakui, Ryosuke Shimizu, Hugo Benichi, Shigehito Miki, Taro Yamashita, Hirotaka Terai, Zhen Wang, Mikio Fujiwara, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2778
abstract: We demonstrate a Hong-Ou-Mandel interference between two independent, intrinsically pure, heralded single photons from spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC) at telecom wavelength. A visibility of $85.5\pm8.3%$ was achieved without using any bandpass filter. Thanks to the group-velocity-matched SPDC and superconducting nanowire single photon detectors (SNSPDs), the 4-fold coincidence counts are one order higher than that in the previous experiments. The combination of bright single photon sources and SNSPDs is a crucial step for future practical quantum info-communication systems at telecom wavelength.

id: 1303.2780
title: Entangled state generation with an intrinsically pure single-photon source and a weak coherent source
authors: Rui-Bo Jin, Ryosuke Shimizu, Fumihiro Kaneda, Yasuyoshi Mitsumori, Hideo Kosaka, Keiichi Edamatsu
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2780
abstract: We report on the experimental generation of an entangled state with a spectrally pure heralded single-photon state and a weak coherent state. By choosing group-velocity matching in the nonlinear crystal, our system for producing entangled photons was 60 times brighter than that in the earlier experiment [Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 240401 (2003)], with no need of bandpass filters. This entanglement system is useful for quantum information protocols that require indistinguishable photons from independent sources.

id: 1303.2811
title: Photonic Simulation of System-Environment Interaction: Non-Markovian Process and Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Chang-Ling Zou, Xiang-Dong Chen, Xiao Xiong, Fang-Wen Sun, Xu-Bo Zou, Zheng-Fu Han, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063806 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2811
abstract: The system-environment interaction is simulated by light propagating in coupled photonic waveguides. The profile of the electromagnetic field provides intuitive physical insight to study the Markovian and non-Markovian dynamics of open quantum systems. The transition from non-Markovian to Markovian process is demonstrated by increasing the size of environment, as the energy evolution changes from oscillating to an exponential decay, and the revival period increases. Moreover, the dynamical decoupling with a sequence of phase modulations is introduced to such a photonic open system to form a band structure in time dimension, where the energy dissipation can be significantly accelerated or inhibited. It opens the possibility to tune the dissipation in photonic system, similar to the dynamic decoupling of spins.

id: 1303.2832
title: Local random quantum circuits: ensemble CP maps and swap algebras
authors: Paolo Zanardi
comments: 14 pages, close to the published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 082204 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2832
abstract: We define different classes of local random quantum circuits (L-RQC) and show that: a) statistical properties of L-RQC are encoded into an associated family of completely positive maps and b) average purity dynamics can be described by the action of these maps on operator algebras of permutations (swap algebras). An exactly solvable one-dimensional case is analyzed to illustrate the power of the swap algebra formalism. More in general, we prove short time area-law bounds on average purity for uncorrelated L-RQC and infinite time results for both the uncorrelated and correlated cases.

id: 1303.2834
title: Psi-Epistemic Theories: The Role of Symmetry
authors: Scott Aaronson, Adam Bouland, Lynn Chua, George Lowther
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures, added generalization of no-go theorem to handle ontic state space U(d)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2834
abstract: Formalizing an old desire of Einstein, "psi-epistemic theories" try to reproduce the predictions of quantum mechanics, while viewing quantum states as ordinary probability distributions over underlying objects called "ontic states." Regardless of one's philosophical views about such theories, the question arises of whether one can cleanly rule them out, by proving no-go theorems analogous to the Bell Inequality. In the 1960s, Kochen and Specker (who first studied these theories) constructed an elegant psi-epistemic theory for Hilbert space dimension d=2, but also showed that any deterministic psi-epistemic theory must be "measurement contextual" in dimensions 3 and higher. Last year, the topic attracted renewed attention, when Pusey, Barrett, and Rudolph (PBR) showed that any psi-epistemic theory must "behave badly under tensor product." In this paper, we prove that even without the Kochen-Specker or PBR assumptions, there are no psi-epistemic theories in dimensions d>=3 that satisfy two reasonable conditions: (1) symmetry under unitary transformations, and (2) "maximum nontriviality" (meaning that the probability distributions corresponding to any two non-orthogonal states overlap). This no-go theorem holds if the ontic space is either the set of quantum states or the set of unitaries. The proof of this result, in the general case, uses some measure theory and differential geometry. On the other hand, we also show the surprising result that without the symmetry restriction, one can construct maximally-nontrivial psi-epistemic theories in every finite dimension d.

id: 1303.2849
title: Bell nonlocality
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Daniel Cavalcanti, Stefano Pironio, Valerio Scarani, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 65 pages, 7 figures. Final version
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 86, 419 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2849
abstract: Bell's 1964 theorem, which states that the predictions of quantum theory cannot be accounted for by any local theory, represents one of the most profound developments in the foundations of physics. In the last two decades, Bell's theorem has been a central theme of research from a variety of perspectives, mainly motivated by quantum information science, where the nonlocality of quantum theory underpins many of the advantages afforded by a quantum processing of information. The focus of this review is to a large extent oriented by these later developments. We review the main concepts and tools which have been developed to describe and study the nonlocality of quantum theory, and which have raised this topic to the status of a full sub-field of quantum information science.

id: 1303.2852
title: Universal and optimal error thresholds for measurement-based entanglement purification
authors: M. Zwerger, H. J. Briegel, W. D¨¹r
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 260503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2852
abstract: We investigate measurement-based entanglement purification protocols (EPP) in the presence of local noise and imperfections. We derive a universal, protocol-independent threshold for the required quality of the local resource states, where we show that local noise per particle of up to 24% is tolerable. This corresponds to an increase of the noise threshold by almost an order of magnitude, based on the joint measurement-based implementation of sequential rounds of few-particle EPP. We generalize our results to multipartite EPP, where we encounter similarly high error thresholds.

id: 1303.2867
title: "Systemic Nonlocality" from Changing Constraints on Sub-Quantum Kinematics
authors: Gerhard Groessing, Siegfried Fussy, Johannes Mesa Pascasio, Herbert Schwabl
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures; Invited talk "In Defense of Schroedinger" at the Sixth International Workshop DICE2012, Castiglioncello (Tuscany), September 17--21, 2012
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. (2013) 442 012012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2867
abstract: In a new approach to explain double-slit interference "from the single particle perspective" via "systemic nonlocality", we answer the question of how a particle going through one slit can "know" about the state of the other slit. We show that this comes about by changed constraints on assumed classical sub-quantum currents, which we have recently employed to derive probability distributions and Bohm-type trajectories in standard double-slit interference on the basis of a modern, 21st century classical physics. Despite claims in the literature that this scenario is to be described by a dynamical nonlocality that could best be understood in the framework of the Heisenberg picture (Tollaksen et al., 2010), we show that an explanation can be cast within the framework of the intuitively appealing Schroedinger picture as well. We refer neither to potentials nor to a "quantum force" or some other dynamics, but show that a "systemic nonlocality" may be obtained as a phenomenon that emerges from an assumed sub-quantum kinematics, which is manipulated only by changing its constraints as determined by the changes of the apparatus. Consequences are discussed with respect to the prohibition of superluminal signaling by standard relativity theory.

id: 1303.2953
title: Collision and capture dynamics in a quantum dot: The role of doubly excited states
authors: S?lve Selst?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2953
abstract: We investigate collision dynamics involving two electrons and a quantum dot embedded in a quantum wire. One electron is initially at rest in the ground state of the dot, whereas the other electron is incident on the dot with a rather well defined velocity. Excitation, reflection and transmission probabilities are obtained by resolving the dynamics explicitly. Also, the probability of both electrons being unbound after collision is studied. It is found that the dynamics is strongly influenced by the presence of doubly excited states; reflection becomes considerably more probable in the energetic vicinity of such states. This, in turn, contributes to an increase in the probability of trapping also the second electron within the dot.

id: 1303.2972
title: Looking into the collapse of quantum states with entangled photons
authors: M. G. M. Moreno, Fernando Parisio
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2972
abstract: We propose a scheme to investigate the time scale of the wave-function collapse by using polarization-entangled photon pairs. The setup is similar to those employed to investigate quantum correlations, but in the present case, synchronization is essential at all stages. We find that it is possible to discriminate between the scenarios of instantaneous collapse and finite-time reduction via a large number of double measurements of polarization. The quantities to be recorded would present distinct behaviors in each scenario, the deviations being small but distinguishable from pure statistical fluctuations.

id: 1303.2977
title: Cavity optomechanics with a trapped, interacting Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: D. Nagy, G. Szirmai, P. Domokos
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 67, 124 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2977
abstract: The dispersive interaction of a Bose-Einstein condensate with a single mode of a high-finesse optical cavity realizes the radiation pressure coupling Hamiltonian. In this system the role of the mechanical oscillator is played by a single condensate excitation mode that is selected by the cavity mode function. We study the effect of atomic s-wave collisions and show that it merely renormalizes parameters of the usual optomechanical interaction. Moreover, we show that even in the case of strong harmonic confinement---which invalidates the use of Bloch states---a single excitation mode of the Bose-Einstein condensate couples significantly to the light field, that is the simplified picture of a single "mechanical" oscillator mode remains valid.

id: 1303.3025
title: Quantum Speedup and Categorical Distributivity
authors: Peter Hines
comments: 17 pages, 11 Figures
journal: Coecke, Ong, Panangaden (ed.s), Computation, Logic, Games and Quantum Foundations (Abramsky FestSchrift), Springer LNCS 7860, (2013) pp.122-138
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3025
abstract: This paper studies one of the best known quantum algorithms - Shor's factorisation algorithm - via categorical distributivity. A key aim of the paper is to provide a minimal set of categorical requirements for key parts of the algorithm, in order to establish the most general setting in which the required operations may be performed efficiently. We demonstrate that Laplaza's theory of coherence for distributivity provides a purely categorical proof of the operational equivalence of two quantum circuits, with the notable property that one is exponentially more efficient than the other. This equivalence also exists in a wide range of categories. When applied to the category of finite dimensional Hilbert spaces, we recover the usual efficient implementation of the quantum oracles at the heart of both Shor's algorithm and quantum period-finding generally; however, it is also applicable in a much wider range of settings.

id: 1303.3066
title: Distillation protocols for Fourier states in quantum computing
authors: Cody Jones
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3066
abstract: Fourier states are multi-qubit registers that facilitate phase rotations in fault-tolerant quantum computing. We propose distillation protocols for constructing the fundamental, $n$-qubit Fourier state with error $O(2^{-n})$ at a cost of $O(n \log n)$ Toffoli gates and Clifford gates, or any arbitrary Fourier state using $O(n^2)$ gates. We analyze these protocols with methods from digital signal processing. These results suggest that phase kickback, which uses Fourier states, could be the current lowest-overhead method for generating arbitrary phase rotations.

id: 1303.3081
title: The device-independent outlook on quantum physics (lecture notes on the power of Bell's theorem)
authors: Valerio Scarani
comments: As lecture notes, this text focuses on a selection of topics and spells out basic material in detail. For a comprehensive review paper, refer to arXiv:1303.2849. v2: modified 2.2.1 (how to introduce local variables) and 2.4.5 (the meaning of Bell violation); clarified 4.2.3 (self-testing); a few typos corrected
journal: Acta Physica Slovaca 62, 347 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3081
abstract: This text is an introduction to an operational outlook on Bell inequalities, which has been very fruitful in the past few years. It has lead to the recognition that Bell tests have their own place in applied quantum technologies, because they quantify non-classicality in a device-independent way, that is, without any need to describe the degrees of freedom under study and the measurements that are performed. At the more fundamental level, the same device-independent outlook has allowed the falsification of several other alternative models that could hope to reproduce the observed statistics while keeping some classical features that quantum theory denies; and it has shed new light on the long-standing quest for deriving quantum theory from physical principles.

id: 1303.3091
title: Competition of different evaluation schemes in the continuous variable game
authors: Shang-Bin Li
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, RevTex4, some references are added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3091
abstract: An asymmetric generalization of classical Cournot's duopoly game was introduced and the simulation scheme of its quantized version was analyzed. In this scheme, the player assigned by a 'classical' measurement scheme always wins the player assigned by a quantum measurement scheme. It was shown that the fluctuation causes the disadvantage game rule of the 'quantum' player.

id: 1303.3096
title: Optimal approximate transpose map via quantum designs and its applications to entanglement detection
authors: Amir Kalev, Joonwoo Bae
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062314 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3096
abstract: We show that quantum designs characterize the general structure of the optimal approximation of the transpose map on quantum states. Based on this characterization, we propose an implementation of the approximate transpose map by a measurement-and-preparation scheme. The results show that state-manipulation in quantum two-designs suffices for transpose-based quantu3 information applications. In particular, we present how these results can be applied to the framework of detecting multipartite entangled states, for instance, when local measurements or interferometry-based experimental approaches are applied.

id: 1303.3129
title: Single-photon coherent transparency in a coupled atoms-waveguide system
authors: Wei-Bin Yan, Heng Fan
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3129
abstract: We investigate the single-photon propagation in the one-dimensional waveguide coupled to $N$ two-level atoms. For a waveguide coupled to $N$ distant atoms, the transparency can be induced by coherent interaction at resonance for an $even$ $number$ of $N$, while for an $odd$ $number$ of $N$, the photon can be fully reflected. We then can switch the photon transport by controlling the atomic number. For a waveguide coupled to a small atomic ensemble of $N$ atoms in the same position, the transparency disappears, and the photonic transport property displays a jump behavior near the resonance point.

id: 1303.3132
title: Tunable interfaces for realizing universal quantum computation with topological qubits
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue, L. B. Shao, Yong Hu, Shi-Liang Zhu, Z. D. Wang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 024303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3132
abstract: We propose to implement tunable interfaces for realizing universal quantum computation with topological qubits. One interface is between the topological and superconducting qubits, which can realize arbitrary single-qubit gate on the topological qubit. When two qubits are involved, the interface between the topological qubits and a microwave cavity can induce a nontrivial two-qubit gate, which can not be constructed based on braiding operations. The two interfaces, being tunable via an external magnetic flux, may serve as the building blocks towards universal quantum computation with topological qubits.

id: 1303.3151
title: The Potential Energy Surface in Molecular Quantum Mechanics
authors: Brian Sutcliffe, R. Guy Woolley
comments: 18 pages, Proceedings of QSCP-XVII, Turku, Finland 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3151
abstract: The idea of a Potential Energy Surface (PES) forms the basis of almost all accounts of the mechanisms of chemical reactions, and much of theoretical molecular spectroscopy. It is assumed that, in principle, the PES can be calculated by means of clamped-nuclei electronic structure calculations based upon the Schr\"{o}dinger Coulomb Hamiltonian. This article is devoted to a discussion of the origin of the idea, its development in the context of the Old Quantum Theory, and its present status in the quantum mechanics of molecules. It is argued that its present status must be regarded as uncertain.

id: 1303.3179
title: Restriction on types of coherent states due to gauge symmetry
authors: Masao Matsumoto
comments: LaTex 2e with ws-ijmpb.cls file, 23 pages, 2 Tables. PACS Numbers: 03.65.Ca, 03.65.Vf, 03.67.-a, 11.30.-j, 14.80.Hv, 76.60.-k, 76.69.Gv. Two paragraphs, in which we stress as well as clarify the originality of the paper and comment on possible relations between our formalism and teleportation fidelity in quantum information respectively, and several references have been added
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, Vol. 28, No. 14 (2014) 1450082
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3179
abstract: From the viewpoint of the SU(2) coherent states (CS) and their path integrals (PI) labeled by a full set of Euler angles $(\phi, \theta, \psi)$ which we developed in the previous paper, we study the relations between gauge symmetries of Lagrangians and allowed quantum states; we investigate permissible types of fiducial vectors (FV) in the full quantum dynamics in terms of SU(2) coherent states for typical Lagrangians. We propose a general framework for a Lagrangian having a certain gauge symmetry with respect to one of the Euler angles $\psi$. We find that for the case fiducial vectors are so restricted that they belong to the eigenstates of ${\hat S}_3$ or to the orbits of them under the action of the SU(2); and the strength of a fictitious monopole, which appears in the Lagrangian, is a multiple of $\frac12$. In this case Dirac strings are permitted. Our formulations and results deepen those of the preceding work by Stone that has piloted us; we illustrate the relation between the two methods. The reasoning here does not work for a Lagrangian without the gauge symmetry. This suggests a new possibility about monopole charge quantization. Besides analogies to field theory and entanglements in quantum information (QI) are briefly mentioned.

id: 1303.3352
title: Vacuum excited SPPs
authors: Wade Naylor
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX; version 2, reference added, minor changes made; version 3, sections updated, new plots & supplemental notes added (3 pages)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 053804 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3352
abstract: We separate Maxwell's equations for general background media that allow for both electric and magnetic time-dependence in a generalized Lorenz gauge. In a process analogous to photon-photon creation via the dynamical Casimir effect (DCE) we discuss how surface plasmon polaritons (SPP)s can be created out of vacuum via a time-dependent variation of a dielectric crystal. We suggest how to extend currently proposed DCE experiments to set up and detect these excitations. Numerical simulations indicate (without any approximation) that vacuum excited SPPs can dominate over the parametric photon creation rate in such experiments. Potential benefits of vacuum excited SPPs are they do not require a sealed cavity to get parametric enhancement and they are easier to detect because of insensitivity to detuning arising from time-dependence of the dielectric.

id: 1303.3367
title: Ground state of a resonant two-qubit Rabi model in the ultrastrong coupling regime
authors: Kelvin M. C. Lee, C. K. Law
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3367
abstract: We consider a generalized Rabi model formed by two identical qubits interacting with a common oscillator mode. In the near resonance configuration where the oscillator frequency is close to the transition frequency of the qubit, we determine the ground state of the model approximately by using a variational method and a transformation method. Both methods are shown to provide good agreement with the exact numerical ground state for a range of coupling strength in the ultrastrong regime. In addition, we indicate how the accuracy of the approximation can be further improved by using perturbation theory. We also examine the ground state entanglement between the two qubits. By calculating the negativity, we quantify the degree of entanglement as a function of coupling strength.

id: 1303.3406
title: Generation of polarization-entangled photon pairs in a Bragg reflection waveguide
authors: A. Valles, M. Hendrych, J. Svozilik, R. Machulka, P. Abolghasem, D. Kang, B. J. Bijlani, A. S. Helmy, J. P. Torres
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Optics Express 21, 10841-10849 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3406
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally that spontaneous parametric down-conversion in an AlGaAs semiconductor Bragg reflection waveguide can make for paired photons highly entangled in the polarization degree of freedom at the telecommunication wavelength of 1550 nm. The pairs of photons show visibility higher than 90% in several polarization bases and violate a Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt Bell-like inequality by more than 3 standard deviations. This represents a significant step toward the realization of efficient and versatile self pumped sources of entangled photon pairs on-chip.

id: 1303.3412
title: Decoherence, relaxation and chaos in a kicked-spin ensemble
authors: David Viennot, Lucile Aubourg
comments: old title: Schrodinger's cat kicked by Arnold's cat
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 062903 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3412
abstract: We study the dynamics of a quantum spin ensemble controlled by trains of ultrashort pulses. To model disturbances of the kicks, we consider that the spins are submitted to different kick trains which follow regular, random, stochastic or chaotic dynamical processes. These are described by dynamical systems on a torus. We study the quantum decoherence and the population relaxation of the spin ensemble induced by these classical dynamical processes disturbing the kick trains. For chaotic kick trains we show that the decoherence and the relaxation processes exhibit a signature of chaos directly related to the Lyapunov exponents of the dynamical system. This signature is a horizon of coherence, i.e. a preliminary duration without decoherence followed by a rapid decoherence process.

id: 1303.3432
title: Discrete-time quantum walk with feed-forward quantum coin
authors: Yutaka Shikano, Tatsuaki Wada, Junsei Horikawa
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures, movie file is available from this http URL
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 4427 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3432
abstract: Constructing a discrete model like a cellular automaton is a powerful method for understanding various dynamical systems. However, the relationship between the discrete model and its continuous analogue is, in general, nontrivial. As a quantum-mechanical cellular automaton, a discrete-time quantum walk is defined to include various quantum dynamical behavior. Here we generalize a discrete-time quantum walk on a line into the feed-forward quantum coin model, which depends on the coin state of the previous step. We show that our proposed model has an anomalous slow diffusion characterized by the porous-medium equation, while the conventional discrete-time quantum walk model shows ballistic transport.

id: 1303.3437
title: Criterion on remote clocks synchronization within a Heisenberg scaling accuracy
authors: Yong-Liang Zhang, Yu-Ran Zhang, Liang-Zhu Mu, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052314 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3437
abstract: We propose a quantum method to judge whether two spatially separated clocks have been synchronized within a specific accuracy $\sigma$. If the measurement result of the experiment is obviously a nonzero value, the time difference between two clocks is smaller than $\sigma$; otherwise the difference is beyond $\sigma$. On sharing the 2$N$-qubit bipartite maximally entangled state in this scheme, the accuracy of judgement can be enhanced to $\sigma\sim{\pi}/{(\omega(N+1))}$. This criterion is consistent with Heisenberg scaling that can be considered as beating standard quantum limit, moreover, the unbiased estimation condition is not necessary.

id: 1303.3447
title: Observing controlled quantum state collapse in a single quantum trajectory of a mechanical oscillator
authors: A. A. Gangat
comments: 2 figures. v2: Different expression for variance, improved numerical data. v3: New title and abstract, 1 added figure, further improved numerical data. Substantially rewritten to better convey fundamental significance, v4: New title, abstract, introduction, conclusion; more explanation of connection to previous studies in other platforms
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063846 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3447
abstract: A fundamental prediction of quantum theory that is derived from the "projection postulate" is that under continuous measurement, the state of a system traces out a "quantum trajectory" in time that depends upon its measurement record, and that in certain situations, the quantum state of a system stochastically collapses at a finite rate toward a random eigenstate. On the other hand, quantum theory also predicts that environmental coupling produces the opposite effect of spreading the wave function into a mixed state. Studying the effect of these two competing processes, as the ratio of their strengths is varied, on the distribution of a quantum state is of fundamental interest in any setting, but especially so in the mechanical realm. A key issue, however, is that a fundamental study of such physics can not entail an a priori assumption of the projection postulate itself, and Bayesian inference may therefore not be employed to observe the quantum state. In this theoretical work we propose a feasible way to perform such a fundamental test with a mechanical wave function in the energy eigenbasis. The scheme is based on an optomechanical setup wherein optical fields provide a direct probe of the energy variance of the mechanical wave function. Such an energy variance probe is unprecedented in any type of system. Numerical simulations that incorporate the projection postulate predict a monotonic decrease in the time-averaged energy variance as the ratio of continuous measurement strength to dissipation is increased. The measurement strength in the proposed scheme is tunable in situ, and the behavior predicted by the simulations therefore implies that the scheme amounts to a way to verifiably control in situ the time-averaged variance of a mechanical wave function over the course of a single quantum trajectory.

id: 1303.3456
title: Quantum repeaters and quantum key distribution: the impact of entanglement distillation on the secret key rate
authors: Sylvia Bratzik, Silvestre Abruzzo, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87, 062335 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3456
abstract: We investigate quantum repeaters in the context of quantum key distribution. We optimize the secret key rate per memory per second with respect to different distillation protocols and distillation strategies. For this purpose, we also derive an analytical expression for the average number of entangled pairs created by the quantum repeater, including classical communication times for entanglement swapping and entanglement distillation. We investigate the impact of this classical communication time on the secret key rate. We finally study the effect of the detector efficiency on the secret key rate.

id: 1303.3462
title: Weyl law for contractive maps
authors: Mar¨ªa E. Spina, Alejandro M. F. Rivas, Gabriel G. Carlo
comments: (6 pages, 4 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3462
abstract: We find the Weyl law followed by the eigenvalues of contractive maps. An important property is that it is mainly insensitive to the dimension of the corresponding invariant classical set, the strange attractor. The usual explanation for the fractal Weyl law emergence in scattering systems (i.e., having a projective opening) is based on classical phase space distributions evolved up to the quantum to classical correspondence (Ehrenfest) time. In the contractive case this reasoning fails to describe it. Instead, we conjecture that the support for this behavior is essentially given by the strong non-orthogonality of the eigenvectors of the contractive superoperator.

id: 1303.3484
title: Key rate for calibration robust entanglement based BB84 quantum key distribution protocol
authors: Oleg Gittsovich, Tobias Moroder
comments: To appear in proceedings of the QCMC 12, held in Vienna, Austria, July 30th to August 3rd 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3484
abstract: We apply the approach of verifying entanglement, which is based on the sole knowledge of the dimension of the underlying physical system to the entanglement based version of the BB84 quantum key distribution protocol. We show that the familiar one-way key rate formula holds already if one assumes the assumption that one of the parties is measuring a qubit and no further assumptions about the measurement are needed.

id: 1303.3490
title: Transmon-phonon coupling of plasma oscillations and lattice vibrations
authors: Andrew J. Skinner
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3490
abstract: In the transmon qubit we expect from conservation of momentum and energy a coupling between the plasma oscillations and the vibrations of the underlying lattice. Specifically, the electron velocities and their kinetic energy density are boosted by the underlying lattice vibrations. We consider this effect in a representative transmon comprising two semi-circular superconducting charge islands joined by a Josephson junction. In particular, we solve the Fourier transform of a two-dimensional radial current density having inversion symmetry. The resulting spectral density is ohmic but also scales quadratically with the critical current I_c and logarithmically with the size of the transmon: J(w) ~ I_c^2 w log(kR). We make positive-definite Born-Markov approximations in a generalized Fermi's Golden Rule and estimate the phonon-induced dephasing rate is negligible compared to current experiments.

id: 1303.3505
title: Post-selected indistinguishable single-photon emission from the Mollow triplet sidebands of a resonantly excited quantum dot
authors: Stefanie Weiler, Daniel Stojanovic, Sven M. Ulrich, Michael Jetter, Peter Michler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3505
abstract: Applying high power continuous-wave resonant s-shell excitation to a single self-assembled In- GaAs quantum dot, we demonstrate the generation of post-selected single-indistinguishable photons from the Mollow triplet sidebands. A sophisticated spatial filtering technique based on a double Michelson interferometer enabled us to separate the spectrally close lying individual Mollow components and perform almost background free two-photon interference measurements. Showing high consistency with the results of an independent determination of the emission coherence of 250 +/- 30 ps, our analysis reveals a close to ideal visibility contrast of up to 97 %. Due to their easy spectral tunability and their distinct advantage of cascaded photon emission between the individual Mollow sidebands, they resemble a versatile tool for quantum information applications.

id: 1303.3550
title: Nonlinear light scattering in molecules triggered by an impulsive X-ray Raman process
authors: Konstantin E. Dorfman, Kochise Bennett, Yu Zhang, Shaul Mukamel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3550
abstract: The time-and-frequency resolved nonlinear light scattering (NLS) signals from a time evolving charge distribution of valence electrons prepared by impulsive X-ray pulses are calculated using a superoperator Green's function formalism. The signal consists of a coherent $\sim N^2$-scaling difference frequency generation and an incoherent fluorescence $\sim N$-scaling component where $N$ is the number of active molecules. The former is given by the classical Larmor formula based on the time-dependent charge density. The latter requires additional information about the electronic structure and may be recast in terms of transition amplitudes representing quantum matter pathways.

id: 1303.3557
title: Linear-Depth Quantum Circuits for n-qubit Toffoli gates with no Ancilla
authors: Mehdi Saeedi, Massoud Pedram
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3557
abstract: We design a circuit structure with linear depth to implement an $n$-qubit Toffoli gate. The proposed construction uses a quadratic-size circuit consists of elementary 2-qubit controlled-rotation gates around the x axis and uses no ancilla qubit. Circuit depth remains linear in quantum technologies with finite-distance interactions between qubits. The suggested construction is related to the long-standing construction by Barenco et al. (Phys. Rev. A, 52: 3457-3467, 1995, arXiv:quant-ph/9503016), which uses a quadratic-size, quadratic-depth quantum circuit for an $n$-qubit Toffoli gate.

id: 1303.3582
title: A strain tensor that couples to the Madelung stress tensor
authors: D. H. Delphenich
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3582
abstract: Ordinarily, the stress tensor that one derives for a Madelung fluid is not regarded as being coupled to a strain tensor, which is consistent with the fluid hypothesis. However, based upon earlier work regarding the geometric nature of the quantum potential, one can, in fact, define a strain tensor, which is not, however, due to a deformation of a spatial region, but to a deformation of a frame field on that region. When one expresses the Madelung stress tensor as a function of the strain tensor and its derivatives, one then defines a constitutive law for the Madelung medium that might lead to a more detailed picture of its elementary structure. It is pointed out that the resulting constitutive law is strongly analogous to laws that were presented by Kelvin and Tait for the bending and torsion of elastic wires and plates, as well as the Einstein equations for gravitation if one takes the viewpoint of metric elasticity.

id: 1303.3625
title: Quantum Logic Dequantization: Information Loss
authors: Maksym Teslyk, Olena Teslyk
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3625
abstract: An attempt to ascertain reasons of the quantum logic efficiency was made. To do this, we reduce the complete set of elementary quantum logic operations to the classical one via taking the semi-classical limit (dequantization). We estimate the amount of information loss for any element of the set and obtain general expression for the loss estimation of any quantum algorithm under dequantization. We demonstrate the technique on quantum discrete fast Fourier transform and Grover search algorithms.

id: 1303.3637
title: An investigation of the transfer dynamics of quantum teleportation by weak measurement statistics
authors: Masanori Hiroishi, Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 14 pages, including 3 figures, clarification of the relation between weak measurement results and transient states. Final version for publication in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 245302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3637
abstract: We explore the mechanism of quantum teleportation by analyzing the weak measurement statistics post-selected by the result of the Bell measurement for the joint system composed of the input A and the spatially separated output B. It is shown that the weak measurement statistics observed before the Bell measurement includes correlations which relate every physical property in the input A to a corresponding physical property in the output B. The Bell measurement thus identifies the accidental relation between A and B already present in the quantum fluctuations of the input state. Significantly, this relation applies to all physical properties equally, and is completely independent of the input state. Teleportation therefore copies all physical properties of input system A to output system B, irrespective of whether the input state is an eigenstate of the property or not.

id: 1303.3647
title: Compatibility for Probabilistic Theories
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3647
abstract: We define an index of compatibility for a probabilistic theory (PT). Quantum mechanics with index 0 and classical probability theory with index 1 are at the two extremes. In this way, quantum mechanics is at least as incompatible as any PT. We consider a PT called a concrete quantum logic that may have compatibility index strictly between 0 and 1, but we have not been able to show this yet. Finally, we show that observables in a PT can be represented by positive, vector-valued measures.

id: 1303.3657
title: Dynamic dissipative cooling of a mechanical oscillator in strong-coupling optomechanics
authors: Yong-Chun Liu, Yun-Feng Xiao, Xingsheng Luan, Chee Wei Wong
comments: accepetd in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 153606 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3657
abstract: Cooling of mesoscopic mechanical resonators represents a primary concern in cavity optomechanics. Here in the strong optomechanical coupling regime, we propose to dynamically control the cavity dissipation, which is able to significantly accelerate the cooling process while strongly suppressing the heating noise. Furthermore, the dynamic control is capable of overcoming quantum backaction and reducing the cooling limit by several orders of magnitude. The dynamic dissipation control provides new insights for tailoring the optomechanical interaction and offers the prospect of exploring macroscopic quantum physics.

id: 1303.3669
title: The Scattering amplitude for one parameter family of shape invariant potentials related to Xm Jacobi polynomials
authors: Rajesh Kumar Yadav, Avinash Khare, Bhabani Prasad Mandala
comments: 8 Pages, No Figures
journal: Physics Letter B 723, 433-435 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3669
abstract: We consider the recently discovered, one parameter family of exactly solvable shape invariant potentials which are isospectral to the generalized P\"oschl-Teller potential. By explicitly considering the asymptotic behaviour of the Xm Jacobi polynomials associated with this system (m = 1, 2, 3, ...), the scattering amplitude for the one parameter family of potentials is calculated explicitly.

id: 1303.3682
title: Phase space formalism for quantum estimation of Gaussian states
authors: Alex Monras
comments: 7 pages. 2 Appendices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3682
abstract: We formulate, with full generality, the asymptotic estimation theory for Gaussian states in terms of their first and second moments. By expressing the quantum Fisher information (QFI) and the elusive symmetric logarithmic derivative (SLD) in terms of the state's moments (and their derivatives) we are able to obtain the noncommutative extension of the well known expression for the Fisher information of a Gaussian probability distribution. Focusing on models with fixed first moments and identical Williamson 'diagonal' states --which include pure state models--, we obtain their SLD and QFI, and elucidate what features of the Wigner function are fundamentally accessible, and at what rates. In addition, we find the optimal homodyne detection scheme for all such models, and show that for pure state models they attain the fundamental limit.

id: 1303.3687
title: Quantum Routing of Single Photons with Cyclic Three-Level System
authors: Lan Zhou, Li-Ping Yang, Yong Li, C.P. Sun
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 103604 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3687
abstract: We propose an experimentally accessible single-photon routing scheme using a $\bigtriangleup$-type three-level atom embedded in quantum multi-channels composed of coupled-resonator waveguides. Via the on-demand classical field applied to the atom, the router can extract a single photon from the incident channel, and then redirect it into another. The efficient functions of perfect reflection of single photon signal in the incident channel is rooted in the coherent resonance and the existence of photonic bound states.

id: 1303.3712
title: Entanglement Classification of extended Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-Symmetric States
authors: Eylee Jung, DaeKil Park
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. Vol. 14 (2014) 0937-0948
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3712
abstract: In this paper we analyze entanglement classification of extended Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-symmetric states $\rho^{ES}$, which is parametrized by four real parameters $x$, $y_1$, $y_2$ and $y_3$. The condition for separable states of $\rho^{ES}$ is analytically derived. The higher classes such as bi-separable, W, and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger classes are roughly classified by making use of the class-specific optimal witnesses or map from the extended Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger symmetry to the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger symmetry. From this analysis we guess that the entanglement classes of $\rho^{ES}$ are not dependent on $y_j \hspace{.2cm} (j=1,2,3)$ individually, but dependent on $y_1 + y_2 + y_3$ collectively. The difficulty arising in extension of analysis with Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger symmetry to the higher-qubit system is discussed.

id: 1303.3757
title: Generating efficient quantum circuits for preparing maximally multipartite entangled states
authors: Przemys?aw Sadowski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3757
abstract: In this work we provide a method for generating quantum circuits preparing maximally multipartite entangled states using genetic programming. The presented method is faster that known realisations thanks to the applied fitness function and several modifications to the genetic programming schema. Moreover, we enrich the described method by the unique possibility to define an arbitrary structure of a system. We use the developed method to find new quantum circuits, which are simpler from known results. We also analyse the efficiency of generating entanglement in the spin chain system and in the system of complete connections.

id: 1303.3768
title: Entanglement Amplification in the Non-Perturbative Dynamics of Modular Quantum Systems
authors: Abolfazl Bayat, Salvatore M. Giampaolo, Fabrizio Illuminati, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022319 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3768
abstract: We analyze the conditions for entanglement amplification between distant and not directly interacting quantum objects by their common coupling to media with static modular structure and subject to a local (single-bond) quenched dynamics. We show that in the non-perturbative regime of the dynamics the initial end-to-end entanglement is strongly amplified and, moreover, can be distributed efficiently between distant objects. Due to its intrinsic local and non-perturbative nature the dynamics is fast and robust against thermal fluctuations, and its control is undemanding. We show that the origin of entanglement amplification lies in the interference of the ground state and at most one of the low-lying energy eigenstates. The scheme can be generalized to provide a fast and efficient router for generating entanglement between simultaneous multiple users.

id: 1303.3771
title: System identification for passive linear quantum systems
authors: Madalin Guta, Naoki Yamamoto
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3771
abstract: System identification is a key enabling component for the implementation of quantum technologies, including quantum control. In this paper, we consider the class of passive linear input-output systems, and investigate several basic questions: (1) which parameters can be identified? (2) Given sufficient input-output data, how do we reconstruct system parameters? (3) How can we optimize the estimation precision by preparing appropriate input states and performing measurements on the output? We show that minimal systems can be identified up to a unitary transformation on the modes, and systems satisfying a Hamiltonian connectivity condition called "infecting" are completely identifiable. We propose a frequency domain design based on a Fisher information criterion, for optimizing the estimation precision for coherent input state. As a consequence of the unitarity of the transfer function, we show that the Heisenberg limit with respect to the input energy can be achieved using non-classical input states.

id: 1303.3798
title: Simple Manipulation of a Microwave Dressed-State Ion Qubit
authors: S. C. Webster, S. Weidt, K. Lake, J. J. McLoughlin, W. K. Hensinger
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 140501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3798
abstract: Many schemes for implementing quantum information processing require that the atomic states used have a non-zero magnetic moment, however such magnetically sensitive states of an atom are vulnerable to decoherence due to fluctuating magnetic fields. Dressing an atom with an external field is a powerful method of reducing such decoherence [N. Timoney et al., Nature 476, 185], even if the states being dressed are strongly coupled to the environment. We introduce an experimentally simpler method of manipulating such a dressed-state qubit, which allows the implementation of general rotations of the qubit, and demonstrate this method using a trapped ytterbium ion.

id: 1303.3819
title: Stabilizing a Bell state of two superconducting qubits by dissipation engineering
authors: Z. Leghtas, U. Vool, S. Shankar, M. Hatridge, S.M. Girvin, M.H. Devoret, M. Mirrahimi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023849 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3819
abstract: We propose a dissipation engineering scheme that prepares and protects a maximally entangled state of a pair of superconducting qubits. This is done by off-resonantly coupling the two qubits to a low-Q cavity mode playing the role of a dissipative reservoir. We engineer this coupling by applying six continuous-wave microwave drives with appropriate frequencies. The two qubits need not be identical. We show that our approach does not require any fine-tuning of the parameters and requires only that certain ratios between them be large. With currently achievable coherence times, simulations indicate that a Bell state can be maintained over arbitrary long times with fidelities above 94%. Such performance leads to a significant violation of Bell's inequality (CHSH correlation larger than 2.6) for arbitrary long times.

id: 1303.3821
title: Tuning interaction strength leads to ergodic-nonergodic transition of quantum correlations in anisotropic Heisenberg spin model
authors: Utkarsh Mishra, R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX4-1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052318 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3821
abstract: We investigate the time dynamics of quantum correlations of the anisotropic Heisenberg model in a time-dependent magnetic field, in one-dimensional, ladder, and two-dimensional lattices. We find that quantum correlation measures in the entanglement-separability paradigm are ergodic in these systems irrespective of system parameters. However, information-theoretic quantum correlation measures can also be nonergodic, and exhibit a transition from nonergodic to ergodic behavior with the change of interaction strength in the direction of the magnetic field. We also observe that the transition point changes drastically as we go from one-dimensional and ladder lattices to the two-dimensional one.

id: 1303.3832
title: Cavity-QED of a leaky planar resonator coupled to an atom and an input single-photon pulse
authors: Denis Gonta, Peter van Loock
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures, revised version accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033853 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3832
abstract: In contrast to the free-space evolution of an atom governed by a multi-mode interaction with the surrounding electromagnetic vacuum, the evolution of a cavity-QED system can be characterized by just three parameters, (i) atom-cavity coupling strength g, (ii) cavity relaxation rate \kappa, and (iii) atomic decay rate into the non-cavity modes \gamma. In the case of an atom inserted into a planar resonator with an input beam coupled from the outside, it has been shown by Koshino [Phys. Rev. A 73, 053814 (2006)] that these three parameters are determined not only by the atom and cavity characteristics, but also by the spatial distribution of the input pulse. By an ab-initio treatment, we generalize the framework of Koshino and determine the cavity-QED parameters of a coupled system of atom, planar (leaky) resonator, and input single-photon pulse as functions of the lateral profile of the pulse and the length of resonator. We confirm that the atomic decay rate can be suppressed by tailoring appropriately the lateral profile of the pulse. Such an active suppression of atomic decay opens an attractive route towards an efficient quantum memory for long-term storage of an atomic qubit inside a planar resonator.

id: 1303.3837
title: Tests against noncontextual models with measurement disturbances
authors: Jochen Szangolies, Matthias Kleinmann, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; updated to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 050101(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3837
abstract: The testability of the Kochen-Specker theorem is a subject of ongoing controversy. A central issue is that experimental implementations relying on sequential measurements cannot achieve perfect compatibility between the measurements and that therefore the notion of noncontextuality is not well defined. We demonstrate by an explicit model that such compatibility violations may yield a violation of noncontextuality inequalities, even if we assume that the incompatibilities merely originate from context-independent noise. We show, however, that this problem can be circumvented by combining the ideas behind Leggett-Garg inequalities with those of the Kochen-Specker theorem.

id: 1303.3848
title: Semiclassical wavefunctions for open quantum billiards
authors: Fabian Lackner, Iva Brezinova, Florian Libisch, Joachim Burgd?rfer
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 022916 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3848
abstract: We present a semiclassical approximation to the scattering wavefunction $\Psi(\mathbf{r},k)$ for an open quantum billiard which is based on the reconstruction of the Feynman path integral. We demonstrate its remarkable numerical accuracy for the open rectangular billiard and show that the convergence of the semiclassical wavefunction to the full quantum state is controlled by the path length or equivalently the dwell time. Possible applications include leaky billiards and systems with decoherence present.

id: 1303.3861
title: Generation of quantum entanglement between three level atoms via $n$ coupled cavities
authors: R. Sufiani, A. Darkhosh
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3861
abstract: Based on two-photon exchange interaction between $n$ coupled optical cavities each of them containing a single three level atom, the $n$-qubit and $n$-photonic state transfer is investigated. In fact, following the approach of Ref.\cite{Alex1}, we consider $n$ coupled cavities instead of two cavities and generalize the discussions about quantum state transfer, photon transition between cavities and entanglement generations between $n$ atoms. More clearly, by employing the consistency of number of photons (the symmetry of Hamiltonian), the hamiltonian of the system is reduced from $3^n$ dimensional space into 2n dimensional one. Moreover, by introducing suitable basis for the atom-cavity state space based on Fourier transform, the reduced Hamiltonian is block-diagonalized, with 2 dimensional blocks. Then, the initial state of the system is evolved under the corresponding Hamiltonian and the suitable times $T$ at which the initially unentangled atoms, become maximally entangled, are determined in terms of the hopping strength $\xi$ between cavities.

id: 1303.3862
title: What is the relativistic spin operator?
authors: Heiko Bauke, Sven Ahrens, Christoph H. Keitel, Rainer Grobe
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics, vol. 16, article 043012 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3862
abstract: Although the spin is regarded as a fundamental property of the electron, there is no universally accepted spin operator within the framework of relativistic quantum mechanics. We investigate the properties of different proposals for a relativistic spin perator. It is shown that most candidates are lacking essential features of proper angular momentum operators, leading to spurious Zitterbewegung (quivering motion) or violating the angular momentum algebra. Only the Foldy-Wouthuysen operator and the Pryce operator qualify as proper relativistic spin operators. We demonstrate that ground states of highly charged hydrogen-like ions can be utilized to identify a legitimate relativistic spin operator experimentally.

id: 1303.3891
title: Quantum Google in a Complex Network
authors: G.D. Paparo, M. Mueller, F. Comellas, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: 
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 2773; (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3891
abstract: We investigate the behavior of the recently proposed quantum Google algorithm, or quantum PageRank, in large complex networks. Applying the quantum algorithm to a part of the real World Wide Web, we find that the algorithm is able to univocally reveal the underlying scale-free topology of the network and to clearly identify and order the most relevant nodes (hubs) of the graph according to their importance in the network structure. Moreover, our results show that the quantum PageRank algorithm generically leads to changes in the hierarchy of nodes. In addition, as compared to its classical counterpart, the quantum algorithm is capable to clearly highlight the structure of secondary hubs of the network, and to partially resolve the degeneracy in importance of the low lying part of the list of rankings, which represents a typical shortcoming of the classical PageRank algorithm. Complementary to this study, our analysis shows that the algorithm is able to clearly distinguish scale-free networks from other widespread and important classes of complex networks, such as Erd\H{o}s-R\'enyi networks and hierarchical graphs. We show that the ranking capabilities of the quantum PageRank algorithm are related to an increased stability with respect to a variation of the damping parameter $\alpha$ that appears in the Google algorithm, and to a more clearly pronounced power-law behavior in the distribution of importance among the nodes, as compared to the classical algorithm. Finally, we study to which extent the increased sensitivity of the quantum algorithm persists under coordinated attacks of the most important nodes in scale-free and Erd\H{o}s-R\'enyi random graphs.

id: 1303.3906
title: Toward real-time quantum imaging with a single pixel camera
authors: B.J. Lawrie, R.C. Pooser
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 6, pp. 7549-7559 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3906
abstract: We present a workbench for the study of real-time quantum imaging by measuring the frame-by-frame quantum noise reduction of multi-spatial-mode twin beams generated by four wave mixing in Rb vapor. Exploiting the multiple spatial modes of this squeezed light source, we utilize spatial light modulators to selectively pass macropixels of quantum correlated modes from each of the twin beams to a high quantum efficiency balanced detector. In low-light-level imaging applications, the ability to measure the quantum correlations between individual spatial modes and macropixels of spatial modes with a single pixel camera will facilitate compressive quantum imaging with sensitivity below the photon shot noise limit.

id: 1303.3935
title: Quantum mechanics from invariance laws
authors: Florin Moldoveanu
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, prepared for DICE 2014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3935
abstract: Quantum mechanics is an extremely successful theory of nature and yet it has resisted all attempts to date to have an intuitive axiomatization. In contrast, special theory of relativity is well understood and is rooted into natural or experimentally justified postulates. Here we show an axiomatization approach to quantum mechanics which is very similar with how special theory of relativity can be derived. The core idea is that of composing two systems and the fact that the composed system should have an invariant description in terms of dynamics. This leads to a Lie-Jordan algebraic formulation of quantum mechanics which can be converted into the usual Hilbert space formalism by the standard GNS construction. The starting assumptions are minimal: the existence of time and that of a configuration space which supports a tensor product as a way to compose two physical systems into a larger one.

id: 1303.3986
title: Super quantum probabilities and three-slit experiments -- Wright's pentagon state and the Popescu-Rohrlich box require third-order interference
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. T160 (2014) 014034 (4pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3986
abstract: Quantum probabilities differ from classical ones in many ways, e.g., by violating the well-known Bell and CHSH inequalities or another simple inequality due to R. Wright. The latter one has recently regained attention because of its equivalence to a novel noncontextual inequality by Klyachko et al. On the other hand, quantum probabilities still obey many limitations which need not hold any more in more general probabilistic theories (super quantum probabilities). Wright, Popescu and Rohrlich identified states which are included in such theories, but impossible in quantum mechanics, and they showed this using its Hilbert space formalism. Recently, Fritz et al. and Cabello detected that the impossibility of these states can be derived from very general principles (local orthogonality and global exclusive disjunction, respectively) without using Hilbert space techniques. In the paper, an alternative derivation from rather different phyisical principles will be presented. These are a reasonable calculus of conditional probability (i.e., a model for the quantum measurement process) and the absence of third-order interference. The concept of third-order interference was introduced by Sorkin who also recognized its impossibility in quantum mechanics.

id: 1303.4008
title: Enhancing the W State Quantum Network Fusion Process with A Single Fredkin Gate
authors: Sinan Bugu, Can Yesilyurt, Fatih Ozaydin
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A. 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 87, 032331, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4008
abstract: Integrating a single Fredkin (controlled swap) gate to the previously introduced W state fusion mechanism (Ozdemir et al, N. J. Phys. 13, 103003, 2011) and using an ancillary photon, we increase the size of the fused W states and essentially, we improve the success probability of the fusion process in a promising way for a possible deterministic W state fusion mechanism. Besides fusing arbitrary size W states, our setup can also fuse Bell states to create W states with a success probability 3/4 which is much higher than the previous works. Therefore using only this setup, it is now possible to start with Bell pairs to create and expand arbitrary size W states. Since higher probability of success implies a lower cost of resource in terms of the number of the states spent to achieve a target size, our setup gives rise to more cost-efficient scenarios.

id: 1303.4011
title: Heuristic Classification of Physical Theories based on Quantum Correlations
authors: M. Ferrero, J.L. S¨¢nchez-G¨®mez
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4011
abstract: Taking quantum formalism as a point of reference and connection, we explore the various possibilities that arise in the construction of physical theories. Analyzing the distinct physical phenomena that each of them may describe, we introduce the different types of hidden variables theories that correspond to these physical phenomena. A hierarchical classification of the offered theories, based on the degree of correlation between dichotomic observables in bipartite systems, as quantified by a Bell type inequality, is finally proposed.

id: 1303.4026
title: Relative performance of ancilla verification and decoding in the [[7,1,3]] Steane code
authors: Ali Abu-Nada, Ben Fortescue, Mark Byrd
comments: 9 pages, 12 figures. v6: fixed metadata typo (paper unchanged). Earlier revisions revised graphs and simulation data, fixed typos, added additional analysis and citations
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062304 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4026
abstract: Ancilla post-selection is a common means of achieving fault-tolerance in quantum error-correction. However, it can lead to additional data errors due to movement or wait operations. Alternatives to post-selection may achieve lower overall failure rates due to avoiding such errors. We present numerical simulation results comparing the logical error rates for the fault-tolerant [[7,1,3]] Steane code using techniques of ancilla verification vs. the newer method of ancilla decoding, as described in [D.P. DiVincenzo and P. Aliferis, PRL 98, 020501 (2007)]. We simulate QEC procedures in which rhe possibility of ancilla verification failures requires the creation and storage of additional ancillas and/or additional waiting of the data until a new ancilla can be created. We find that the decoding method, which avoids verification failures, is advantageous in terms of overall error rate in various cases, even when measurement operations are no slower than others. We analyze the effect of different classes of physical error on the relative performance of these two methods.

id: 1303.4058
title: On-demand semiconductor single-photon source with near-unity indistinguishability
authors: Yu-Ming He, Yu He, Yu-Jia Wei, Dian Wu, Mete Atat¨¹re, Christian Schneider, Sven H?fling, Martin Kamp, Chao-Yang Lu, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures
journal: Nature Nanotechnology 8, 213 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4058
abstract: Single photon sources based on semiconductor quantum dots offer distinct advantages for quantum information, including a scalable solid-state platform, ultrabrightness, and interconnectivity with matter qubits. A key prerequisite for their use in optical quantum computing and solid-state networks is a high level of efficiency and indistinguishability. Pulsed resonance fluorescence (RF) has been anticipated as the optimum condition for the deterministic generation of high-quality photons with vanishing effects of dephasing. Here, we generate pulsed RF single photons on demand from a single, microcavity-embedded quantum dot under s-shell excitation with 3-ps laser pulses. The pi-pulse excited RF photons have less than 0.3% background contributions and a vanishing two-photon emission probability. Non-postselective Hong-Ou-Mandel interference between two successively emitted photons is observed with a visibility of 0.97(2), comparable to trapped atoms and ions. Two single photons are further used to implement a high-fidelity quantum controlled-NOT gate.

id: 1303.4071
title: Improved superconducting qubit coherence using titanium nitride
authors: J. Chang, M. R. Vissers, A. D. Corcoles, M. Sandberg, J. Gao, David W. Abraham, Jerry M. Chow, Jay M. Gambetta, M. B. Rothwell, G. A. Keefe, Matthias Steffen, D. P. Pappas
comments: 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 012602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4071
abstract: We demonstrate enhanced relaxation and dephasing times of transmon qubits, up to ~ 60 \mu s by fabricating the interdigitated shunting capacitors using titanium nitride (TiN). Compared to lift-off aluminum deposited simultaneously with the Josephson junction, this represents as much as a six-fold improvement and provides evidence that previous planar transmon coherence times are limited by surface losses from two-level system (TLS) defects residing at or near interfaces. Concurrently, we observe an anomalous temperature dependent frequency shift of TiN resonators which is inconsistent with the predicted TLS model.

id: 1303.4077
title: Consensus for Quantum Networks: From Symmetry to Gossip Iterations
authors: Luca Mazzarella, Alain Sarlette, Francesco Ticozzi
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 60(1), 158 - 172, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4077
abstract: This paper extends the consensus framework, widely studied in the literature on distributed computing and control algorithms, to networks of quantum systems. We define consensus situations on the basis of invariance and symmetry properties, finding four different probabilistic generalizations of classical consensus states. We then extend the gossip consensus algorithm to the quantum setting and prove its convergence properties, showing how it converges to symmetric states while preserving the expectation of permutation-invariant global observables.

id: 1303.4100
title: On the ladder operators and nonclassicality of generalized coherent state associated with a particle in an infinite square well
authors: H R Jalali, M K Tavassoly
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures, Published in Optics Communications 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4100
abstract: In this paper the factorization method is used in order to obtain the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of a quantum particle confined in a one-dimensional infinite well. The output results from the mentioned approach allows us to explore an appropriate new pair of raising and lowering operators corresponding to the physical system under consideration. From the symmetrical considerations, the connection between the obtained ladder operators with $su(1,1)$ Lie algebra is explicitly established. Next, after the construction of Barut-Girardello and Gilmore-Perelomov representations of coherent states associated with the considered system, some of their important properties like the resolution of the identity including a few nonclassical features are illustrated in detail. Finally, a theoretical scheme for generation of the Gilmore-Perelomov type of coherent state via a generalized Janes-Cummings model is proposed.

id: 1303.4105
title: Barut-Girardello and Gilmore-Perelomov coherent states for pseudoharmonic oscillator and their nonclassical properties: factorization method
authors: M K Tavassoly, H R Jalali
comments: 15 pages, 3 Figures, accepted for publications in Chinees Phys. B. 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4105
abstract: In this paper we try to introduce the ladder operators associated with the pseudoharmonic oscillator, after solving the corresponding Schr\"{o}dinger equation by using the factorization method. The obtained generalized raising and lowering operators naturally lead us to the Dirac representation space of the system which is very easier to work with, in comparison to the functional Hilbert space. The SU(1,1) dynamical symmetry group associated with the considered system is exactly established through investigating the fact that the deduced operators satisfy appropriate commutation relations. This result enables us to construct two important and distinct classes of Barut-Girardello and Gilmore-Perelomov coherent states associated with the system. Finally, their identities as the most important task are exactly resolved and some of their nonclassical properties are illustrated, numerically.

id: 1303.4106
title: Entanglement dynamics and position-momentum entropic uncertainty relation of a $¦«$-type three-level atom interacting with a two-mode cavity field in the presence of nonlinearities
authors: M J Faghihi, M K Tavassoly, M R Hooshmandasl
comments: 14 pages, accepted for publication in JOSAB 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4106
abstract: In this paper, the interaction between a $\Lambda$-type three-level atom and two-mode cavity field is discussed. The detuning parameters and cross-Kerr nonlinearity are taken into account and it is assumed that atom-field coupling and Kerr medium to be $f$-deformed. Even though the system seems to be complicated, the analytical form of the state vector of the entire system for considered model is exactly obtained. The time evolution of nonclassical properties such as quantum entanglement and position-momentum entropic uncertainty relation (entropy squeezing) of the field are investigated. In each case, the influences of the detuning parameters, generalized Kerr medium and intensity-dependent coupling on the latter nonclassicality signs are analyzed, in detail.

id: 1303.4127
title: Quantum Search on the Spatial Grid
authors: Matthew Falk
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4127
abstract: This paper explores Quantum Search on the two dimensional spatial grid. Recent exploration into the topic has devised a solution that runs in O(sqrt(n*ln(n))). This paper explores a new algorithm that gives promise for the O(sqrt(n)) result that is the lower bound off of the grid.

id: 1303.4162
title: Single point potentials with total resonant tunneling
authors: A.V. Zolotaryuk
comments: 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4162
abstract: Two rectangular models described by the one-dimensional Schroedinger equation with sharply localized potentials are suggested. The potentials have a multi-layer thin structure being composed from adjacent barriers and wells. Their peculiar tunneling properties are studied in considerable detail. Particularly, in the zero-range limit when the potentials are squeezed to a single point, sharp peaks with total transmission are observed at certain (positive and negative) quantized values of the potential strength constant forming infinite discrete sets. Beyond these sets, the barrier-well structures behave as a perfectly reflecting wall. The transcendental equations with respect to potential strengths, the solutions of which determine transmission (resonance) sets, are derived. In this regard, both the models are exactly solvable. The energy dependence of an incident particle is shown to reveal a resonance behavior, being completely different from that observed in a typical double barrier structure.

id: 1303.4180
title: Diffusion Effects in Gradient Echo Memory
authors: X.-W. Luo, J. J. Hope, B. Hillman, T. M. Stace
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062328 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4180
abstract: We study the effects of diffusion on a $\Lambda$-gradient echo memory, which is a coherent optical quantum memory using thermal gases. The efficiency of this memory is high for short storage time, but decreases exponentially due to decoherence as the storage time is increased. We study the effects of both longitudinal and transverse diffusion in this memory system, and give both analytical and numerical results that are in good agreement. Our results show that diffusion has a significant effect on the efficiency. Further, we suggest ways to reduce these effects to improve storage efficiency.

id: 1303.4188
title: Back action cancellation in resolved sideband regime
authors: Alena A. Demchenko, Sergey P. Vyatchanin
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4188
abstract: We consider the simple model of measurement of mechanical oscillator position via Fabry-Pero cavity pumped by detuned laser (end mirror of cavity is mass of oscillator) in resolved sideband regime when laser is detuned from cavity's frequency by frequency of mechanical oscillator $\pm\omega_m$ and relaxation rate $\gamma$ of cavity is small: $\gamma\ll \omega_m$. We demonstrate fluctuation back action cancellation in reflected wave. However, it does not allow to circumvent Standard Quantum Limit, the reason of it is the dynamic back action.

id: 1303.4230
title: The Aharonov--Bohm effect in scattering theory
authors: Yu. A. Sitenko, N. D. Vlasii
comments: 26 pages, 1 figure; minor stylistic changes, journal version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4230
abstract: The Aharonov--Bohm effect is considered as a scattering event with nonrelativistic charged particles of the wavelength which is less than the transverse size of an impenetrable magnetic vortex. The quasiclassical WKB method is shown to be efficient in solving this scattering problem. We find that the scattering cross section consists of two terms, one describing the classical phenomenon of elastic reflection and another one describing the quantum phenomenon of diffraction; the Aharonov--Bohm effect is manifested as a fringe shift in the diffraction pattern. Both the classical and the quantum phenomena are independent of the choice of a boundary condition at the vortex edge, providing that probability is conserved. We show that a propagation of charged particles can be controlled by altering the flux of a magnetic vortex placed on their way.

id: 1303.4284
title: On the uniqueness of the equation for state-vector collapse
authors: A. Bassi, D. Duerr, G. Hinrichs
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX. Major changes performed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 210401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4284
abstract: The linearity of quantum mechanics leads, under the assumption that the wave function offers a complete description of reality, to grotesque situations famously known as Schroedinger's cat. Ways out are either adding elements of reality or replacing the linear evolution by a nonlinear one. Models of spontaneous wave function collapses took the latter path. The way such models are constructed leaves the question, whether such models are in some sense unique, i.e. whether the nonlinear equations replacing Schroedinger's equation, are uniquely determined as collapse equations. Various people worked on identifying the class of nonlinear modifications of the Schroedinger equation, compatible with general physical requirements. Here we identify the most general class of continuous wavefunction evolutions under the assumption of no-faster-than-light signalling.

id: 1303.4291
title: Non-Fault Tolerant T-Gates for the [7,1,3] Quantum Error Correction Code
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, 3 tables, 4 sections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032320 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4291
abstract: We simulate the implementation of a T-gate, or $\frac{\pi}{8}$-gate, for a [7,1,3] encoded logical qubit in a non-equiprobable error environment. We demonstrate that the use of certain non-fault tolerant methods in the implementation may nevertheless enable reliable quantum computation while reducing basic resource consumption. Reliability is determined by calculating gate fidelities for the one-qubit logical gate. Specifically, we show that despite using a non-fault tolerant procedures in constructing a logical zero ancilla to implement the T-gate the gate fidelity of the logical gate, after perfect error correction, has no first order error terms. Meaning, any errors that may have occurred during implementation are `correctable' and fault tolerance may still be achieved.

id: 1303.4304
title: Experimental realisation of quantum illumination
authors: E. D. Lopaeva, I. Ruo Berchera, I. P. Degiovanni, S. Olivares, G. Brida, M. Genovese
comments: PRL in press
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 153603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4304
abstract: We present the first experimental realisation of the quantum illumination protocol proposed in Ref.s [S. Lloyd, Science 321, 1463 (2008); S. Tan et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 253601 (2008)], achieved in a simple feasible experimental scheme based on photon-number correlations. A main achievement of our result is the demonstration of a strong robustness of the quantum protocol to noise and losses, that challenges some widespread wisdom about quantum technologies.

id: 1303.4318
title: Spin squeezing, entanglement and coherence in two driven, dissipative, nonlinear cavities coupled with single and two-photon exchange
authors: Ali ?. C. Hardal, ?zg¨¹r E. M¨¹stecapl?oglu
comments: Improved version; new figures and discussions
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 31, 1402-1409 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4318
abstract: We investigate spin squeezing, quantum entanglement and second order coherence in two coupled, driven, dissipative, nonlinear cavities. We compare these quantum statistical properties for the cavities coupled with either single or two-photon exchange. Solving the quantum optical master equation of the system numerically in the steady state, we calculate the zero-time delay second-order correlation function for the coherence, genuine two-mode entanglement parameter, and an optimal spin squeezing inequality associated with particle entanglement. We identify regimes of distinct quantum statistical character depending on the relative strength of photon-exchange and nonlinearity. Moreover, we examine the effects of weak and strong drives on these quantum statistical regimes.

id: 1303.4331
title: Non-Hermitian star-shaped quantum graphs
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 13 pp, 3 figures, text of talk presented during the AAMP 10 conference during June 4 - 7, 2012, in Villa Lanna in Prague, see this http URL
journal: Acta Polytechnica 53 (2013) 317 - 321
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4331
abstract: A compact review is given, and a few new numerical results are added to the recent studies of the q-pointed one-dimensional star-shaped quantum graphs. These graphs are assumed endowed with certain specific, manifestly non-Hermitian point interactions, localized either in the inner vertex or in all of the outer vertices and carrying, in the latter case, an interesting zero-inflow interpretation.

id: 1303.4356
title: Mutual information in interacting spin systems
authors: Johannes Wilms
comments: Doctoral thesis, University of Vienna
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4356
abstract: This thesis uses a quantity that is defined and justified by information theory -- mutual information -- to examine models of condensed matter systems. More precisely, it studies models which are made up out of ferromagnetically interacting spins. Quantum information theory often focuses on the ground state of such systems; we will however be interested in what happens at finite temperature. Using mutual information, which can be seen as a generalization of entanglement entropy to the finite-temperature case, we can study the different phases occurring in these models, and in particular the phase transitions between those. We examine broadly two different classes of models: classical spins on two-dimensional lattices, and fully-connected models of quantum-mechanical spin-1/2 particles. (Abstract abridged.)

id: 1303.4357
title: Quantum Correlations are Tightly Bound by the Exclusivity Principle
authors: Bin Yan
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 260406 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4357
abstract: It is a fundamental problem in physics of what principle limits the correlations as predicted by our current description of nature, based on quantum mechanics. One possible explanation is the "global exclusivity" principle recently discussed in Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 060402 (2013). In this work we show that this principle actually has a much stronger restriction on the probability distribution. We provide a tight constraint inequality imposed by this principle and prove that this principle singles out quantum correlations in scenarios represented by any graph. Our result implies that the exclusivity principle might be one of the fundamental principles of nature.

id: 1303.4367
title: Wigner rotations and an apparent paradox in relativistic quantum information
authors: Pablo L. Saldanha, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4367
abstract: It is shown that a general model for particle detection in combination with a linear application of the Wigner rotations, which correspond to momentum-dependent changes of the particle spin under Lorentz transformations, to the state of a massive relativistic particle in a superposition of two counter-propagating momentum states leads to a paradox. The paradox entails the instantaneous transmission of information between two spatially separated parties. A solution to the paradox is given when the physical construction of the corresponding state is taken into account, suggesting that we cannot in general linearly apply the Wigner rotations to a quantum state without considering the appropriate physical interpretation.

id: 1303.4379
title: Flux-controlled quantum computation with Majorana fermions
authors: T. Hyart, B. van Heck, I. C. Fulga, M. Burrello, A. R. Akhmerov, C. W. J. Beenakker
comments: Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 035121 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4379
abstract: Majorana fermions hold promise for quantum computation, because their non-Abelian braiding statistics allows for topologically protected operations on quantum information. Topological qubits can be constructed from pairs of well-separated Majoranas in networks of nanowires. The coupling to a superconducting charge qubit in a transmission line resonator (transmon) permits braiding of Majoranas by external variation of magnetic fluxes. We show that readout operations can also be fully flux-controlled, without requiring microscopic control over tunnel couplings. We identify the minimal circuit that can perform the initialization--braiding--measurement steps required to demonstrate non-Abelian statistics. We introduce the Random Access Majorana Memory, a scalable circuit that can perform a joint parity measurement on Majoranas belonging to a selection of topological qubits. Such multi-qubit measurements allow for the efficient creation of highly entangled states and simplify quantum error correction protocols by avoiding the need for ancilla qubits.

id: 1303.4455
title: Topological Entanglement Entropy with a Twist
authors: Benjamin J. Brown, Stephen D. Bartlett, Andrew C. Doherty, Sean D. Barrett
comments: 4+3 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome; v2 references added; v3 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 220402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4455
abstract: Defects in topologically ordered models have interesting properties that are reminiscent of the anyonic excitations of the models themselves. For example, dislocations in the toric code model are known as twists and possess properties that are analogous to Ising anyons. We strengthen this analogy by using the topological entanglement entropy as a diagnostic tool to identify properties of both defects and excitations in the toric code. Specifically, we show, through explicit calculation, that the toric code model including twists and dyon excitations has the same quantum dimensions, the same total quantum dimension, and the same fusion rules as an Ising anyon model.

id: 1303.4467
title: Uncertainty relations for MUBs and SIC-POVMs in terms of generalized entropies
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 19 pages, no figures. The version 4 includes uncertainty relations with detection inefficiencies and brief notes on entanglement detection. New references are added. Except for the style, this version matches the journal version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 67, 269 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4467
abstract: We formulate uncertainty relations for mutually unbiased bases and symmetric informationally complete measurements in terms of the R\'{e}nyi and Tsallis entropies. For arbitrary number of mutually unbiased bases in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space, we give a family of Tsallis $\alpha$-entropic bounds for $\alpha\in(0;2]$. Relations in a model of detection inefficiences are obtained. In terms of R\'{e}nyi's entropies, lower bounds are given for $\alpha\in[2;\infty)$. State-dependent and state-independent forms of such bounds are both given. Uncertainty relations in terms of the min-entropy are separately considered. We also obtain lower bounds in term of the so-called symmetrized entropies. The presented results for mutually unbiased bases are extensions of some bounds previously derived in the literature. We further formulate new properties of symmetric informationally complete measurements in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space. For a given state and any SIC-POVM, the index of coincidence of generated probability distribution is exactly calculated. Short notes are made on potential use of this result in entanglement detection. Further, we obtain state-dependent entropic uncertainty relations for a single SIC-POVM. Entropic bounds are derived in terms of the R\'{e}nyi $\alpha$-entropies for $\alpha\in[2;\infty)$ and the Tsallis $\alpha$-entropies for $\alpha\in(0;2]$. In the Tsallis formulation, a case of detection inefficiences is briefly mentioned. For a pair of symmetric informationally complete measurements, we also obtain an entropic bound of Maassen-Uffink type.

id: 1303.4574
title: Quantum theory as the most robust description of reproducible experiments
authors: H. De Raedt, M.I. Katsnelson, K. Michielsen
comments: A link to a video presentation can be found at this http URL
journal: Annals of Physics 347, 45 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4574
abstract: It is shown that the basic equations of quantum theory can be obtained from a straightforward application of logical inference to experiments for which there is uncertainty about individual events and for which the frequencies of the observed events are robust with respect to small changes in the conditions under which the experiments are carried out.

id: 1303.4634
title: Experimental distribution of entanglement via separable states
authors: A. Fedrizzi, M. Zuppardo, G. G. Gillett, M. A. Broome, M. de Almeida, M. Paternostro, A. G. White, T. Paterek
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4634
abstract: Information gain in communication is bounded by the information encoded in the physical systems exchanged between sender and receiver. Surprisingly, this does not hold for quantum entanglement, which can increase even though the communicated system carries no entanglement at all. Here we demonstrate this phenomenon in a four-photon experiment where two parties sharing initially separable (unentangled) state get entangled by exchanging a photon that is {\it at all times} not entangled with either of them. Our result validates a long-standing assert in quantum information and has important practical implications in quantum networking, where entanglement must be reliably distributed across many nodes at low resource-cost.

id: 1303.4652
title: Causal Fermions in Discrete Spacetime
authors: Terence C. Farrelly, Anthony J. Short
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4652
abstract: In this paper, we consider fermionic systems in discrete spacetime evolving with a strict notion of causality, meaning they evolve unitarily and with a bounded propagation speed. First, we show that the evolution of these systems has a natural decomposition into a product of local unitaries, which also holds if we include bosons. Next, we show that causal evolution of fermions in discrete spacetime can also be viewed as the causal evolution of a lattice of qubits, meaning these systems can be viewed as quantum cellular automata. Following this, we discuss some examples of causal fermionic models in discrete spacetime that become interesting physical systems in the continuum limit: Dirac fermions in one and three spatial dimensions, Dirac fields and briefly the Thirring model. Finally, we show that the dynamics of causal fermions in discrete spacetime can be efficiently simulated on a quantum computer.

id: 1303.4659
title: Complementarity of quantum discord and classically accessible information
authors: Michael Zwolak, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1729 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4659
abstract: The sum of the Holevo quantity (that bounds the capacity of quantum channels to transmit classical information about an observable) and the quantum discord (a measure of the quantumness of correlations of that observable) yields an observable-independent total given by the quantum mutual information. This split naturally delineates information about quantum systems accessible to observers -- information that is redundantly transmitted by the environment -- while showing that it is maximized for the quasi-classical pointer observable. Other observables are accessible only via correlations with the pointer observable. Further, we prove an anti-symmetry property relating accessible information and discord. It shows that information becomes objective -- accessible to many observers -- only as quantum information is relegated to correlations with the global environment, and, therefore, locally inaccessible. The resulting complementarity explains why, in a quantum Universe, we perceive objective classical reality while flagrantly quantum superpositions are out of reach.

id: 1303.4686
title: Entanglement Generation is Not Necessary for Optimal Work Extraction
authors: Karen V. Hovhannisyan, Mart¨ª Perarnau-Llobet, Marcus Huber, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure; published version, title changed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 240401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4686
abstract: We consider reversible work extraction from identical quantum batteries. From an ensemble of individually passive states, work can be produced only via global unitary (and thus entangling) operations. However, we show here that there always exists a method to extract all possible work without creating any entanglement, at the price of generically requiring more operations (i.e. additional time). We then study faster methods to extract work and provide a quantitative relation between the amount of generated multipartite entanglement and extractable work. Our results suggest a general relation between entanglement generation and the power of work extraction.

id: 1303.4690
title: Information Theoretic Resources in Quantum Theory
authors: Sebastian Meznaric
comments: Thesis, 109 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4690
abstract: Resource identification and quantification is an essential element of both classical and quantum information theory. Entanglement is one of these resources, arising when quantum communication and nonlocal operations are expensive to perform. In the first part of this thesis we quantify the effective entanglement when operations are additionally restricted. For an important class of errors we find a linear relationship between the usual and effective higher dimensional generalization of concurrence, a measure of entanglement. In the second chapter we focus on nonlocality in the presence of superselection rules, where we propose a scheme that may be used to activate nongenuinely multipartite nonlocality with multiple copies of the state. We show that whenever the number of particles is insufficient, the genuinely multipartite nonlocality is degraded to nongenuinely multipartite. While in the first few chapters we focus on understanding the resources present in quantum states, in the final part we turn the picture around and instead treat operations themselves as a resource. We provide our observers with free access to classical operations - ie. those that cannot detect or generate quantum coherence. We show that the operation of interest can then be used to either generate or detect quantum coherence if and only if it violates a particular commutation relation. Using the relative entropy, the commutation relation provides us with a measure of nonclassicality of operations. We show that the measure is a sum of two contributions, the generating power and the distinguishing power, each of which is separately an essential ingredient in quantum communication and information processing. The measure also sheds light on the operational meaning of quantum discord, which we show can be interpreted as the difference in superdense coding capacity between a quantum state and a classical state.

id: 1303.4713
title: A proposal to implement a quantum delayed choice experiment assisted by a cavity QED
authors: N. G. de Almeida, A. T. Avelar, W. B. Cardoso
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1208.0802 by other authors
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378, 1254 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4713
abstract: We propose a scheme feasible with current technology to implement a quantum delayed-choice experiment in the realm of cavity QED. Our scheme uses two-level atoms interacting on and off resonantly with a single mode of a high Q cavity. At the end of the protocol, the state of the cavity returns to its ground state, allowing new sequential operations. The particle and wave behavior, which are verified in a single experimental setup, are postselected after the atomic states are selectively detected.

id: 1303.4718
title: Classical and quantum-mechanical phase space distributions
authors: Thomas Kiesel
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 062114 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4718
abstract: We examine the notion of nonclassicality in terms of quasiprobability distributions. In particular, we do not only ask if a specific quasiprobability can be interpreted as a classical probability density, but require that characteristic features of classical electrodynamics are resembled. We show that the only quasiprobabilities which correctly describe the superposition principle of classical electromagnetic fields are the $s$-parameterized quasiprobabilities. Furthermore, the Glauber-Sudarshan P function is the only quantum-mechanical quasiprobability which is transformed at a classical attenuator in the same way as a classical probability distribution. This result strengthens the definition of nonclassicality in terms of the P function, in contrast to possible definitions in terms of other quasiprobabilities.

id: 1303.4724
title: Quantum Steering Ellipsoids
authors: Sania Jevtic, Matthew F. Pusey, David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: 5+9 pages, 3+8 figures. v2: Re-organisation and improved notation, new discussion of possible extensions
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 020402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4724
abstract: The quantum steering ellipsoid of a two-qubit state is the set of Bloch vectors that Bob can collapse Alice's qubit to, considering all possible measurements on his qubit. We provide an elementary construction of the ellipsoid for arbitrary states, calculate its volume, and explain how this geometric representation can be made faithful. The representation provides a range of new results, and uncovers new features, such as the existence of "incomplete steering" in separable states. We show that entanglement can be analysed in terms of three geometric features of the ellipsoid, and prove that a state is separable if and only if it obeys a "nested tetrahedron" condition.

id: 1303.4729
title: Coevents as Beables
authors: Yousef Ghazi-Tabatabai
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4729
abstract: Sorkin's coevents can be thought of as the `beables' of a quantum histories theory; in this paper we study the 'logical' implications of taking this claim at face value, constructing a propositional lattice for the space of coevents applicable to a given histories theory and comparing it to the more traditional propositional lattice of events. In particular we focus on multiplicative coevents, and find that the precise nature of their anhomomorphism leads to a particularly simple relationship between the two propositional lattices. Finally, we notice that our constructions contain elements intuitively similar to topos nations of truth values and use this to suggest a means of applying Isham's topos theoretic constructions to multiplicative coevents.

id: 1303.4744
title: Stability of local quantum dissipative systems
authors: Toby S. Cubitt, Angelo Lucia, Spyridon Michalakis, David Perez-Garcia
comments: 38 pages, 3 figures. Final version
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics: Volume 337, Issue 3 (2015), Page 1275-1315
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4744
abstract: Open quantum systems weakly coupled to the environment are modeled by completely positive, trace preserving semigroups of linear maps. The generators of such evolutions are called Lindbladians. In the setting of quantum many-body systems on a lattice it is natural to consider Lindbladians that decompose into a sum of local interactions with decreasing strength with respect to the size of their support. For both practical and theoretical reasons, it is crucial to estimate the impact that perturbations in the generating Lindbladian, arising as noise or errors, can have on the evolution. These local perturbations are potentially unbounded, but constrained to respect the underlying lattice structure. We show that even for polynomially decaying errors in the Lindbladian, local observables and correlation functions are stable if the unperturbed Lindbladian has a unique fixed point and a mixing time which scales logarithmically with the system size. The proof relies on Lieb-Robinson bounds, which describe a finite group velocity for propagation of information in local systems. As a main example, we prove that classical Glauber dynamics is stable under local perturbations, including perturbations in the transition rates which may not preserve detailed balance.

id: 1303.4802
title: Damping law of photocount distribution in a dissipative channel
authors: Hong-Yi Fan, Sen-Yue Lou, Li-Yun Hu
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4802
abstract: For a dissipative channel governed by the master equation of density operator}$d\rho /dt=\kappa \left(2a\rho a^{\dagger}-a^{\dagger}a\rho -\rho a^{\dagger}a\right) ,${\small \ we find that photocount distribution formula at time}$t,${\small \}$p\left(n,t\right) =Tr\left\{\rho \left(t\right) \mathbf{\colon}\left(\xi a^{\dagger}a\right) ^{n}e^{-\xi a^{\dagger}a}/n!\colon \right\} ,${\small \ becomes}$p\left(n,t\right) =Tr% \left[ \rho \left(0\right) \mathbf{\colon}\left(\xi e^{-2\kappa t}a^{\dagger}a\right) ^{n}e^{-\xi e^{-2\kappa t}a^{\dagger}a}/n!\colon % \right] ,${\small \ as if the quantum efficiency}$\xi ${\small \ of the detector becomes}$\xi e^{-2\kappa t}${\ This law greatly simplifies the theoretical study of photocount distribution for quantum optical field.

id: 1303.4815
title: Quantum discord of ensemble of quantum states
authors: Yao Yao, Jing-Zheng Huang, Xu-Bo Zou, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Wei Chen, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Already submitted. We notice a recent related work arXiv:1303.4659
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4815
abstract: We highlight an information-theoretic meaning of quantum discord as the gap between the ac- cessible information and the Holevo bound in the framework of ensemble of quantum states. This complementary relationship implies that a large amount of pre-existing arguments about the evaluation of quantum discord can be directly applied to the accessible information and vice versa. For an ensemble of two pure qubit states, we show that one can evade the optimization problem with the help of the Koashi-Winter relation. Further, for the general case (two mixed qubit states), we recover the main results presented by Fuchs and Caves [Phys. Rev. Lett. 73, 3047 (1994)], but totally from the perspective of quantum discord. Following this line of thought, we also investigate the geometric discord as an indicator of quantumness of ensembles in detail. Finally, we give an example to elucidate the difference between quantum discord and geometric discord with respect to optimal measurement strategies.

id: 1303.4821
title: A quantum cloning bound and application to quantum key distribution
authors: Erik Woodhead
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012331 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4821
abstract: We introduce a quantum cloning bound which we apply to a straightforward and relatively direct security proof of the prepare-and-measure Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol against collective attacks. The approach we propose is able to handle the practical problem of source and detector alignment imprecisions in a simple way. Specifically, we derive a keyrate bound for a BB84 implementation in which Alice's source emits four given but arbitrary pure states, where the usual equivalence between prepare-and-measure and entanglement-based QKD no longer applies. Our result is similar to a keyrate derived by Mar{\o}y et. al. [Phys. Rev. A 82, 032337 (2010)] and generally an improvement over the keyrate derivable from the entropic uncertainty relation in situations where it applies. We also provide a stronger result for a source emitting arbitrary qubit states, and a further improved result if the detector is additionally assumed two dimensional.

id: 1303.4827
title: Geometric interpretation of the geometric discord
authors: Yao Yao, Hong-Wei Li, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: Published version. 12 pages, 20 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376 (2012) 358
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4827
abstract: We investigate the level surfaces of geometric measure of quantum discord, and provide a pictorial interpretation of geometric discord for Bell-diagonal states. We have observed its nonanalytic behavior under decoherence employing this approach and interestingly found if we expect geometric discord to remain constant under phase-flip channel for a finite period, the initial state must be separable. Besides, this geometric understanding can be applied to verify the hierarchical relationships between geometric discord and the original one. The present work makes us conjecture that the incompatibility of these two definitions may originate from the discrepancy of the geometric structures of them.

id: 1303.4830
title: Bell violation versus geometric measure of quantum discord and their dynamical behavior
authors: Y. Yao, H.W. Li, M. Li, Z.Q. Yin, W. Chen, Z.F. Han
comments: Published version. 9 pages, 16 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2012) 66: 295
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4830
abstract: Motivated by recent numerous works on the interplay among various measures of quantum correlations, we aim to investigate the relationship between the violation of Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) Bell inequality and geometric measure of quantum discord for two-qubit systems. Exact lower and upper bounds of Bell violation versus geometric discord are obtained for a specific and significant class of states, Bell diagonal states, and the respective states which suffice those bounds are also characterized. The dynamical behavior of these two quantifiers is carefully analyzed in the presence of decoherence, including Markovian, non-Markovian, and non-back-action quantum environments. The results suggest that Bell violation is closely related to geometric discord, like its relationship with other entanglement monotones.

id: 1303.4841
title: The effect of channel decoherence on entangled coherent states: A theoretical analysis
authors: Yao Yao, Hong-Wei Li, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: Close to the published version. 10 pages, 9 figures. Note that quantum discord of ECSs has been investigated. See arXiv:1209.3706,1210.2212
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375, 3762-3769 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4841
abstract: We analyse decoherence properties of entangled coherent states (ECSs) due to channel losses, and compare to the performance of bi-photon Bell states. By employing the concept of "entanglement of formation" (EOF), the degradation of fidelity and degree of entanglement are calculated. Two situations are considered: (1) asymmetric and (2) symmetric noise channel. In the first case, only the lower bound of EOF is given. However, in the latter case, we have obtained an explicit expression of concurrence (and then EOF) and found surprisingly our result is just incompatible with that of [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{82}, (2010) 062325] in the limit of $\alpha\rightarrow0$. We demonstrate that entangled coherent states with sufficient small amplitudes are more robust against channel decoherence than biphoton entangled states in both cases.

id: 1303.4843
title: Tree-size complexity of multiqubit states
authors: Huy Nguy¨ºn L¨º, Yu Cai, Xingyao Wu, Valerio Scarani
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012321 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4843
abstract: Complexity is often invoked alongside size and mass as a characteristic of macroscopic quantum objects. In 2004, Aaronson introduced the \textit{tree size} (TS) as a computable measure of complexity and studied its basic properties. In this paper, we improve and expand on those initial results. In particular, we give explicit characterizations of a family of states with superpolynomial complexity $n^{\Omega(\log n)}= \mathrm{TS} =O(\sqrt{n}!)$ in the number of qubits $n$; and we show that any matrix-product state whose tensors are of dimension $D\times D$ has polynomial complexity $\mathrm{TS}=O(n^{\log_2 2D})$.

id: 1303.4864
title: The quasi-dark state and quantum interference in Jaynes-Cummings model with a common bath
authors: Zhihai Wang, D. L. Zhou
comments: 8 pages, accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013809 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4864
abstract: Within the capacity of current experiments, we design a composite atom-cavity system with a common bath, in which the decay channels of the atom and the cavity mode interfere with each other. When the direct atom-cavity coupling is absent, the system can be trapped in a quasi-dark state (the coherent superposition of excited states for the atom and the cavity mode) without decay even in the presence of the bath. When the atom directly couples with the cavity, the largest decay rate of the composite system will surpass the sum of the two subsystems while the smallest decay rate may achieve 0. This is manifested in the transmission spectrum, where the vacuum Rabi splitting shows an obvious asymmetric character.

id: 1303.4868
title: Multiparty Quantum Remote Control
authors: Yu-Ting Chen, Tzonelih Hwang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4868
abstract: This paper proposes a multiparty quantum remote control (MQRC) protocol, which allows several controllers to perform remote operations independently on a target state based on a shared entanglement of Greenberger-Home-Zeilinger (GHZ) state.

id: 1303.4874
title: Nonlinear Spectral Singularities and Lasing Threshold Condition
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review A 87, 063838 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4874
abstract: A spectral singularity is a mathematical notion with an intriguing physical realization in terms of certain zero-width resonances. In optics it manifests as lasing at the threshold gain. We explore the application of their recently-developed nonlinear generalization in the study of the effect of a nonlinearity on the lasing threshold condition for an infinite planar slab of gain medium. In particular, for a Kerr nonlinearity, we derive an explicit expression for the intensity of the emitted waves from the slab and discuss the implications of our results for the time-reversed system that acts as a coherent perfect absorber.

id: 1303.4876
title: PT-symmetry and level-crossing paradox
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 11 pp, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4876
abstract: Via an elementary, exactly solvable example it is demonstrated that the physical meaning of quantum systems which are characterized by a PT-symmetric Hamiltonian with real spectrum may prove dramatically different before and after some of the energy levels happen to cross. An elementary explanation of the paradox is provided.

id: 1303.4927
title: Dispersive optical nonlinearities in an EIT-Rydberg medium
authors: Jovica Stanojevic, Valentina Parigi, Erwan Bimbard, Alexei Ourjoumtsev, Philippe Grangier
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053845 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4927
abstract: We investigate dispersive optical nonlinearities that arise from Rydberg excitation blockade in cold Rydberg gases. We consider a two-photon transition scheme and study the non-linear response to a weak optical probe in presence of a strong control beam. For very low probe fields, the dominant nonlinearities are of the third order and they can be exactly evaluated in a steady state regime. In a more general case, the change in average atomic populations and coherences due to Rydberg interactions can be characterized by properly defined scaling parameters, which are generally complex numbers but in certain situations take the usual meaning of the number of atoms in a blockade sphere. They can be used in a simple "universal scaling" formula to determine the dispersive optical nonlinearity of the medium. We also develop a novel technique to account for the Rydberg interaction effects, by simplifying the treatment of nonlocal interaction terms, the so-called collisional integrals. We find algebraic relations that only involve two-body correlations, which can be solved numerically. All average populations and coherences are then obtained straightforwardly.

id: 1303.4937
title: Nonunitary geometric phases: a qubit coupled to an environment with random noise
authors: Fernando C. Lombardo, Paula I. Villar
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4937
abstract: We describe the decoherence process induced on a two-level quantum system in direct interaction with a non-equilibrium environment. The non-equilibrium feature is represented by a non-stationary random function corresponding to the fluctuating transition frequency between two quantum states coupled to the surroundings. In this framework, we compute the decoherence factors which have a characteristic "dip" related to the initial phases of the bath modes. We therefore study different types of environments, namely ohmic and supra-ohmic. These environments present different decoherence time-scales than the thermal environment we used to study. As a consequence, we compute analytically and numerically the non-unitary geometric phase for the qubit in a quasi-cyclic evolution under the presence of these particular non-equilibrium environments. We show in which cases decoherence effects could, in principle, be controlled in order to perform a measurement of the geometric phase using standard procedures.

id: 1303.4939
title: Equivalence Relations for the Classical Capacity of Single-Mode Gaussian Quantum channels
authors: Joachim Sch?fer, Evgueni Karpov, Ra¨²l Garc¨ªa-Patr¨®n, Oleg V. Pilyavets, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 4+10 pages, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 030503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4939
abstract: We prove the equivalence of an arbitrary single-mode Gaussian quantum channel and a newly defined fiducial channel preceded by a phase shift and followed by a Gaussian unitary operation. This equivalence implies that the energy-constrained classical capacity of any single-mode Gaussian channel can be calculated based on this fiducial channel, which is furthermore simply realizable with a beam splitter, two identical single-mode squeezers, and a two-mode squeezer. In a large domain of parameters, we also provide an analytical expression for the Gaussian classical capacity, exploiting its additivity, and prove that the classical capacity cannot exceed it by more than 1/ln2 bits.

id: 1303.4976
title: Time-Continuous Bell Measurements
authors: Sebastian G. Hofer, Denis V. Vasilyev, Markus Aspelmeyer, Klemens Hammerer
comments: 4+4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 170404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4976
abstract: We combine the concept of Bell measurements, in which two systems are projected into a maximally entangled state, with the concept of continuous measurements, which concerns the evolution of a continuously monitored quantum system. For such time-continuous Bell measurements we derive the corresponding stochastic Schr\"odinger equations, as well as the unconditional feedback master equations. Our results apply to a wide range of physical systems, and are easily adapted to describe an arbitrary number of systems and measurements. Time-continuous Bell measurements therefore provide a versatile tool for the control of complex quantum systems and networks. As examples we show show that (i) two two-level systems can be deterministically entangled via homodyne detection, tolerating photon loss up to 50%, and (ii) a quantum state of light can be continuously teleported to a mechanical oscillator, which works under the same conditions as are required for optomechanical ground state cooling.

id: 1303.4977
title: Renormalization in Winter Model
authors: U. G. Aglietti, P. M. Santini
comments: Version accepted by Phys. Rev. A, containing some small additional comments and explanations
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022111 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4977
abstract: We show that metastable states in Winter model can be related to the eigenstates of a particle in a box by means of renormalization and mixing.

id: 1303.4978
title: Amendable Gaussian channels:restoring entanglement via a unitary filter
authors: A. De Pasquale, A. Mari, A. Porzio, V. Giovannetti
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062307 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4978
abstract: We show that there exist Gaussian channels which are amendable. A channel is amendable if when applied twice is entanglement breaking while there exists a unitary filter such that, when interposed between the first and second action of the map, prevents the global transformation from being entanglement breaking [Phys. Rev. A 86, 052302 (2012)]. We find that, depending on the structure of the channel, the unitary filter can be a squeezing transformation or a phase shift operation. We also propose two realistic quantum optics experiments where the amendability of Gaussian channels can be verified by exploiting the fact that it is sufficient to test the entanglement breaking properties of two mode Gaussian channels on input states with finite energy (which are not maximally entangled).

id: 1303.4993
title: The quantum de Finetti representation for the Bayesian Quantum Tomography and the Quantum Discord
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich, D. S. Mogilevtsev
comments: We have added as a supplementary material at the end of the manuscript the review reports and our replies, which, as we believe, are very interesting
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4993
abstract: We point out that the quantum de Finetti representation, unique for infinitely extendable exchangeable systems, assigns a non-zero Quantum Discord to uncorrelated systems and thus cannot serve as an universal prior distribution in the Bayesian Quantum Tomography. This apparent paradox stems from linearity of the Born rule for the probability assignment in Quantum Mechanics, which results in mixing of one's knowledge about the quantum state and the representative of the state in one density matrix.

id: 1303.5006
title: Local quantum protocols for separable measurements with many parties
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: Comments welcome. 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 052135 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5006
abstract: In a recent paper \cite{mySEPvsLOCC}, we showed how to construct a quantum protocol for implementing a bipartite, separable quantum measurement using only local operations on subsystems and classical communication between parties (LOCC) within any fixed number of rounds of communication, whenever such a protocol exists. Here, we generalize that construction to one that applies for any number of parties. One important observation is that the construction automatically determines the ordering of the parties' measurements, overcoming a significant apparent difficulty in designing protocols for more than two parties. We also present various other results about LOCC, including showing that if, in any given measurement operator of the separable measurement under consideration, the local parts for two different parties are rank-1 operators that are not repeated in any other measurement operator of the measurement, then this separable measurement cannot be exactly implemented by LOCC in any finite number of rounds.

id: 1303.5040
title: Quantum simulations of gauge theories with ultracold atoms: local gauge invariance from angular momentum conservation
authors: Erez Zohar, J. Ignacio Cirac, Benni Reznik
comments: 28 pages, 16 figures. Third version - references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023617 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5040
abstract: Quantum simulations of High Energy Physics, and especially of gauge theories, is an emerging and exciting direction in quantum simulations. However, simulations of such theories, compared to simulations of condensed matter physics, must satisfy extra restrictions, such as local gauge and Lorentz invariance. In this paper we discuss these special requirements, and present a new method for quantum simulation of lattice gauge theories using ultracold atoms. This method allows to include local gauge invariance as a fundamental symmetry of the atomic Hamiltonian, arising from natural atomic interactions and conservation laws (and not as a property of a low energy sector). This allows us to implement elementary gauge invariant interactions for three lattice gauge theories: compact QED (U(1)), SU(N) and Z_N, which can be used to build quantum simulators in 1+1 dimensions. We also present a new loop method, which uses the elementary interactions as building blocks in the effective construction of quantum simulations for d+1 dimensional lattice gauge theories (d>1), without having to use Gauss's law as a constraint, as in previous proposals. We discuss in detail the quantum simulation of 2+1 dimensional compact QED and provide a numerical proof of principle. The simplicity of the already gauge invariant elementary interactions of this model suggests it may be useful for future experimental realizations.

id: 1303.5043
title: Do entangled photons induce two-photon two-atom transitions more efficiently than other states of light ?
authors: Zhan Zheng, Pablo L. Saldanha, Jose R. Rios Leite, Claude Fabre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5043
abstract: We study in this paper the efficiency of different two-photon states of light to induce the simultaneous excitation of two atoms of different kinds when the sum of the energies of the two photons matches the sum of the energies of the two atomic transitions, while no photons are resonant with each individual transition. We find that entangled two-photon states produced by an atomic cascade are indeed capable of enhancing by a large factor the simultaneous excitation probability as compared to uncorrelated photons, as predicted some years ago by Muthukrishnan et al, but that several non-entangled, separable, correlated states, produced either by an atomic cascade or parametric down conversion, or even appropriate combinations of coher- ent states, have comparable efficiencies. We show that the key ingredient for the increase of simultaneous excitation probability is the presence of strong frequency anti-correlation and not time correlation nor time-frequency entanglement.

id: 1303.5092
title: Robust-to-loss entanglement generation using a quantum plasmonic nanoparticle array
authors: Changhyoup Lee, Mark Tame, Changsuk Noh, James Lim, Stefan A. Maier, Jinhyoung Lee, Dimitris G. Angelakis
comments: 32 pages, 11 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 083017 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5092
abstract: We introduce a scheme for generating entanglement between two quantum dots using a plasmonic waveguide made from an array of metal nanoparticles. We show that the scheme is robust to loss, enabling it to work over long distance plasmonic nanoparticle arrays, as well as in the presence of other imperfections such as the detuning of the energy levels of the quantum dots. The scheme represents an alternative strategy to the previously introduced dissipative driven schemes for generating entanglement in plasmonic systems. Here, the entanglement is generated by using dipole-induced interference effects and detection-based postselection. Thus, contrary to the widely held view that loss is major problem for quantum plasmonic systems, we provide a robust-to-loss entanglement generation scheme that could be used as a versatile building block for quantum state engineering and control at the nanoscale.

id: 1303.5110
title: One-norm geometric quantum discord under decoherence
authors: J. D. Montealegre, F. M. Paula, A. Saguia, M. S. Sarandy
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042115 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5110
abstract: Geometric quantum discord is a well-defined measure of quantum correlation if Schatten 1-norm (trace norm) is adopted as a distance measure. Here, we analytically investigate the dynamical behavior of the 1-norm geometric quantum discord under the effect of decoherence. By starting from arbitrary Bell-diagonal mixed states under Markovian local noise, we provide the decays of the quantum correlation as a function of the decoherence parameters. In particular, we show that the 1-norm geometric discord exhibits the possibility of double sudden changes and freezing behavior during its evolution. For non-trivial Bell-diagonal states under simple Markovian channels, these are new features that are in contrast with the Schatten 2-norm (Hilbert-Schmidt) geometric discord. The necessary and sufficient conditions for double sudden changes as well as their exact locations in terms of decoherence probabilities are provided. Moreover, we illustrate our results by investigating decoherence in quantum spin chains in the thermodynamic limit.

id: 1303.5122
title: Nonadiabatic transitions in exactly solvable quantum mechanical multichannel model: role of level curvature and counterintuitive behavior
authors: N. A. Sinitsyn
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 150603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5122
abstract: We derive an exact solution of an explicitly time-dependent multichannel model of quantum mechanical nonadiabatic transitions. In the limit N >>1, where N is the number of states, we find that the survival probability of the initially populated state remains finite despite an almost arbitrary choice of a large number of parameters. This observation proves that quantum mechanical nonadiabatic transitions among a large number of states can effectively keep memory about the initial state of the system. This property can lead to a strongly non-ergodic behavior even in the thermodynamic limit of some systems with a broad distribution of coupling constants and the lack of energy conservation.

id: 1303.5124
title: The Physics of crypto-nonlocality
authors: Miguel Navascues
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022114 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5124
abstract: In 2003, Leggett introduced his model of crypto-nonlocality based on considerations on the reality of the photon polarization. In this note, we prove that, contrary to hints in subsequent literature, crypto-nonlocality does not follow naturally from the postulate that polarization is a realistic variable. More explicitly, consider physical theories where: a) faster-than-light communication is impossible; b) all physical photon states have a definite polarization; and c) given two separate photons, if we measure one of them and post-select on the result, the measurement statistics of the remaining system correspond to a photon state. We show that the outcomes of any two-photon polarization experiment in these theories must follow the statistics generated by measuring a separable two-qubit quantum state. Consequently, in such experiments any instance of entanglement detection -and not necessarily a Leggett inequality violation- can be regarded as a refutation of this class of theories.

id: 1303.5176
title: Material dependence of Casimir interaction between a sphere and a plate: First analytic correction beyond proximity force approximation
authors: L. P. Teo
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5176
abstract: We derive analytically the asymptotic behavior of the Casimir interaction between a sphere and a plate when the distance between them, $d$, is much smaller than the radius of the sphere, $R$. The leading order and next-to-leading order terms are derived from the exact formula for the Casimir interaction energy. They are found to depend nontrivially on the dielectric functions of the objects. As expected, the leading order term coincides with that derived using the proximity force approximation. The result on the next-to-leading order term complements that found by Bimonte, Emig and Kardar [Appl. Phys. Lett. \textbf{100}, 074110 (2012)] using derivative expansion. Numerical results are presented when the dielectric functions are given by the plasma model or the Drude model, with the plasma frequency (for plasma and Drude models) and relaxation frequency (for Drude model) given respectively by 9eV and 0.035eV, the conventional values used for gold metal. It is found that if plasma model is used instead of Drude model, the error in the sum of the first two leading terms is at most 2%, while the error in $\theta_1$, the ratio of the next-to-leading order term divided by $d/R$ to the leading order term, can go up to 4.5%.

id: 1303.5182
title: Autler-Townes multiplet spectroscopy
authors: Fazal Ghafoor
comments: 41 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5182
abstract: We extend the concepts of the Autler-Townes doublet and triplet spectroscopy to quartuplet, quintuplet and suggest linkages in sodium atom in which to display these spectra. We explore the involved fundamental processes of quantum interference of the corresponding spectroscopy by examining the Laplace transform of the corresponding state-vector subjected to steady coherent illumination in the rotating wave approximation and Weisskopf-Wigner treatment of spontaneous emission as a simplest probability loss. In the quartuplet, four fields interact appropriately and resonantly with the five-level atom. The spectral profile of the single decaying level, upon interaction with three other levels, splits into four destructively interfering dressed states generating three dark lines in the spectrum. These dark lines divide the spectrum into four spectral components (bright lines) whose widths are effectively controlled by the relative strength of the laser fields and the relative width of the single decaying level. We also extend the idea to the higher-ordered multiplet spectroscopy by increasing the number of energy levels of the atomic system, the number of laser fields to couple with the required states. The apparent disadvantage of these schemes is the successive increase in the number of laser fields required for the strongly interactive atomic states in the complex atomic systems. However, these complexities are naturally inherited and are the beauties of these atomic systems. They provide the foundations for the basic mechanisms of the quantum interference involved in the higher-ordered multiplet spectroscopy.

id: 1303.5186
title: An alternative realization of spontaneous emission cancelation via Field Generated Coherence (FGC)
authors: Fazal Ghafoor
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5186
abstract: In contrast to the traditional Spontaneous Generated Coherence (SGC), Field Generated Coherence (FGC)-based atomic scheme is presented for spontaneous emission cancellation. It is easy to achieve externally controllable experimental trapping condition in this 4-field-driven 5-level atomic system. Consequently, due to the FGC the decay from the central dressed \emph{bare-energy-state} of the set of upper three closely spaced hyperfine decaying states of Sodium D2 line is completely cancelled under the trapping condition, exhibiting a novel phenomenon of a \textit{dark bare-energy-state}% . Extending to an atomic system of simple probability loss, based on Sodium D1 line, the bright atom can also be darkened under its trapping condition, representing another experimentally viable, novel and interesting phenomenon.

id: 1303.5238
title: Purity dependent uncertainty relation and possible enhancement of quantum tunneling phenomenon
authors: V. N. Chernega
comments: 7 pages, to appear in JRLR
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5238
abstract: The position-momentum uncertainty relations containing the dependence of their quantum bounds on state purity parameter $\mu$ are discussed in context of possibilities to influence on the potential barrier transparency by means of decoherence processes. The behavior of barrier transparency $D$ is shown to satisfy the condition $\mu^{-1}\ln D=const$. The particular case of thermal state with temperature $T$ where the purity parameter is a function of temperature is considered. For large temperature the condition for the barrier transparency is shown to be $T\ln D=const$.

id: 1303.5256
title: Resonance phenomena in the interaction of a many-photon wave packet and a qubit
authors: Omri Gat, Max Lein, Stefan Teufel
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A 46, no. 31, p. 315301, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5256
abstract: We demonstrate that a highly excited quantum electromagnetic mode strongly interacting with a single qubit exhibits several distinct resonances in addition to the Bloch-Siegert resonance condition that arises in the interaction with classical radiation. The resonance phenomena are associated with non-classical effects: Collapse of Rabi oscillations, splitting of the photon wave packet, and field-qubit entanglement. The analysis is based on a semiclassical phase-space flow of 2-by-2 matrices and becomes exact when the photon number tends to infinity. The flow equations are solved perturbatively and numerically, showing that the resonant detuning of the field and qubit frequencies lie on two branches in the leading order, that further split into distinct curves in higher orders.

id: 1303.5257
title: Optical spin squeezing: bright beams as high-flux entangled photon sources
authors: Federica A. Beduini, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 143601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5257
abstract: In analogy with the spin-squeezing inequality of Wang and Sanders [Physical Review A 68, 012101 (2003)], we find inequalities describing macroscopic polarization correlations that are obeyed by all classical fields, and whose violation implies entanglement of the photons that make up the optical beam. We consider a realistic and exactly-solvable experimental scenario employing polarization- squeezed light from an optical parametric oscillator (OPO) and find that any two photons separated by less than the OPO coherence time are polarization entangled. The polarization entanglement is robust against losses and extremely bright: efficiency can exceed that of existing "ultra-bright" pair sources by at least an order of magnitude. This translation of spin-squeezing inequalities to the optical domain will enable direct tests of the squeezing-entanglement relationship.

id: 1303.5266
title: Complete positivity and contextuality of quantum dynamics
authors: Song Cheng, Dongsheng Wang
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5266
abstract: Positivity or the stronger notion of complete positivity, and contextuality are central properties of quantum dynamics. In this work, we demonstrate that a physical unitary-universe dilation model could be employed to characterize the completely positive map, regardless of the initial correlation condition. Particularly, the problem of initial correlation can be resolved by a swap operation. Furthermore, we discuss the physical essence of completely positive map and highlights its limitations. Then we develop the quantum measurement-chain formula beyond the framework of completely positive map in order to describe much broader quantum dynamics, and therein the property of contextuality could be captured via measurement transfer matrix.

id: 1303.5281
title: Experimental Test of an Event-Based Corpuscular Model Modification as an Alternative to Quantum Mechanics
authors: Giorgio Brida, Ivo Pietro Degiovanni, Marco Genovese, Alan Migdall, Fabrizio Piacentini, Sergey V. Polyakov, Paolo Traina
comments: 
journal: Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 82 (2013) 034004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5281
abstract: We present the first experimental test that distinguishes between an event-based corpuscular model (EBCM) [H. De Raedt et al.: J. Comput. Theor. Nanosci. 8 (2011) 1052] of the interaction of photons with matter and quantum mechanics. The test looks at the interference that results as a single photon passes through a Mach-Zehnder interferometer [H. De Raedt et al.: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 74 (2005) 16]. The experimental results, obtained with a low-noise single-photon source [G. Brida et al.: Opt. Expr. 19 (2011) 1484], agree with the predictions of standard quantum mechanics with a reduced $\chi^2$ of 0.98 and falsify the EBCM with a reduced $\chi^2$ of greater than 20.

id: 1303.5319
title: Glued trees algorithm under phase damping
authors: J. Lockhart, C. Di Franco, M. Paternostro
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Lett. A 378, 338 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5319
abstract: We study the behaviour of the glued trees algorithm described by Childs et al. in [STOC `03, Proc. 35th ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (2004) 59] under decoherence. We consider a discrete time reformulation of the continuous time quantum walk protocol and apply a phase damping channel to the coin state, investigating the effect of such a mechanism on the probability of the walker appearing on the target vertex of the graph. We pay particular attention to any potential advantage coming from the use of weak decoherence for the spreading of the walk across the glued trees graph.

id: 1303.5322
title: Chiral specific electron vortex beam spectroscopy
authors: J. Yuan, S.M. Lloyd, M. Babiker
comments: 5 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5322
abstract: Electron vortex beams carry well-defined orbital angular momentum (OAM) about the propagation axis. Such beams are thus characterised by chirality features which make them potentially useful as probes of magnetic and other chiral materials. An analysis of the inelastic processes in which electron vortex beams interact with atoms and which involve OAM exchange is outlined, leading to the multipolar selection rules governing this chiral specific electron vortex beam spectroscopy. Our results show clearly that the selection rules are dependent on the dynamical state and location of the atoms involved. In the most favorable scenario, this form of electron spectroscopy can induce magnetic sublevel transitions which are commonly probed using circularly polarized photon beams.

id: 1303.5326
title: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger theorem for N qudits
authors: Junghee Ryu, Changhyoup Lee, Marek Zukowski, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: 5 pages, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5326
abstract: We generalize Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) theorem to an arbitrary number of D-dimensional systems. Contrary to conventional approaches using compatible composite observables, we employ incompatible and concurrent observables, whose common eigenstate is still a generalized GHZ state. It is these concurrent observables which enable to prove a genuinely N-partite and D-dimensional GHZ theorem. Our principal idea is illustrated for a four-partite system with D which is an arbitrary multiple of 3. By extending to N qudits, we show that GHZ theorem holds as long as N is not divisible by all nonunit divisors of D, smaller than N.

id: 1303.5343
title: Entanglement's Benefit Survives an Entanglement-Breaking Channel
authors: Zheshen Zhang, Maria Tengner, Tian Zhong, Franco N. C. Wong, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5343
abstract: Entanglement is essential to many quantum information applications, but it is easily destroyed by quantum decoherence arising from interaction with the environment. We report the first experimental demonstration of an entanglement-based protocol that is resilient to loss and noise which destroy entanglement. Specifically, despite channel noise 8.3 dB beyond the threshold for entanglement breaking, eavesdropping-immune communication is achieved between Alice and Bob when an entangled source is used, but no such immunity is obtainable when their source is classical. The results prove that entanglement can be utilized beneficially in lossy and noisy situations, i.e., in practical scenarios.

id: 1303.5355
title: Compact Gaussian quantum computation by multi-pixel homodyne detection
authors: Giulia Ferrini, Jean-Pierre Gazeau, Thomas Coudreau, Claude Fabre, Nicolas Treps
comments: Eqs.(20)-(21) corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5355
abstract: We study the possibility of producing and detecting continuous variable cluster states in an optical set-up in an extremely compact fashion. This method is based on a multi-pixel homodyne detection system recently demonstrated experimentally, which includes classical data post-processing. It allows to incorporate the linear optics network, usually employed in standard experiments for the production of cluster states, in the stage of the measurement. After giving an example of cluster state generation by this method, we further study how this procedure can be generalized to perform gaussian quantum computation.

id: 1303.5502
title: Spectral Representation of Some Computably Enumerable Sets With an Application to Quantum Provability
authors: Cristian S. Calude, Kohtaro Tadaki
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX2e, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5502
abstract: We propose a new type of quantum computer which is used to prove a spectral representation for a class F of computable sets. When S in F codes the theorems of a formal system, the quantum computer produces through measurement all theorems and proofs of the formal system. We conjecture that the spectral representation is valid for all computably enumerable sets. The conjecture implies that the theorems of a general formal system, like Peano Arithmetic or ZFC, can be produced through measurement; however, it is unlikely that the quantum computer can produce the proofs as well, as in the particular case of F. The analysis suggests that showing the provability of a statement is different from writing up the proof of the statement.

id: 1303.5516
title: Quantum effects in the interaction of off-resonant coherent light with a single atom
authors: Akihiro Yamaguchi, Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 8 pages, including one figure, added details on possible experiments, as illustrated by the figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013809 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5516
abstract: Well controlled nonlinear interactions between light field pulses and single atoms could be used to implement optical quantum information technologies based on qubits encoded in superpositions of coherent states of light. Here, we investigate the transformation of a coherent light field input at a single atom sufficiently far from resonance to limit the decoherence effects associated with random excitations of the atom. The conditions for suppressing multi-photon scattering to implement arbitrarily large shifts of the coherent light amplitude without decoherence are studied. It is shown that quantum controlled coherent shifts can be achieved by sufficiently long coherent pulses, indicating the possibility of generating superpositions of coherent states with large amplitude differences. The dominant multi-photon scattering effect associated with four wave mixing is also identified, and the spectral and temporal characteristics of the entangled photon pairs generated by this process are discussed.

id: 1303.5523
title: Bidirectional controlled teleportation by using 5-qubit states: A generalized view
authors: Chitra Shukla, Anindita Banerjee, Anirban Pathak
comments: 4 tables and 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5523
abstract: Recently bidirectional controlled perfect teleportation using 5-qubit states are reported in (Int. J. Theor. Phys. (2013) DOI 10.1007/s10773-013-1484-8 and ibid, (2013) DOI 10.1007/s10773-012-1208-5). In this paper we have shown that there exists a class of 5-qubit quantum states that can be used for bidirectional controlled teleportation. Two out of the three reported cases are the special cases of the proposed class of 5-qubit quantum states and one of them is not strictly a case of controlled bidirectional quantum teleportation. Further, we have shown that one can in principle, construct infinitely many 5-qubit quantum states for this purpose. We have also shown that the idea can be extended to bidirectional controlled probabilistic teleportation. Some potential applications of the proposed scheme and its modified versions are also discussed in relation with the implementation of quantum remote control and quantum cryptography.

id: 1303.5530
title: Qualitative Noise-Disturbance Relation for Quantum Measurements
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Takayuki Miyadera
comments: update to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5530
abstract: The inherent connection between noise and disturbance is one of the most fundamental features of quantum measurements. In the two well-known extreme cases a measurement either makes no disturbance but then has to be totally noisy or is as accurate as possible but then has to disturb so much that all subsequent measurements become redundant.Most of the measurements are, however, something between these two extremes.We derive a structural relation between observables and channels that properly explains the trade-off between noise and disturbance.

id: 1303.5564
title: Quantum loss of synchronization in the dynamics of two spins
authors: Y. Liu, F. Piechon, J.N. Fuchs
comments: 6 pages, 12 figures
journal: Europhysics Letters 103, 17007 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5564
abstract: Motivated by the spin self-rephasing recently observed in an atomic clock, we introduce a simple dynamical model to study the competition between dephasing and synchronization. Two spins $S$ are taken to be initially parallel and in the plane perpendicular to an inhomogeneous magnetic field $\Delta$ that tends to dephase them. In addition, the spins are coupled by exchange interaction $J$ that tries to keep them locked. The analytical solution of the classical dynamics shows that, there is a phase transition to a synchronized regime for sufficiently large exchange interaction $J>\Delta$ compared to the inhomogeneity. The quantum dynamics is solved analytically in four limits -- large/small $J/\Delta$ and large/small $S$ -- and numerically in between. In sharp contrast to the classical case, the quantum solution features very rich $S$-dependent multiscale dynamics. For any finite $S$, there is no synchronization but a crossover around $J=\Delta$ between two regimes. The synchronization transition is only recovered when $S\to \infty$, approaching the classical solution in a non-trivial way. Quantum effects therefore suppress the synchronization transition.

id: 1303.5570
title: Computable measure of the quantum correlation
authors: S. Javad Akhtarshenas, Hamidreza Mohammadi, Saman Karimi, Zahra Azmi
comments: 14 pages, Title and Abstract are changed, Sections I, III are modified, Two figures are added, Appendices A and B are added, Conclusion is refined
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5570
abstract: A general state of an $m\otimes n$ system is a classical-quantum state if and only if its associated $A$-correlation matrix (a matrix constructed from the coherence vector of the party $A$, the correlation matrix of the state, and a function of the local coherence vector of the subsystem $B$), has rank no larger than $m-1$. Using the general Schatten $p$-norms, we quantify quantum correlation by measuring any violation of this condition. The required minimization can be carried out for the general $p$-norms and any function of the local coherence vector of the unmeasured subsystem, leading to a class of computable quantities which can be used to capture the quantumness of correlations due to the subsystem $A$. We introduce two special members of these quantifiers; The first one coincides with the tight lower bound on the geometric measure of discord, so that such lower bound fully captures the quantum correlation of a bipartite system. Accordingly, a vanishing tight lower bound on the geometric discord is a necessary and sufficient condition for a state to be zero-discord. The second quantifier has the property that it is invariant under a local and reversible operation performed on the unmeasured subsystem, so that it can be regarded as a computable well-defined measure of the quantum correlations. The approach presented in this paper provides a way to circumvent the problem with the geometric discord. We provide some examples to exemplify this measure.

id: 1303.5591
title: Free randomness amplification using bipartite chain correlations
authors: Andrzej Grudka, Karol Horodecki, Micha? Horodecki, Pawe? Horodecki, Marcin Paw?owski, Ravishankar Ramanathan
comments: 4+3 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032322 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5591
abstract: A direct analysis of the protocol of randomness amplification using Bell inequality violation is performed in terms of the convex combination of no-signaling boxes required to simulate quantum violation of the inequality. The probability distributions of bits generated by a Santha-Vazirani source are shown to be mixtures of permutations of Bernoulli distributions with parameter defined by the source. An intuitive proof is provided for the range of partial randomness from which perfect randomness can be extracted using quantum correlations violating the chain inequalities. Exact values are derived in the asymptotic limit of a large number of measurement settings.

id: 1303.5615
title: Fast closed-loop optimal control of ultracold atoms in an optical lattice
authors: S. Rosi, A. Bernard, N. Fabbri, L. Fallani, C. Fort, M. Inguscio, T. Calarco, S. Montangero
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 021601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5615
abstract: We present experimental evidence of the successful closed-loop optimization of the dynamics of cold atoms in an optical lattice. We optimize the loading of an ultracold atomic gas minimizing the excitations in an array of one-dimensional tubes (3D-1D crossover) and we perform an optimal crossing of the quantum phase-transition from a Superfluid to a Mott-Insulator in a three-dimensional lattice. In both cases we enhance the experiment performances with respect to those obtained via adiabatic dynamics, effectively speeding up the process by more than a factor three while improving the quality of the desired transformation.

id: 1303.5644
title: Effective description of tunneling in a time-dependent potential with applications to voltage switching in Josephson junctions
authors: Christian Kraglund Andersen, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052119 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5644
abstract: We propose to use a time-dependent imaginary potential to describe quantum mechanical tunneling through time-varying potential barriers. We use Gamow solutions for stationary tunneling problems to justify our choice of potential, and we apply our method to describe tunneling of a mesoscopic quantum variable: the phase change across a Josephson junction. The Josephson junction phase variable behaves as the position coordinate of a particle moving in a tilted washboard potential, and our general solution to the motion in such a potential with a time-dependent tilt reproduces a number of features associated with voltage switching in Josephson junctions. Apart from applications as artificial atoms in quantum information studies, the Josephson junction may serve as an electric field sensitive detector, and our studies provide a detailed understanding of how the voltage switching dynamics couples to the electric field amplitude.

id: 1303.5666
title: Photonic Nonlinearities via Quantum Zeno Blockade
authors: Yu-Zhu Sun, Yu-Ping Huang, Prem Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5666
abstract: Realizing optical-nonlinear effects at a single-photon level is a highly desirable but also extremely challenging task, because of both fundamental and practical difficulties. We present an avenue to surmounting these difficulties by exploiting quantum Zeno blockade in nonlinear optical systems. Considering specifically a lithium-niobate microresonator, we find that a deterministic phase gate can be realized between single photons with near-unity fidelity. Supported by established techniques for fabricating and operating such devices, our approach can provide an enabling tool for all-optical applications in both classical and quantum domains.

id: 1303.5770
title: Driven Geometric Phase Gates with Trapped Ions
authors: A. Lemmer, A. Bermudez, M. B. Plenio
comments: closer to published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 083001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5770
abstract: We describe a hybrid laser-microwave scheme to implement two-qubit geometric phase gates in crystals of trapped ions. The proposed gates can attain errors below the fault-tolerance threshold in the presence of thermal, dephasing, laser-phase, and microwave-intensity noise. Moreover, our proposal is technically less demanding than previous schemes, since it does not require a laser arrangement with interferometric stability. The laser beams are tuned close to a single vibrational sideband to entangle the qubits, while strong microwave drivings provide the geometric character to the gate, and thus protect the qubits from these different sources of noise. A thorough analytic and numerical study of the performance of these gates in realistic noisy regimes is presented.

id: 1303.5888
title: Dissipative versus Conditional Generation of Gaussian Entanglement and Spin Squeezing
authors: Denis V. Vasilyev, Christine A. Muschik, Klemens Hammerer
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 053820 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5888
abstract: Spin squeezing of collective atomic spins can be achieved conditionally via probing with light and subsequent homodyne detection, as is done in a Quantum Nondemolition measurement. Recently it has been shown that squeezing can also be created unconditionally by a properly designed dissipative dynamics. We compare the two approaches in a Gaussian description, and optimize over all Gaussian light-matter interactions. We find that in the optimal unconditional scheme based on dissipation the level of squeezing scales as $d^{-1/2}$. In contrast, the optimal conditional scheme based on measurement of light -- which in fact is not a Quantum Nondemolition measurement -- can provide squeezing which scales as $d^{-1}$ in the most relevant regime of moderate optical depths. Our results apply directly also to the creation of entanglement in the form of non-local spin squeezing of two atomic ensembles.

id: 1303.5904
title: Hyperspherical Parameterization of Unitary Matrices
authors: S. R. Hedemann
comments: 6 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5904
abstract: Unitary operators are essential to quantum mechanics, however for discrete systems larger than a qubit, it is difficult to express them in a self-contained way. This report presents just such a description, providing a compact, useful parameterization, with examples of physical applications.

id: 1303.5981
title: Quantum Geometry in the Lab
authors: Craig Hogan
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5981
abstract: Standard particle theory is based on quantized matter embedded in a classical geometry. Here, a complementary model is proposed, based on classical matter -- massive bodies, without quantum properties -- embedded in a quantum geometry. It does not describe elementary particles, but may be a better, fully consistent quantum description for position states in laboratory-scale systems. Gravitational theory suggests that the geometrical quantum system has an information density of about one qubit per Planck length squared. If so, the model here predicts that the quantum uncertainty of geometry creates a new form of noise in the position of massive bodies, detectable by interferometers.

id: 1303.6009
title: Ultrabroadband nonreciprocal transverse energy flow of light in linear passive photonic circuits
authors: Keyu Xia, M. Alamri, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 13 pages, 22 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 22, pp. 25619-25631 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6009
abstract: Using a technique, analogous to coherent population trapping in an atomic system, we propose schemes to create transverse light propagation violating left-right symmetry in a photonic circuit consisting of three coupled waveguides. The frequency windows for the symmetry breaking of the left-right energy flow span over 80 nm. Our proposed system only uses linear passive optical materials and is easy to integrate on a chip.

id: 1303.6015
title: Widely tunable single photon source with high purity at telecom wavelength
authors: Rui-Bo Jin, Ryosuke Shimizu, Kentaro Wakui, Hugo Benichi, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 9, pp. 10659-10666 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6015
abstract: We theoretically and experimentally investigate the spectral tunability and purity of photon pairs generated from spontaneous parametric down conversion in periodically poled $\mathrm{KTiOPO_4}$ crystal with group-velocity matching condition. The numerical simulation predicts that the purity of joint spectral intensity ($P_{JSI}$) and the purity of joint spectral amplitude ($P_{JSA}$) can be kept higher than 0.98 and 0.81, respectively, when the wavelength is tuned from 1460 nm to 1675 nm, which covers the S-, C-, L-, and U-band in telecommunication wavelengths. We also directly measured the joint spectral intensity at 1565 nm, 1584 nm and 1565 nm, yielding $P_{JSI}$ of 0.989, 0.983 and 0.958, respectively. Such a photon source is useful for quantum information and communication systems.

id: 1303.6025
title: Robust Stability Analysis of an Optical Parametric Amplifier Quantum System
authors: Ian R. Petersen
comments: A shortened version will appear in the Proceedings of the 2013 Asian Control Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6025
abstract: This paper considers the problem of robust stability for a class of uncertain nonlinear quantum systems subject to unknown perturbations in the system Hamiltonian. The case of a nominal linear quantum system is considered with non-quadratic perturbations to the system Hamiltonian. The paper extends recent results on the robust stability of nonlinear quantum systems to allow for non-quadratic perturbations to the Hamiltonian which depend on multiple parameters. A robust stability condition is given in terms of a strict bounded real condition. This result is then applied to the robust stability analysis of a nonlinear quantum system which is a model of an optical parametric amplifier.

id: 1303.6031
title: Connection-state approach to pre- and post-selected quantum measurements
authors: Abraham G. Kofman, Sahin K. Ozdemir, Franco Nori
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures; the paper is significantly extended to make it more explicit
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6031
abstract: We discuss the concept of connection states (or connection matrices) that describe posterior ensembles, post-selected according to the outcomes of a quantum measurement. Connection matrices allow one to obtain results of any weak and some non-weak pre- and post-selected measurements, in the same manner as density matrices allow one to predict the results of conventional quantum measurements. Connection matrices are direct extensions of the density matrices and are generally non-Hermitian, which we show to be a direct consequence of quantum complementarity. This implies that the ultimate reason for unusual weak values is quantum complementarity. We show that connection matrices can be determined experimentally. We also show that retrodictive states are a special case of connection states. We propose a new method of tomography of quantum detectors.

id: 1303.6039
title: Wavelength attack on practical continuous-variable quantum-key-distribution system with a heterodyne protocol
authors: Xiang-Chun Ma, Shi-Hai Sun, Mu-Sheng Jiang, Lin-Mei Liang
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052309 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6039
abstract: We present the wavelength attack on a practical continuous-variable quantum-key-distribution system with a heterodyne protocol, in which the transmittance of beam splitters at Bob's station is wavelength-dependent. Our strategy is proposed independent of but analogous to that of Huang et al. [arXiv: 1206.6550v1 [quant-ph]], but in that paper the shot noise of the two beams that Eve sends to Bob, transmitting after the homodyne detector, is unconsidered. However, shot noise is the main contribution to the deviation of Bob's measurements from Eve's when implementing the wavelength attack, so it must be considered accurately. In this paper, we firstly analyze the solutions of the equations specifically that must be satisfied in this attack, which is not considered rigorously by Huang et al. Then we calculate the shot noise of the homodyne detector accurately and conclude that the wavelength attack can be implemented successfully in some parameter regime.

id: 1303.6043
title: Local oscillator fluctuation opens a loophole for Eve in practical continuous-variable quantum-key-distribution systems
authors: Xiang-Chun Ma, Shi-Hai Sun, Mu-Sheng Jiang, Lin-Mei Liang
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022339 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6043
abstract: We consider the security of practical continuous-variable quantum key distribution implementation with the local oscillator (LO) fluctuating in time, which opens a loophole for Eve to intercept the secret key. We show that Eve can simulate this fluctuation to hide her Gaussian collective attack by reducing the intensity of the LO. Numerical simulations demonstrate that, if Bob does not monitor the LO intensity and does not scale his measurements with the instantaneous intensity values of LO, the secret key rate will be compromised severely.

id: 1303.6055
title: A quantum speedup in machine learning: Finding a N-bit Boolean function for a classification
authors: Seokwon Yoo, Jeongho Bang, Changhyoup Lee, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables
journal: New J Phys, 2014 vol. 6 (10) 103014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6055
abstract: We compare quantum and classical machines designed for learning an N-bit Boolean function in order to address how a quantum system improves the machine learning behavior. The machines of the two types consist of the same number of operations and control parameters, but only the quantum machines utilize the quantum coherence naturally induced by unitary operators. We show that quantum superposition enables quantum learning that is faster than classical learning by expanding the approximate solution regions, i.e., the acceptable regions. This is also demonstrated by means of numerical simulations with a standard feedback model, namely random search, and a practical model, namely differential evolution.

id: 1303.6057
title: Bohmian Non-commutative Dynamics: History and New Developments
authors: B. J. Hiley
comments: 40 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6057
abstract: The reality of Bohm's intellectual journey is very different from what is often claimed by the proponents of "Bohmian Mechanics" and others as we will explain in this paper. He did not believe a mechanical explanation of quantum phenomena was possible. Central to his thinking, and incidentally to Bohr's also, was the notion of 'unbroken wholeness', a notion that is crucial for understanding quantum properties like quantum nonlocality. His proposals were based on a primitive notion of `process' or `activity', producing a more 'organic' approach to quantum phenomena. He published many papers outlining these new ideas, some plausible, some less so, but was not able to develop a coherent mathematical structure to support the work. Over the last ten years much of that missing mathematics has been put in place. This paper will report this new work, concentrating on providing a coherent overview of the whole programme.

id: 1303.6105
title: Quantum mechanical analogue of the zeroth law of thermodynamics. (On the problem of incorporating Thermodynamics into Quantum Theory)
authors: O.N.Golubjeva, A.D.Sukhanov
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6105
abstract: This approach to the incorporation of stochastic thermodynamics into quantum theory is based on the conception of consistent inclusion of the holistic stochastic environmental influence described by wave functions of the arbitrary vacuum, which was proposed in our paper previously. In this study, we implement the possibility of explicitly incorporating the zeroth law of stochastic thermodynamics in the form of the saturated Schr\"odinger uncertainty relation into quantum theory. This allows comparatively analyzing the sets of states of arbitrary vacuums, namely, squeezed coherent states (SCSs) and correlated coherent states (CCSs). In addition, we compare the results of the construction of stochastic thermodynamics using SCSs and TCCSs with the versions involving the incorporation of thermodynamics into quantum theory developed previously and based on thermofield dynamics and quantum statistical mechanics.

id: 1303.6181
title: Tunneling time problem: At the intersection of quantum mechanics, classical probability theory and special relativity
authors: Nikolay Chuprikov
comments: 30 pages, 2 figures; thoroughly rewritten text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6181
abstract: After the review by Hauge and Stovneng the old question of "How long does it take to tunnel through the barrier?" has not still lost its relevance. As before, there is no clear answer to this question even for the one-dimensional completed scattering (OCS). In this paper we show that this seemingly simple question stands alongside with such fundamental problems of quantum mechanics (QM) as the Schrodinger's-cat and and EPR-Bohm paradoxes. Their common feature is that the states of a scattered particle, a radioactive atom and electron EPR-pair represent pure {\it micro-cat} states. It is widely accepted that the EPR-Bohm paradox implies the non-existence of local hidden variables (LHVs), the cat paradox represents a macro-objectification problem and the tunneling time is an observer-dependent quantity whose definitions must be 'operational'. At the same time, according to the probabilistic approach (Accardi, Khrennikov, Philipp, Hess {\it et al.}) to Bell's inequality that underlies the EPR-Bohm experiments, its experimental violation means simply that it contains probability distributions associated with mutually incompatible statistical data. We argue that this approach must be extended onto micro-cat states because they describe, too, mutually incompatible statistical data. The current practice to interpret the squared modulus of a micro-cat state as the probability density should be recognized as erroneous. It is this practice that makes QM incompatible with classical physical theories and, thereby, makes the micro-world 'unspeakable'. The known 'operational' tunneling-time concepts, elaborated in line with this practice, are logically inconsistent. We argue that the TTP and the cat paradox must be solved at the level of single electrons and atoms, without resorting to environment and measurement contexts. We present a new model of the OCS and solve the TTP on its basis.

id: 1303.6202
title: Shaping frequency entangled qudits
authors: Christof Bernhard, B?nz Bessire, Thomas Feurer, Andr¨¦ Stefanov
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032322 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6202
abstract: Quantum entanglement between qudits - the d-dimensional version of qubits - is relevant for advanced quantum information processing and provides deeper insights in the nature of quantum correlations. Encoding qudits in the frequency modes of photon pairs produced by continuous parametric down-conversion enables access to high-dimensional states. By shaping the energy spectrum of entangled photons, we demonstrate the creation, characterization and manipulation of entangled qudits with dimension up to 4. Their respective density matrices are reconstructed by quantum state tomography. For qubits and qutrits we additionally measured the dependency of a d-dimensional Bell parameter for various degrees of entanglement. Our experiment demonstrates the ability to investigate the physics of high-dimensional frequency entangled qu$d$it states which are of great importance for quantum information science.

id: 1303.6208
title: Impurities as a quantum thermometer for a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Carlos Sab¨ªn, Angela White, Lucia Hackermuller, Ivette Fuentes
comments: v3:minor changes,references added. I.F. previously published as I. Fuentes-Guridi and I. Fuentes-Schuller. v4: final published version
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 6436 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6208
abstract: We introduce a primary thermometer which measures the temperature of a Bose-Einstein Condensate in the sub-nK regime. We show, using quantum Fisher information, that the precision of our technique improves the state-of-the-art in thermometry in the sub-nK regime. The temperature of the condensate is mapped onto the quantum phase of an atomic dot that interacts with the system for short times. We show that the highest precision is achieved when the phase is dynamical rather than geometric and when it is detected through Ramsey interferometry. Standard techniques to determine the temperature of a condensate involve an indirect estimation through mean particle velocities made after releasing the condensate. In contrast to these destructive measurements, our method involves a negligible disturbance of the system.

id: 1303.6226
title: Multiparty quantum communication using multiqubit entanglement and teleportation
authors: Shohini Ghose, Atul Kumar, Vaibhav Madhok, A. M. Hamel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6226
abstract: We propose a 2N qubit entangled channel that can be used to teleport N qubits in a network to a single receiver. We describe the construction of this channel and explicitly demonstrate how the protocol works. The protocol is different from teleportation using $N$ Bell pairs shared between $N$ senders and a single receiver, as it ensures that all parties have to participate in order for the teleportation to be successful. This can be advantageous in various scenarios and we discuss potential application of this protocol to voting.

id: 1303.6261
title: Heralded Mapping of Photonic Entanglement into Single Atoms in Free Space: Proposal for a Loophole-Free Bell Test
authors: Nicolas Sangouard, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Philipp Muller, Joyee Ghosh, Jurgen Eschner
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. v2: Minor changes
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 085004 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6261
abstract: An obvious way to entangle two atoms located at remote locations is to produce a pair of entangled photons half-way between the two atoms, to sent one photon to each location and to subsequently map the photonic entanglement into the atoms. The efficiency of this process is, however, fundamentally limited due to overall transmission losses. We propose a method to herald the success of the mapping operation in free space without destroying nor revealing the stored quantum state. Interestingly for a Bell test, the heralding signal does not open the detection loophole provided the measurement choice is performed once the heralding is obtained only. We show through a detailed feasibility study that this approach could provide an attractive alternative to Bell tests where the atom--atom entanglement is created from atom--photon entanglement using an entanglement swapping operation.

id: 1303.6304
title: Rapid mixing implies exponential decay of correlations
authors: Michael J. Kastoryano, Jens Eisert
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures, replaced by final version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 102201 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6304
abstract: We provide an analysis of the correlation properties of spin and fermionic systems on a lattice evolving according to open system dynamics generated by a local primitive Liouvillian. We show that if the Liouvillian has a spectral gap which is independent of the system size, then the correlations between local observables decay exponentially as a function of the distance between their supports. We prove, furthermore, that if the Log-Sobolev constant is independent of the system size, then the system satisfies clustering of correlations in the mutual information - a much more stringent form of correlation decay. As a consequence, in the latter case we get an area law (with logarithmic corrections) for the mutual information. As a further corollary, we obtain a stability theorem for local distant perturbations. We also demonstrate that gapped free-fermionic systems exhibit clustering of correlations in the covariance and in the mutual information. We conclude with a discussion of the implications of these results for the classical simulation of open quantum systems with matrix-product operators and the robust dissipative preparation of topologically ordered states of lattice spin systems.

id: 1303.6339
title: Can PT-Symmetric Quantum Mechanics be a Viable Alternative Quantum Theory?
authors: Sungwook Lee, Lawrence R. Mead
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to a crucial sign error in the proof of the authors' assertion about the unitarity issue with PT-symmetric quantum mechanics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6339
abstract: Update: A time-independent $n\times n$ PT-symmetric (and symmetric) Hamiltonian is diagonalizable since it has all distinct real eigenvalues and the resulting diagonal matrix is a real symmetric matrix. The diagonalization results an isometry so there shouldn't be any issue with unitarity and unfortunately this very elementary mathematical fact somehow did not draw the authors' attention. However, PT-symmetric quantum mechanics is not out of trouble. For time-dependent PT-symmetric (and symmetric) Hamiltonians (even $2\times 2$ ones) the authors observed that there is a violation of unitarity. Moreover, the first named author showed in his recent article arXiv:1312.7738 that PT-symmetric quantum mechanics is indeed a certain kind of Hermitian quantum mechanics and that in order for time-evolution to be unitary with respect to $J$-inner product (one that gives rise to a Hilbert space structure on the space of state functions), the potential energy operator $V(x)$ must be real. This means that those complex PT-symmetric Hamiltonians that have been studied by physicists are unfortunately unphysical. The first named author discussed in a subsequent article arXiv:1401.5149 that while finite-state PT-symmetric quantum mechanics with time-independent Hamiltonians is not physically any different from Hermitian quantum mechanics, PT-symmetric quantum mechanics exhibits a distinctive symmetry from that of Hermitian quantum mechanics.

id: 1303.6354
title: Electromagnetic Casimir Forces in Elliptic Cylinder Geometries
authors: Noah Graham
comments: 7 pages, 3 .eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 105004 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6354
abstract: The scattering theory approach makes it possible to carry out exact calculations of Casimir energies in any geometry for which the scattering T-matrix and a partial wave expansion of the free Green's function are available. We implement this program for the case of a perfectly conducting elliptic cylinder, thereby completing the set of geometries where electromagnetic scattering is separable. Particular emphasis is placed on the case of zero radius, where the elliptic cylinder reduces to a strip.

id: 1303.6356
title: A measurement-induced optical Kerr interaction
authors: Seckin Sefi, Vishal Vaibhav, Peter van Loock
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6356
abstract: We present a method for implementing a weak optical Kerr interaction (single-mode Kerr Hamiltonian) in a measurement-based fashion using the common set of universal elementary interactions for continuous-variable quantum computation. Our scheme is a conceptually distinct alternative to the use of naturally occurring, weak Kerr nonlinearities or specially designed nonlinear media. Instead, we propose to exploit suitable offline prepared quartic ancilla states together with beam splitters, squeezers, and homodyne detectors. For perfect ancilla states and ideal operations, our decompositions for obtaining the measurement-based Kerr Hamiltonian lead to a realization with near-unit fidelity. Nonetheless, even by using only approximate ancilla states in the form of superposition states of up to four photons, high fidelities are still attainable. Our scheme requires four elementary operations and its deterministic implementation corresponds to about ten ancilla- based gate teleportations. We test our measurement-based Kerr interaction against an ideal Kerr Hamiltonian by applying them both to weak coherent states and single-photon superposition states.

id: 1303.6357
title: Exponential scaling of clock stability with atom number
authors: T. Rosenband, D. R. Leibrandt
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, updated references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6357
abstract: In trapped-atom clocks, the primary source of decoherence is often the phase noise of the oscillator. For this case, we derive theoretical performance gains by combining several atomic ensembles. For example, M ensembles of N atoms can be combined with a variety of probe periods, to reduce the frequency variance to M 2^-M times that of standard Ramsey clocks. A similar exponential improvement is possible if the atomic phases of some of the ensembles evolve at reduced frequencies. These ensembles may be constructed from atoms or molecules with lower-frequency transitions, or generated by dynamical decoupling. The ensembles with reduced frequency or probe period are responsible only for counting the integer number of 2 pi phase wraps, and do not affect the clock's systematic errors. Quantum phase measurement with Gaussian initial states allows for smaller ensemble sizes than Ramsey spectroscopy.

id: 1303.6365
title: Fault Tolerant Quantum Random Number Generator Certified by Majorana Fermions
authors: Dong-Ling Deng, Lu-Ming Duan
comments: 4pages of the main text+5 pages of supplementary information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6365
abstract: Braiding of Majorana fermions gives accurate topological quantum operations that are intrinsically robust to noise and imperfection, providing a natural method to realize fault-tolerant quantum information processing. Unfortunately, it is known that braiding of Majorana fermions is not sufficient for implementation of universal quantum computation. Here we show that topological manipulation of Majorana fermions provides the full set of operations required to generate random numbers by way of quantum mechanics and to certify its genuine randomness through violation of a multipartite Bell inequality. The result opens a new perspective to apply Majorana fermions for robust generation of certified random numbers, which has important applications in cryptography and other related areas.

id: 1303.6403
title: Multipartite Entanglement Witnesses
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 110503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6403
abstract: We derive a set of algebraic equations, the so-called multipartite separability eigenvalue equations. Based on their solutions, we introduce a universal method for the construction of multipartite entanglement witnesses. We witness multipartite entanglement of $10^3$ coupled quantum oscillators, by solving our basic equations analytically. This clearly demonstrates the feasibility of our method for studying ultra-high orders of multipartite entanglement in complex quantum systems.

id: 1303.6404
title: Robertson-Schroedinger Uncertainty Relation Refined by Skew Information
authors: Sixia Yu, C.H. Oh
comments: 5 pages; Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6404
abstract: We report a refinement of Robertson-Schroedinger uncertainty relation via Wigner-Yanase skew information. Besides the well known quantum uncertainty arising from the noncommutativity of observables, there is classical uncertainty arising from the mixedness of the states that is quantified by the difference between the variance and the skew information. Our refined uncertainty relation for canonical observables is saturated by all the Gaussian states, pure or mixed, and thus provides an alternative measure for the non-Gaussianity of quantum states. Generalizations to the case of metric adjusted skew information are presented, unifying and refining most of previous results.

id: 1303.6431
title: On the Sharpness of Localization of Individual Events in Space and Time
authors: Rudolf Haag
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6431
abstract: The concept of event provides the essential bridge from the realm of virtuality of the quantum state to real phenomena in space and time. We ask how much we can gather from existing theory about their localization and point out that decoherence and coarse graining -- though important -- do not suffice for a consistent interpretation without the additional principle of random realization.

id: 1303.6473
title: Classical random field viewpoint to Gorini-Kossakowski-Sudarshan-Lindblad equation and its linear and nonlinear generalizations
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6473
abstract: We show that the basic equation of theory of open systems, Gorini-Kossakowski-Sudarshan-Lindblad equation, as well as its linear and nonlinear generalizations have a natural classical probabilistic interpretation - in the framework of prequantum classical statistical field theory. The latter gives an example of a classical probabilistic model (with random fields as subquantum variables) reproducing the basic probabilistic predictions of quantum mechanics.

id: 1303.6497
title: Entanglement verification using local unitary stabilizers
authors: David W. Lyons, Scott N. Walck
comments: 4 pages, version 2 with minor edits, close to final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 87:062321, Jun 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6497
abstract: Local unitary stabilizer subgroups constitute powerful invariants for distinguishing various types of multipartite entanglement. In this paper, we show how stabilizers can be used as a basis for entanglement verification protocols on distributed quantum networks using minimal resources. As an example, we develop and analyze the performance of a protocol to verify membership in the space of Werner states, that is, multi-qubit states that are invariant under the action of any 1-qubit unitary applied to all the qubits.

id: 1303.6522
title: Proposal for a loophole-free Bell test based on spin-photon interactions in cavities
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Andrew B. Young, Chengyong Hu, John G. Rarity
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 105006 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6522
abstract: We present a scheme to demonstrate loophole-free Bell inequality violation where the entanglement between photon pairs is transferred to solid state (spin) qubits mediated by cavity QED interactions. As this transfer can be achieved in a heralded way, our scheme is basically insensitive to losses on the channel. This makes it appealing for the implementation of quantum information protocols based on nonlocality, such as device-independent quantum key distribution. We consider potential experimental realisations of our scheme using single atom, colour centre and quantum dot cavity systems.

id: 1303.6523
title: Proposed experiment to exclude higher-than-quantum violations of the Bell inequality
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6523
abstract: We show that a recent observation by Yan leads to a method to experimentally test whether a higher-than-quantum violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt Bell inequality is possible (assuming that the sum of probabilities of pairwise exclusive propositions cannot exceed 1). The test requires reaching the maximum quantum violation of a noncontextuality inequality involving sequences of three compatible measurements on a five-dimensional quantum system.

id: 1303.6536
title: Quantum Measurements Constrained by Symmetries
authors: P. Busch, L. D. Loveridge
comments: Invited paper, The XXIXth International Colloquium on Group-Theoretical Methods in Physics}, Chern Institute of Mathematics, August 20-26, 2012
journal: Symmetries and Groups in Contemporary Physics, Nankai Series in Pure, Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics, Vo. 11, 2013, pp. 587-592
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6536
abstract: We revisit the theorem of Wigner, Araki and Yanase (WAY) describing limitations to repeatable quantum measurements that arise from the presence of conservation laws. We will review a strengthening of this theorem by exhibiting and discussing a condition that has hitherto not been identified as a relevant factor. We will also show that an extension of the theorem to continuous variables such as position and momentum can be obtained if the degree of repeatability is suitably quantified.

id: 1303.6537
title: Width bifurcation and dynamical phase transitions in open quantum systems
authors: Hichem Eleuch, Ingrid Rotter
comments: 31 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6537
abstract: The states of an open quantum system are coupled via the environment of scattering wavefunctions. The complex coupling coefficients $\omega$ between system and environment arise from the principal value integral and the residuum. At high level density where the resonance states overlap, the dynamics of the system is determined by exceptional points. At these points, the eigenvalues of two states are equal and the corresponding eigenfunctions are linearly dependent. It is shown in the present paper that Im$(\omega)$ and Re$(\omega)$ influence the system properties differently in the surrounding of exceptional points. Controlling the system by a parameter, the eigenvalues avoid crossing in energy near an exceptional point under the influence of Re$(\omega)$ in a similar manner as it is well known from discrete states. Im$(\omega)$ however leads to width bifurcation and finally (when the system is coupled to one channel, i.e. to a common continuum of scattering wavefunctions), to a splitting of the system into two parts with different characteristic time scales. Physically, the system is stabilized by this splitting since the lifetimes of most ($N-1$) states are longer than before while that of only one state is shorter. In the cross section the short-lived state appears as a background term in high-resolution experiments. The wavefunctions of the long-lived states are mixed in those of the original ones in a comparably large parameter range. Numerical results for the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions are shown for $N=2, ~4$ and 10 states coupled mostly to 1 channel.

id: 1303.6558
title: Efficiency of heat engines coupled to nonequilibrium reservoirs
authors: Obinna Abah, Eric Lutz
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: EPL 106, 20001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6558
abstract: We consider quantum heat engines that operate between nonequilibrium stationary reservoirs. We evaluate their maximum efficiency from the positivity of the entropy production and show that it can be expressed in terms of an effective temperature that depends on the nature of the reservoirs. We further compute the efficiency at maximum power for different kinds of engineered reservoirs and derive a nonequilibrium generalization of the Clausius statement of the second law.

id: 1303.6580
title: Coarse-Graining Can Beat the Rotating Wave Approximation in Quantum Markovian Master Equations
authors: Christian Majenz, Tameem Albash, Heinz-Peter Breuer, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012103 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6580
abstract: We present a first-principles derivation of the Markovian semi-group master equation without invoking the rotating wave approximation (RWA). Instead we use a time coarse-graining approach which leaves us with a free timescale parameter, which we can optimize. Comparing this approach to the standard RWA-based Markovian master equation, we find that significantly better agreement is possible using the coarse-graining approach, for a three-level model coupled to a bath of oscillators, whose exact dynamics we can solve for at zero temperature. The model has the important feature that the RWA has a non-trivial effect on the dynamics of the populations. We show that the two different master equations can exhibit strong qualitative differences for the population of the energy eigenstates even for such a simple model. The RWA-based master equation misses an important feature which the coarse-graining based scheme does not. By optimizing the coarse-graining timescale the latter scheme can be made to approach the exact solution much more closely than the RWA-based master equation.

id: 1303.6649
title: Unsharp Localization and Causality in Relativistic Quantum Theory
authors: Paul Busch
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 32 (1999) 6535-6546
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6649
abstract: The conflict between relativistic causality and localizability is analyzed in the light of the existence of unsharp localization observables. A theorem due to S. Schlieder is generalized, showing that the assumption of local commutativity implies the localization observable in question to be unsharp in a strong sense. Furthermore, a recent generalization of a theorem of L\"uders is applied to demonstrate that local commutativity is a necessary consequence of Einstein causality even in the case of unsharp observables if they admit local measurements. These findings raise the question whether localization observables can be measured by means of local operations.

id: 1303.6696
title: Measures of Quantum State Purity and Classical Degree of Polarization
authors: Omar Gamel, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033830 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6696
abstract: There is a well-known mathematical similarity between two-dimensional classical polarization optics and two-level quantum systems, where the Poincare and Bloch spheres are identical mathematical structures. This analogy implies that the classical degree of polarization and quantum purity are in fact the same quantity. We make extensive use of this analogy to analyze various measures of polarization for higher dimensions proposed in the literature, in particular the N = 3 case, illustrating interesting relationships that emerge as well as the advantages of each measure. We also propose a different class of measures of entanglement based on the purity of subsystems.

id: 1303.6701
title: Quantum-Secured Surveillance Based on Mach-Zehnder Interferometry
authors: C. Allen Bishop, Travis S. Humble, Ryan S. Bennink, Brian P. Williams
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6701
abstract: We present a method for intrusion detection which is based on the Mach-Zehnder interference effect. This device provides monitored surveillance by continuously measuring the intensity of light collected by a pair of photodetectors. We find that our protocol allows for the detection of intrusion attempts which employ path- redirection and/or intercept-resend techniques. Expectation values for the registered output flux are provided for normal and interrupted operation.

id: 1303.6740
title: Multi-setting Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger Paradoxes
authors: Weidong Tang, Sixia Yu, C.H. Oh
comments: 4 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6740
abstract: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) paradox provides an all-versus-nothing test for the quantum nonlocality. In all the GHZ paradoxes known so far each observer is allowed to measure only two alternative observables. Here we shall present a general construction for GHZ paradoxes in which each observer measuring more than two observables given that the system is prepared in the $n$-qudit GHZ state. By doing so we are able to construct a multi-setting GHZ paradox for the $n$-qubit GHZ state, with $n$ being arbitrary, that is genuine $n$-partite, i.e., no GHZ paradox exists when restrict to a subset of number of observers for a given set of Mermin observables. Our result fills up the gap of the absence of a genuine GHZ paradox for the GHZ state of an even number of qubits, especially the four-qubit GHZ state as used in GHZ's original proposal.

id: 1303.6814
title: The SWAP test and the Hong-Ou-Mandel effect are equivalent
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052330 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6814
abstract: We show that the Hong-Ou-Mandel effect from quantum optics is equivalent to the SWAP test, a quantum information primitive which compares two arbitrary states. We first derive a destructive SWAP test that doesn't need the ancillary qubit that appears in the usual quantum circuit. Then, we study the Hong-Ou-Mandel effect for two photons meeting at a beam splitter and prove it is, in fact, an optical implementation of the destructive SWAP test. This result offers both an interesting simple realization of a powerful quantum information primitive and an alternative way to understand and analyse the Hong-Ou-Mandel effect.

id: 1303.6830
title: How many atoms get excited when they decay?
authors: Anders Bolund, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023827 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6830
abstract: We study the dynamics of an atomic two-level system decaying by spontaneous emission of light. Subject to continuous detection of the radiated field, the system tends with certainty to the ground state in the long time limit, but at initial times the excited state population exhibits non-trivial stochastic behavior. Employing methods from Ito calculus, we characterize this behavior, and we show, for example, that the emitter, as a result of in-phase homodyne measurements, may become fully excited during the decay process while heterodyne and out of phase homodyne measurements do not drive the atom completely into the excited state.

id: 1303.6831
title: Qunatum Parrondo's games constructed by quantum random walk
authors: Min Li, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6831
abstract: We construct a Parrondo's game using discrete time quantum walks. Two lossing games are represented by two different coin operators. By mixing the two coin operators $U_{A}(\alpha_{A},\beta_{A},\gamma_{A})$ and $U_{B}(\alpha_{B},\beta_{B},\gamma_{B})$, we may win the game. Here we mix the two games in position instead of time. With a number of selections of the parameters, we can win the game with sequences ABB, ABBB, \emph{et al}. If we set $\beta_{A}=45^{\circ},\gamma_{A}=0,\alpha_{B}=0,\beta_{B}=88^{\circ}$, we find the game 1\emph{}with {\normalsize $U_{A}^{S}=U^{S}(-51^{\circ},45^{\circ},0)$, $U_{B}^{S}=U^{S}(0,88^{\circ},-16^{\circ})$ will win and get the most profit.}If we set $\alpha_{A}=0,\beta_{A}=45^{\circ},\alpha_{B}=0,\beta_{B}=88^{\circ}$ and{\normalsize{} the game 2 with $U_{A}^{S}=U^{S}(0,45^{\circ},-51^{\circ})$, $U_{B}^{S}=U^{S}(0,88^{\circ},-67^{\circ})$, will win most. And}game 1\emph{}{\normalsize is equivalent to the}game\emph{}2\emph{}with the changes of sequences and steps. But at a large enough steps, the game will loss at last.

id: 1303.6917
title: Is there life beyond Quantum Mechanics?
authors: Anton Kapustin
comments: 23 pages, latex. v3: commentaries on the axioms expanded, a non-technical summary added, references added, typos fixed. v4: version accepted for publication in Journal of Mathematical Physic (under a different title). Axiomatics is simplified and the number of axioms reduced, some proofs clarified, typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6917
abstract: We formulate physically-motivated axioms for a physical theory which for systems with a finite number of degrees of freedom uniquely lead to Quantum Mechanics as the only nontrivial consistent theory. Complex numbers and the existence of the Planck constant common to all systems arise naturally in this approach. The axioms are divided into two groups covering kinematics and basic measurement theory respectively. We show that even if the second group of axioms is dropped, there are no deformations of Quantum Mechanics which preserve the kinematic axioms. Thus any theory going beyond Quantum Mechanics must represent a radical departure from the usual a priori assumptions about the laws of Nature.

id: 1303.6971
title: Composite Toffoli gate with two-round error detection
authors: Cody Jones
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052334 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6971
abstract: We introduce a fault-tolerant construction to implement a composite quantum operation of four overlapping Toffoli gates. The same construction can produce two independent Toffoli gates. This result lowers resource overheads in designs for quantum computers by more than an order of magnitude. The procedure uses Clifford operations and 64 copies of the non-Clifford gate $T = \exp[i \pi (I - \sigma^z) /8]$. Quantum codes detect errors in the circuit. When the dominant source of error is $T$-gate failure with probability $p$, then the composite Toffoli circuit has postselected failure rate of $3072p^4$ to lowest order.

id: 1303.6983
title: Quantum Catalysis of Magnetic Phase Transitions in a Quantum Simulator
authors: Philip Richerme, Crystal Senko, Simcha Korenblit, Jacob Smith, Aaron Lee, Rajibul Islam, Wesley C. Campbell, Christopher Monroe
comments: New data in Fig. 3, and much of the paper rewritten
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 100506 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6983
abstract: We control quantum fluctuations to create the ground state magnetic phases of a classical Ising model with a tunable longitudinal magnetic field using a system of 6 to 10 atomic ion spins. Due to the long-range Ising interactions, the various ground state spin configurations are separated by multiple first-order phase transitions, which in our zero temperature system cannot be driven by thermal fluctuations. We instead use a transverse magnetic field as a quantum catalyst to observe the first steps of the complete fractal devil's staircase, which emerges in the thermodynamic limit and can be mapped to a large number of many-body and energy-optimization problems.

id: 1303.7013
title: Quantum percolation and transition point of a directed discrete-time quantum walk
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar, Th. Busch
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures ; Published version
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 6583 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7013
abstract: Quantum percolation describes the problem of a quantum particle moving through a disordered system. While certain similarities to classical percolation exist, the quantum case has additional complexity due to the possibility of Anderson localisation. Here, we consider a directed discrete-time quantum walk as a model to study quantum percolation of a two-state particle on a two-dimensional lattice. Using numerical analysis we determine the fraction of connected edges required (transition point) in the lattice for the two-state particle to percolate with finite (non-zero) probability for three fundamental lattice geometries, finite square lattice, honeycomb lattice, and nanotube structure and show that it tends towards unity for increasing lattice sizes. To support the numerical results we also use a continuum approximation to analytically derive the expression for the percolation probability for the case of the square lattice and show that it agrees with the numerically obtained results for the discrete case. Beyond the fundamental interest to understand the dynamics of a two-state particle on a lattice (network) with disconnected vertices, our study has the potential to shed light on the transport dynamics in various quantum condensed matter systems and the construction of quantum information processing and communication protocols.

id: 1303.7020
title: Symmetries of Codeword Stabilized Quantum Codes
authors: Salman Beigi, Jianxin Chen, Markus Grassl, Zhengfeng Ji, Qiang Wang, Bei Zeng
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure. Accepted by TQC 2013. Version 2: Funding information added; typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7020
abstract: Symmetry is at the heart of coding theory. Codes with symmetry, especially cyclic codes, play an essential role in both theory and practical applications of classical error-correcting codes. Here we examine symmetry properties for codeword stabilized (CWS) quantum codes, which is the most general framework for constructing quantum error-correcting codes known to date. A CWS code Q can be represented by a self-dual additive code S and a classical code C, i.,e., Q=(S,C), however this representation is in general not unique. We show that for any CWS code Q with certain permutation symmetry, one can always find a self-dual additive code S with the same permutation symmetry as Q such that Q=(S,C). As many good CWS codes have been found by starting from a chosen S, this ensures that when trying to find CWS codes with certain permutation symmetry, the choice of S with the same symmetry will suffice. A key step for this result is a new canonical representation for CWS codes, which is given in terms of a unique decomposition as union stabilizer codes. For CWS codes, so far mainly the standard form (G,C) has been considered, where G is a graph state. We analyze the symmetry of the corresponding graph of G, which in general cannot possess the same permutation symmetry as Q. We show that it is indeed the case for the toric code on a square lattice with translational symmetry, even if its encoding graph can be chosen to be translational invariant.

id: 1303.7047
title: Digital three-state adiabatic passage
authors: Jesse A. Vaitkus, Andrew D. Greentree
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063820 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7047
abstract: We explore protocols for three-state adiabatic passage where the tunnel matrix elements are varied digitally, rather than smoothly as is the case with conventional adiabatic passage. In particular, we focus on the STIRAP and related three-state schemes where the control is applied stepwise, with either equal spaced levels for the tunnel matrix elements or uniform pulse lengths. Our results show that the evolution typically shows the hallmarks of conventional adiabatic passage, although with additional resonances exhibiting no state transfer.

id: 1303.7053
title: Non-Hermitian $\cal PT$-symmetric quantum mechanics of relativistic particles with the restriction of mass
authors: V.N.Rodionov
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7053
abstract: The modified Dirac equations for the massive particles with the replacement of the physical mass $m$ with the help of the relation $m\rightarrow m_1+ \gamma_5 m_2$ are investigated. It is shown that for a fermion theory with a $\gamma_5$-mass term, the limiting of the mass specter by the value $ m_{max}= {m_1}^2/2m_2$ takes place. In this case the different regions of the unbroken $\cal PT$ symmetry may be expressed by means of the restriction of the physical mass $m\leq m_{max}$. It should be noted that in the approach which was developed by C.Bender et al. for the $\cal PT$-symmetric version of the massive Thirring model with $\gamma_5$-mass term, the region of the unbroken $\cal PT$-symmetry was found in the form $m_1\geq m_2$ \cite{ft12}. However on the basis of the mass limitation $m\leq m_{max}$ we obtain that the domain $m_1\geq m_2$ consists of two different parametric sectors: i) $0\leq m_2 \leq m_1/\sqrt{2}$ -this values of mass parameters $m_1,m_2$ correspond to the traditional particles for which in the limit $m_{max}\rightarrow \infty$ the modified models are converting to the ordinary Dirac theory with the physical mass $m$; ii)$m_1/\sqrt{2}\leq m_2 \leq m_1$ - this is the case of the unusual particles for which equations of motion does not have a limit, when $m_{max}\rightarrow \infty$. The presence of this possibility lets hope for that in Nature indeed there are some "exotic fermion fields". As a matter of fact the formulated criterions may be used as a major test in the process of the division of considered models into ordinary and exotic fermion theories. It is tempting to think that the quanta of the exotic fermion field have a relation to the structure of the "dark matter".

id: 1303.7063
title: Statistics of a quantum-state-transfer Hamiltonian in the presence of disorder
authors: Georgios M. Nikolopoulos
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042311 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7063
abstract: We present a statistical analysis on the performance of a protocol for the faithful transfer of a quantum state in finite qubit or spin chains, in the presence of diagonal and off-diagonal disorder. It is shown that the average-state fidelity, typically employed in the literature for the quantification of the transfer, may overestimate considerably the performance of the protocol in a single realization, leading to faulty conclusions about the success of the transfer.

id: 1303.7101
title: Multi-slit interferometry and commuting functions of position and momentum
authors: J.C.G. Biniok, P. Busch
comments: Version 2 contains minor corrections and improvements and a new reference to to relevant work on modular variables by Y. Aharonov et al
journal: Physical Review A 87 (2013) 062116 (7 pp.)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7101
abstract: In a recent, modified double-pinhole diffraction experiment the existence of an interference pattern was established indirectly along with a near-perfect imaging of the double pinhole. Our theoretical analysis shows that the experiment constitutes a preparation of a quantum state that is, to a good approximation, a joint eigenstate of commuting functions of position and momentum. Gaining information about the momentum distribution by means of the particular experimental setup is thus possible with negligible impact on the position distribution. Furthermore, we construct explicitly a class of states simultaneously localised on periodic sets in position and momentum space, which are therefore eigenstates of the observables being measured jointly (to a good approximation) in multi-slit interferometry. Finally, we show that with an appropriate change of settings the experiment demonstrates the mutual disturbance of position and momentum measurements.

id: 1303.7138
title: Unequivocal differentiation of coherent and chaotic light through interferometric photon correlation measurements
authors: Armand Lebreton, Izo Abram, R¨¦my Braive, Isabelle Sagnes, Isabelle Robert-Philip, Alexios Beveratos
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7138
abstract: We present a novel experimental technique that can differentiate unequivocally between chaotic light and coherent light with amplitude fluctuations, and thus permits to characterize unambiguously the output of a laser. This technique consists of measuring the second-order intensity cross-correlation at the outputs of an unbalanced Michelson interferometer. It is applied to a chaotic light source and to the output of a semiconductor nanolaser whose "standard" intensity correlation function above-threshold displays values compatible with a mixture of coherent and chaotic light. Our experimental results demonstrate that the output of such lasers is not partially chaotic but is indeed a coherent state with amplitude fluctuations.

id: 1303.7154
title: Quantum state tomography from sequential measurement of two variables in a single setup
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures, revtex4-1. Comments welcome. v2: sacrificed generality to clarity; v3: minor changes, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042114 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7154
abstract: We demonstrate that the task of determining an unknown quantum state can be accomplished efficiently by making a sequential measurement of two observables $\hat{A}$ and $\hat{B}$, provided that the two observables are chosen in such a way that their eigenstates may form bases connected by a discrete Fourier transform. The state can be pure or mixed, the dimension of the Hilbert space and the coupling strength are arbitrary, and the experimental setup is fixed. The concept of Moyal quasicharacteristic function is introduced for finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces.

id: 1303.7187
title: Role of the phase-matching condition in non-degenerate four-wave mixing in hot vapors for the generation of squeezed states of light
authors: M. T. Turnbull, P. G. Petrov, C. S. Embrey, A. M. Marino, V. Boyer
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7187
abstract: Non-degenerate forward four-wave mixing in hot atomic vapors has been shown to produce strong quantum correlations between twin beams of light [McCormick et al, Opt. Lett. 32, 178 (2007)], in a configuration which minimizes losses by absorption. In this paper, we look at the role of the phase-matching condition in the trade-off that occurs between the efficiency of the nonlinear process and the absorption of the twin beams. To this effect, we develop a semi-classical model by deriving the atomic susceptibilities in the relevant double-lambda configuration and by solving the classical propagation of the twin-beam fields for parameters close to those found in typical experiments. These theoretical results are confirmed by a simple experimental study of the nonlinear gain experienced by the twin beams as a function of the phase mismatch. The model shows that the amount of phase mismatch is key to the realization of the physical conditions in which the absorption of the twin beams is minimized while the cross-coupling between the twin beams is maintained at the level required for the generation of strong quantum correlations. The optimum is reached when the four-wave mixing process is not fully phase matched.

id: 1303.7222
title: Multi-setting Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger theorem
authors: Junghee Ryu, Changhyoup Lee, Zhi Yin, Ramij Rahaman, Dimitris G. Angelakis, Jinhyoung Lee, Marek ?ukowski
comments: 5 pages, journal version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7222
abstract: We present a generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) theorem, which involves more than two local measurement settings for some parties, and cannot be reduced to one with less settings. Our results hold for an odd number of parties. We use a set of observables, which are incompatible but share a common eigenstate, here a GHZ state. Such observables are called concurrent. The idea is illustrated with an example of a three-qutrit system and then generalized to systems of higher dimensions, and more parties. The GHZ paradoxes can lead to, e.g., secret sharing protocols.

id: 1303.7229
title: Quantum electrodynamics in a laser and the electron laser collision
authors: Qi-Ren Zhang
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. B Vol. 23, No. 1 (2014) 010306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7229
abstract: Quantum electrodynamics in a laser is formulated, in which the electron-laser interaction is exactly considered, while the interaction of an electron and a single photon is considered by perturbation. The formulation is applied to the electron-laser collisions. The effect of coherence between photons in the laser is therefore fully considered in these collisions. The possibility of $\gamma-$ray laser generation by use of this kind of collision is discussed.

id: 1303.7257
title: Statistical theory of ideal quantum measurement processes
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Roger Balian, Theo M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: revised, extended version. 20 pages revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7257
abstract: A minimalist theory of ideal quantum measurements is presented. The tested system S and the apparatus A are treated as a compound, isolated system, and the process is identified with the establishment of a generalised thermodynamic equilibrium. The results can be found on the level of thermodynamics, with a qualitative account of the relaxation mechanisms, but they can also be derived through detailed dynamic calculations based on standard quantum statistical mechanics. A quantum formalism without interpretation is used, where density operators encode knowledge about properties of a statistical ensemble, and also of its subensembles. The analysis of the measurement involves three steps. The first one deals with the dynamics of the density matrix of S+A associated with a large set of runs; it involves both the disappearance of the off-diagonal blocks (by decoherence or dephasing)and the establishment of correlations between S and the pointer of A in the diagonal blocks. The desired form for this density matrix at the end of the process is thus obtained, under some specified conditions to be fulfilled by the Hamiltonian. However, due to a quantum ambiguity, this is not sufficient to account for the occurrence of a well defined outcome for each individual run of the ensemble. Therefore, in a second step, a stronger result is established, concerning all possible subensembles of runs. Their associated density operators are shown to relax towards the required structure owing to a specific mechanism that acts near the end of the process. In the third step, the equations thus formally obtained are interpreted by means of postulates which relate macrophysics to microphysics and pertain more to A than to S. The properties currently attributed to ideal measurements are thereby recovered most economically, and the status of Born's rule is re-evaluated.

id: 1303.7271
title: Efficient tools for quantum metrology with uncorrelated noise
authors: Jan Kolodynski, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski
comments: 35 pages, 3 figures, 4 tables, to appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 073043 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7271
abstract: Quantum metrology offers an enhanced performance in experiments such as gravitational wave-detection, magnetometry or atomic clocks frequency calibration. The enhancement, however, requires a delicate tuning of relevant quantum features such as entanglement or squeezing. For any practical application the inevitable impact of decoherence needs to be taken into account in order to correctly quantify the ultimate attainable gain in precision. We compare the applicability and the effectiveness of various methods of calculating the ultimate precision bounds resulting from the presence of decoherence. This allows us to put a number of seemingly unrelated concepts into a common framework and arrive at an explicit hierarchy of quantum metrological methods in terms of the tightness of the bounds they provide. In particular, we show a way to extend the techniques originally proposed in Demkowicz-Dobrzanski et al 2012 Nat. Commun. 3 1063, so that they can be efficiently applied not only in the asymptotic but also in the finite-number of particles regime. As a result, we obtain a simple and direct method, yielding bounds that interpolate between the quantum enhanced scaling characteristic for small number of particles and the asymptotic regime, where quantum enhancement amounts to a constant factor improvement. Methods are applied to numerous models including noisy phase and frequency estimation, as well as the estimation of the decoherence strength itself.

id: 1303.7308
title: A simple sufficient condition for the coexistence of quantum effects
authors: Teiko Heinosaari
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 152002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7308
abstract: Two quantum effects are considered coexistent if they can be measured together. It is known that commutativity and comparability are sufficient but not necessary for the coexistence of two effects. We unify those two conditions to a simple but more widely applicable sufficient condition.

id: 1303.7359
title: Light induced crystallization of cold atoms in a thin 1D optical tube
authors: Tobias Grie?er, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7359
abstract: Collective off resonant scattering of coherent light by a cold gas induces long-range interactions via interference of light scattered by different particles. In a 1D configuration these interactions grow particularly strong for particles trapped along an optical nanofiber. We show that there exists a threshold pump laser intensity, above which the gas can be found in a crystalline, selfsustained order. In the nonabsorbing regime we determine the critical condition for the onset of order as well as the forms of particle density and scattered field patterns along the fiber above threshold. Surprisingly, there can coexist multiple stationary solutions with distinct density and field profiles.

id: 1303.7418
title: Coupling of a single NV-center in diamond to a fiber-based microcavity
authors: Roland Albrecht, Alexander Bommer, Christian Deutsch, Jakob Reichel, Christoph Becher
comments: latest version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110 (2013) 243602
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7418
abstract: We report on the coupling of a single Nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in a nanodiamond to a fiber-based microcavity at room temperature. Investigating the very same NV center inside the cavity and in free-space allows to systematically explore a new regime of phonon-assisted cavity feeding. Making use of the NV center's strongly broadened emission, we realize a widely tunable, narrowband single photon source. A master equation model well reproduces our experimental results and predicts a transition into a Purcell-enhanced emission regime at low temperatures.

id: 1303.7432
title: EPR Steering Inequalities from Entropic Uncertainty Relations
authors: James Schneeloch, Curtis J. Broadbent, Stephen P. Walborn, Eric G. Cavalcanti, John C. Howell
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062103 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7432
abstract: We use entropic uncertainty relations to formulate inequalities that witness Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) steering correlations in diverse quantum systems. We then use these inequalities to formulate symmetric EPR-steering inequalities using the mutual information. We explore the differing natures of the correlations captured by one-way and symmetric steering inequalities, and examine the possibility of exclusive one-way steerability in two-qubit states. Furthermore, we show that steering inequalities can be extended to generalized positive operator valued measures (POVMs), and we also derive hybrid-steering inequalities between alternate degrees of freedom.

id: 1303.7435
title: On the security of key distribution based on Johnson-Nyquist noise
authors: Charles H. Bennett, C. Jess Riedel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7435
abstract: We point out that arguments for the security of Kish's noise-based cryptographic protocol have relied on an unphysical no-wave limit, which if taken seriously would prevent any correlation from developing between the users. We introduce a noiseless version of the protocol, also having illusory security in the no-wave limit, to show that noise and thermodynamics play no essential role. Then we prove generally that classical electromagnetic protocols cannot establish a secret key between two parties separated by a spacetime region perfectly monitored by an eavesdropper. We note that the original protocol of Kish is vulnerable to passive time-correlation attacks even in the quasi-static limit. Finally we show that protocols of this type can be secure in practice against an eavesdropper with noisy monitoring equipment. In this case the security is a straightforward consequence of Maurer and Wolf's discovery that key can be distilled by public discussion from correlated random variables in a wide range of situations where the eavesdropper's noise is at least partly independent from the users' noise.

id: 1303.7464
title: Efficient quantification of experimental evidence against local realism
authors: Yanbao Zhang, Scott Glancy, Emanuel Knill
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052119 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7464
abstract: Tests of local realism and their applications aim for very high confidence in their results even in the presence of potentially adversarial effects. For this purpose, one can measure a quantity that reflects the amount of violation of local realism and determine a bound on the probability, according to local realism, of obtaining a violation at least that observed. In general, it is difficult to obtain sufficiently robust and small bounds. Here we describe an efficient protocol for computing such bounds from any set of Bell inequalities for any number of parties, measurement settings, or outcomes. The protocol can be applied to tests of other properties (such as entanglement or dimensionality) that are witnessed by linear inequalities.

id: 1303.7469
title: Beating the standard quantum limit for force sensing with a coupled two-mode optomechanical system
authors: Xunnong Xu, Jacob M. Taylor
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 043848 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7469
abstract: Optomechanics allows the transduction of weak forces to optical fields, with many efforts approaching the standard quantum limit. We consider force-sensing using a mirror-in-the-middle setup and use two coupled cavity modes originated from normal mode splitting for separating pump and probe fields. We find that this two-mode model can be reduced to an effective single-mode model, if we drive the pump mode strongly and detect the signal from the weak probe mode. The optimal force detection sensitivity at zero frequency (DC) is calculated and we show that one can beat the standard quantum limit by driving the cavity close to instability. The best sensitivity achievable is limited by mechanical thermal noise and by optical losses. We also find that the bandwidth where optimal sensitivity is maintained is proportional to the cavity damping in the resolved sideband regime. Finally, the squeezing spectrum of the output signal is calculated, and it shows almost perfect squeezing at DC is possible by using a high quality factor and low thermal phonon-number mechanical oscillator.

id: 1303.0021
title: Two-qubit quantum gates for defect qubits in diamond and similar systems
authors: Dmitry Solenov, Sophia E. Economou, Thomas L. Reinecke
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 161403(R) (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0021
abstract: We propose a fast, scalable all-optical design for arbitrary two-qubit operations for defect qubits in diamond (NV centers) and in silicon carbide, which are promising candidates for room temperature quantum computing. The interaction between qubits is carried out by microcavity photons. The approach uses constructive interference from higher energy excited states activated by optical control. In this approach the cavity mode remains off-resonance with the directly accessible optical transitions used for initialization and readout. All quantum operations are controlled by near-resonant narrow-bandwidth optical pulses. We perform full quantum numerical modeling of the proposed gates and show that high-fidelity operations can be obtained with realistic parameters.

id: 1303.0037
title: Multiple light scattering on the F = 1 - F' = 0 transition in a cold and high density 87Rb vapor
authors: S. Balik, A.L. Win, M.D. Havey, A.S. Sheremet, I.M. Sokolov, D.V. Kupriyanov
comments: Submitted to Journal of Modern Optics, Proceedings of the 2013 Colloquium on the Physics of Quantum Electrons
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 61, 77 - 84 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0037
abstract: We report an experimental study of near resonance light scattering on the $F = 1 \rightarrow F' = 0$ component of the $D_2$ line in atomic $^{87}Rb$. Experiments are performed on spatially bi-Gaussian ultracold gas samples having peak densities ranging from about $5 \cdot 10^{12} - 5 \cdot 10^{13}$ atoms/cm$^{3}$ and for a range of resonance saturation parameters and detunings from atomic resonance. Time resolution of the scattered light intensity reveals dynamics of multiple light scattering, optical pumping, and saturation effects. The experimental results in steady-state are compared qualitatively with theoretical models of the light scattering process. The steady-state line shape of the excitation spectrum is in good qualitative agreement with these models.

id: 1303.0061
title: Magnetic field dependence of Raman coupling in Alkali atoms
authors: Ran Wei, Erich J. Mueller
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 87, 042514 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0061
abstract: We calculate the magnetic field dependence of Rabi rates for two-photon optical Raman processes in alkali atoms. Due to a decoupling of the nuclear and electronic spins, these rates fall with increasing field. At the typical magnetic fields of alkali atom Feshbach resonances (B\sim 200G-1200G), the Raman rates have the same order of magnitude as their zero field values, suggesting one can combine Raman-induced gauge fields/spin-orbital coupling with strong Feshbach-induced interactions. The exception is $^6$Li, where there is a factor of 7 suppression in the Raman coupling, compared to its already small zero-field value.

id: 1303.0080
title: A scripted control system for autonomous hardware timed experiments
authors: P. T. Starkey, C. J. Billington, S. P. Johnstone, M. Jasperse, K. Helmerson, L. D. Turner, R. P. Anderson
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures. Copyright 2013 American Institute of Physics. This article may be downloaded for personal use only. Any other use requires prior permission of the author and the American Institute of Physics
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 84, 085111 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0080
abstract: We present the labscript suite, an open-source experiment control system for automating shot-based experiments and their analysis. Experiments are composed as Python code, which is used to produce low-level hardware instructions. They are queued up and executed on the hardware in real time, synchronized by a pseudoclock. Experiment parameters are manipulated graphically, and analysis routines are run as new data is acquired. With this system, we can easily automate exploration of parameter spaces, including closed-loop optimization.

id: 1303.0154
title: Robust Estimation of Optical Phase Varying as a Continuous Resonant Process
authors: Shibdas Roy, Ian R. Petersen, Elanor H. Huntington
comments: 5 pages, 10 figures, Proceedings of the 2013 Multi-Conference on Systems and Control
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0154
abstract: It is well-known that adaptive homodyne estimation of continuously varying optical phase provides superior accuracy in the phase estimate as compared to adaptive or non-adaptive static estimation. However, most phase estimation schemes rely on precise knowledge of the underlying parameters of the system under measurement, and performance deteriorates significantly with changes in these parameters; hence it is desired to develop robust estimation techniques immune to such uncertainties. In related works, we have already shown how adaptive homodyne estimation can be made robust to uncertainty in an underlying parameter of the phase varying as a simplistic Ornstein-Uhlenbeck stochastic noise process. Here, we demonstrate robust phase estimation for a more complicated resonant noise process using a guaranteed cost robust filter.

id: 1303.0167
title: Randomized Low-Memory Singular Value Projection
authors: Stephen Becker, Volkan Cevher, Anastasios Kyrillidis
comments: 13 pages. This version has a revised theorem and new numerical experiments
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Numerical Analysis (cs.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0167
abstract: Affine rank minimization algorithms typically rely on calculating the gradient of a data error followed by a singular value decomposition at every iteration. Because these two steps are expensive, heuristic approximations are often used to reduce computational burden. To this end, we propose a recovery scheme that merges the two steps with randomized approximations, and as a result, operates on space proportional to the degrees of freedom in the problem. We theoretically establish the estimation guarantees of the algorithm as a function of approximation tolerance. While the theoretical approximation requirements are overly pessimistic, we demonstrate that in practice the algorithm performs well on the quantum tomography recovery problem.

id: 1303.0210
title: Direct Proof of Security of Wegman-Carter Authentication with Partially Known Key
authors: Aysajan Abidin, Jan-?ke Larsson
comments: 15 pages
journal: Quantum Information Processing, 13, 2155-2170, 2014
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0210
abstract: Information-theoretically secure (ITS) authentication is needed in Quantum Key Distribution (QKD). In this paper, we study security of an ITS authentication scheme proposed by Wegman & Carter, in the case of partially known authentication key. This scheme uses a new authentication key in each authentication attempt, to select a hash function from an Almost Strongly Universal$_2$ hash function family. The partial knowledge of the attacker is measured as the trace distance between the authentication key distribution and the uniform distribution; this is the usual measure in QKD. We provide direct proofs of security of the scheme, when using partially known key, first in the information-theoretic setting and then in terms of witness indistinguishability as used in the Universal Composability (UC) framework. We find that if the authentication procedure has a failure probability $\epsilon$ and the authentication key has an $\epsilon'$ trace distance to the uniform, then under ITS, the adversary's success probability conditioned on an authentic message-tag pair is only bounded by $\epsilon+|\mT|\epsilon'$, where $|\mT|$ is the size of the set of tags. Furthermore, the trace distance between the authentication key distribution and the uniform increases to $|\mT|\epsilon'$ after having seen an authentic message-tag pair. Despite this, we are able to prove directly that the authenticated channel is indistinguishable from an (ideal) authentic channel (the desired functionality), except with probability less than $\epsilon+\epsilon'$. This proves that the scheme is ($\epsilon+\epsilon'$)-UC-secure, without using the composability theorem.

id: 1303.0297
title: Single-qubit gates in two steps with rotation axes in a single plane
authors: Yun-Pil Shim, Jianjia Fei, Sangchul Oh, Xuedong Hu, Mark Friesen
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0297
abstract: Any single-qubit unitary operation or quantum gate can be considered a rotation. Typical experimental implementations of single-qubit gates involve two or three fixed rotation axes, and up to three rotation steps. Here we show that, if the rotation axes can be tuned arbitrarily in a fixed plane, then two rotation steps are sufficient for implementing a single-qubit gate, and one rotation step is sufficient for implementing a state transformation. The results are relevant for "exchange-only" logical qubits encoded in three-spin blocks, which are important for universal quantum computation in decoherence free subsystems and subspaces.

id: 1303.0298
title: A Sufficient Condition for Partial Ensemble Controllability of Bilinear Schr?dinger Equations with Bounded Coupling Terms
authors: Thomas Chambrion
comments: 6 pages, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0298
abstract: This note presents a sufficient condition for partial approximate ensemble controllability of a set of bilinear conservative quantum systems in an infinite dimensional Hilbert space. The proof relies on classical geometric and averaging control techniques applied on finite dimensional approximation of the infinite dimensional system. The results are illustrated with the planar rotation of a linear molecule.

id: 1303.0441
title: Numerical investigations of the Schwinger model and selected quantum spin models
authors: Marcin Szyniszewski
comments: 86 pages, 56 figures, Master's Thesis
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0441
abstract: Numerical investigations of the XY model, the Heisenberg model and the J-J' Heisenberg model are conducted, using the exact diagonalisation, the numerical renormalisation and the density matrix renormalisation group approach. The low-lying energy levels are obtained and finite size scaling is performed to estimate the bulk limit values. The results are found to be consistent with the exact values. The DMRG results are found to be most promising. The Schwinger model is also studied using the exact diagonalisation and the strong coupling expansion. The massless, the massive model and the model with a background electric field are explored. Ground state energy, scalar and vector particle masses and order parameters are examined. The achieved values are observed to be consistent with previous results and theoretical predictions. Path to the future studies is outlined.

id: 1303.0559
title: Transport Properties for Triangular Barriers in Graphene
authors: Abderrahim El Mouhafid, Ahmed Jellal
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures, clarifications and reference added, misprints corrected
journal: J Low Temp Phys 173 (2013) 264
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0559
abstract: We theoretically study the electronic transport properties of Dirac fermions through one and double triangular barriers in graphene. Using the transfer matrix method, we determine the transmission, conductance and Fano factor. They are obtained to be various parameters dependent such as well width, barrier height and barrier width. Therefore, different discussions are given and comparison with the previous significant works is done. In particular, it is shown that at Dirac point the Dirac fermions always own a minimum conductance associated with a maximum Fano factor and change their behaviors in an oscillatory way (irregularly periodical tunneling peaks) when the potential of applied voltage is increased.

id: 1303.0578
title: Quantum Filtering in Coherent States
authors: John Gough, Claus Kostler
comments: 
journal: Communications on Stochastic analysis, Vol 4, number 4, (2010) 505-521
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0578
abstract: We derive the form of the Belavkin-Kushner-Stratonovich equation describing the filtering of a continuous observed quantum system via non-demolition measurements when the statistics of the input field used for the indirect measurement are in a general coherent state.

id: 1303.0590
title: Inhomogeneous dynamic nuclear polarization and suppression of electron-polarization decay in a quantum dot
authors: Na Wu, Wenkui Ding, Anqi Shi, Wenxian Zhang
comments: 10 pages, 12 eps figures, in Rev. Tex 4 format
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0590
abstract: We investigate the dynamic nuclear polarization process by frequently injecting polarized electron spins into a quantum dot. Due to the suppression of the direct dipolar and indirect electron-mediated nuclear spin interactions, by the frequently injected electron spins, the analytical predictions under the independent spin approximation agree well with quantum numerical simulations. Our results show that the acquired nuclear polarization is highly inhomogeneous, proportional to the square of the local electron-nuclear hyperfine interaction constant, if the injection frequency is high. Utilizing the inhomogeneously polarized nuclear spins as an initial state, we further show that the electron-polarization decay time can be extended 100 times even at a relatively low nuclear polarization (<20%), without much suppression of the fluctuation of the Overhauser field. Our results lay the foundation for future investigations of the effect of DNP in more complex spin systems, such as double quantum dots and nitrogen vacancy centers in diamonds.

id: 1303.0630
title: Exact conservation and breaking of pseudospin symmetry in single particle resonant states
authors: Bing-Nan Lu, En-Guang Zhao, Shan-Gui Zhou
comments: 5 pages, 1 figures; invited talk at the 8th China-Japan Joint Nuclear Physics Symposium (CJJNPS 2012), Beijing, China, 15-19 October 2012
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1533, 63-69 (2013)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0630
abstract: In this contribution we present some results on the study of pseudospin symmetry (PSS) in single particle resonant states. The PSS is a relativistic dynamical symmetry connected with the small component of the nucleon Dirac wave function. Many efforts have been made to study this symmetry in bound states. We recently gave a rigorous justification of the PSS in single particle resonant states by examining the zeros of Jost functions corresponding to the small components of the radial Dirac wave functions and phase shifts of continuum states [1, Phys. Rev. Lett. 109 (2012) 072501]. We have shown that the PSS in single particle resonant states in nuclei is conserved when the attractive scalar and repulsive vector potentials have the same magnitude but opposite sign. Examples of exact conservation and breaking of this symmetry in single particle resonances are given for spherical square-well and Woods-Saxon potentials.

id: 1303.0641
title: Landau-Zener tunneling in 2D periodic structures in the presence of a gauge field II: Electric breakdown
authors: D.N.Maksimov, I.Yu.Chesnokov, D.V.Makarov, A.R.Kolovsky
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. {\bf 46} (2013), 145302 (6 pages)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0641
abstract: We analyze dynamics of a quantum particle in a square lattice in the Hall configuration beyond the single-band approximation. For vanishing gauge (magnetic) field this dynamics is defined by the inter-band Landau-Zener tunneling, which is responsible for the phenomenon known as the electric breakdown. We show that in the presence of a gauge field this phenomenon is absent, at least, in its common sense. Instead, the Landau-Zener tunneling leads to appearance of a finite current which flows in the direction orthogonal to the vector of a potential (electric) field.

id: 1303.0688
title: Entanglement and Particle Identity: A Unifying Approach
authors: A. P. Balachandran, T. R. Govindarajan, Amilcar R. de Queiroz, A. F. Reyes-Lega
comments: Published version. Based on arxiv 1205.2882
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 080503 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0688
abstract: It has been known for some years that entanglement entropy obtained from partial trace does not provide the correct entanglement measure when applied to systems of identical particles. Several criteria have been proposed that have the drawback of being different according to whether one is dealing with fermions, bosons or distinguishable particles. In this Letter, we give a precise and mathematically natural answer to this problem. Our approach is based on the use of the more general idea of restriction of states to subalgebras. It leads to a novel approach to entanglement, suitable to be used in general quantum systems and specially in systems of identical particles. This settles some recent controversy regarding entanglement for identical particles. The prospects for applications of our criteria are wide-ranging, from spin chains in condensed matter to entropy of black holes.

id: 1303.0733
title: Cavity Optomechanics
authors: Markus Aspelmeyer, Tobias J. Kippenberg, Florian Marquardt
comments: 65 pages, 45 figures, 438 references. We appreciate feedback and comments. Please send those to: optomechanicsrmp@gmail.com. Some overview figures can be found on this http URL
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 86, 1391 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0733
abstract: We review the field of cavity optomechanics, which explores the interaction between electromagnetic radiation and nano- or micromechanical motion. This review covers the basics of optical cavities and mechanical resonators, their mutual optomechanical interaction mediated by the radiation pressure force, the large variety of experimental systems which exhibit this interaction, optical measurements of mechanical motion, dynamical backaction amplification and cooling, nonlinear dynamics, multimode optomechanics, and proposals for future cavity quantum optomechanics experiments. In addition, we describe the perspectives for fundamental quantum physics and for possible applications of optomechanical devices.

id: 1303.0741
title: Operator content of real-space entanglement spectra at conformal critical points
authors: Andreas M. L?uchli
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0741
abstract: We provide numerical evidence that the low-lying part of the entanglement spectrum of a real-space block (i.e. a single interval) of a one-dimensional quantum many body system at a conformal critical point corresponds to the energy spectrum of a boundary conformal field theory (CFT). This correspondence allows to uncover a subset of the operator content of a conformal field theory by inspection of the entanglement spectrum of a single wave function, thus providing important information on a CFT beyond its central charge. As a practical application we show that for many systems described by a compactified boson CFT, one can infer the compactification radius (governing e.g. the power law decay of correlation functions) of the theory in a simple way based on the entanglement spectrum.

id: 1303.0748
title: Quantal corrections to mean-field dynamics including pairing
authors: Denis Lacroix, Danilo Gambacurta, Sakir Ayik
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, To appear in Phys. Rev. C (Rapid communication)
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0748
abstract: Extending the stochastic mean-field model by including pairing, an approach is proposed for describing evolutions of complex many-body systems in terms of an ensemble of Time-Dependent Hartree-Fock Bogoliubov trajectories which is determined by incorporating fluctuations in the initial state. Non-linear evolution of the initial fluctuations provides an approximate description of quantal correlations and fluctuations of collective observables. Since the initial-state fluctuations break the particle-number symmetry, the dynamical description in which pairing correlations play a crucial role is greatly improved as compare to the mean-field evolution. The approach is illustrated for a system of particles governed by a pairing Hamiltonian.

id: 1303.0877
title: Measurement of line widths and permanent electric dipole moment change of the Ce 4f-5d transition in Y_2SiO_5 for a qubit readout scheme in rare-earth ion based quantum computing
authors: Ying Yan, Jenny Karlsson, Lars Rippe, Andreas Walther, Diana Serrano, David Lindgren, Mats-erik Pistol, Stefan Kroll, Philippe Goldner, Lihe Zheng, Jun Xu
comments: 9 figures, 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 184205, 2013
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0877
abstract: In this work the inhomogeneous (zero-phonon line) and homogeneous line widths, and one projection of the permanent electric dipole moment change for the Ce 4f-5d transition in Y_2SiO_5 were measured in order to investigate the possibility for using Ce as a sensor to detect the hyperfine state of a spatially close-lying Pr or Eu ion. The experiments were carried out on Ce doped or Ce-Pr co-doped single Y_2SiO_5 crystals. The homogeneous line width was measured to be about 3 MHz, which is essentially limited by the excited state lifetime. Based on the line width measurements, the oscillator strength, absorption cross section and saturation intensity were calculated to be about 9*10^-7, 5*10^-19 m^2 and 1*10^7 W/m^2, respectively. One projection of the difference in permanent dipole moment, Delt_miu_Ce, between the ground and excited states of the Ce ion was measured as 6.3 * 10^-30 C*m, which is about 26 times as large as that of Pr ions. The measurements done on Ce ions indicate that the Ce ion is a promising candidate to be used as a probe to read out a single qubit ion state for the quantum computing using rare-earth ions.

id: 1303.0931
title: Exchange assisted tunneling and positron annihilation on inner atomic shells
authors: M. G. Kozlov, V. V. Flambaum
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 87, 042511 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0931
abstract: It is known for a long time that the long range asymptotic behavior of the Hartree-Fock orbitals is different from that of the orbitals in the local potential. However, there is no consensus about observable physical effects associated with this asymptotics. Here we argue that weaker decrease of the Hartree-Fock orbitals at large distances is responsible for the positron annihilation on the inner shell electrons, which is observed experimentally.

id: 1303.1027
title: Dymamical Casimir emission from polariton condensates
authors: Selma Koghee, Michiel Wouters
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1027
abstract: We study theoretically the dynamical Casimir effect in an exciton-polariton condensate that is suddenly created by an ultrashort laser pulse at normal incidence. As a consequence of the abrupt change of the quantum vacuum, Bogoliubov excitations are generated. The subsequent evolution, governed by polariton interactions and losses, is studied within a linearized truncted Wigner approximation. We focus in particular on the momentum distribution and spatial coherence. The limiting behavior at large and small momenta is determined analytically. A simple scaling relation for the final condensate depletion as a function of the system parameters is found and the correlation length is shown to depend linearly on the condensate depletion.

id: 1303.1030
title: Integrated Mach-Zehnder interferometer for Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Tarik Berrada, Sandrine van Frank, Robert B¨¹cker, Thorsten Schumm, Jean-Fran?ois Schaff, J?rg Schmiedmayer
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures (including appendix); Nature Communications 4, 2077
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2077
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1030
abstract: Particle-wave duality enables the construction of interferometers for matter waves, which complement optical interferometers in precision measurement devices. This requires the development of atom-optics analogs to beam splitters, phase shifters, and recombiners. Integrating these elements into a single device has been a long-standing goal. Here we demonstrate a full Mach-Zehnder sequence with trapped Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) confined on an atom chip. Particle interactions in our BEC matter waves lead to a non-linearity, absent in photon optics. We exploit it to generate a non-classical state having reduced number fluctuations inside the interferometer. Making use of spatially separated wave packets, a controlled phase shift is applied and read out by a non-adiabatic matter-wave recombiner. We demonstrate coherence times a factor of three beyond what is expected for coherent states, highlighting the potential of entanglement as a resource for metrology. Our results pave the way for integrated quantum-enhanced matter-wave sensors.

id: 1303.1079
title: Anomalous Transport in Sketched Nanostructures at the LaAlO3/SrTiO3 Interface
authors: Guanglei Cheng, Joshua P. Veazey, Patrick Irvin, Cheng Cen1, Daniela F. Bogorin1, Feng Bi, Mengchen Huang, Shicheng Lu, Chung-Wung Bark, Sangwoo Ryu, Kwang-Hwan Cho, Chang-Beom Eom, Jeremy Levy
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 011021 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1079
abstract: The oxide heterostructure LaAlO3/SrTiO3 supports a two-dimensional electron liquid with a variety of competing phases including magnetism, superconductivity and weak antilocalization due to Rashba spin-orbit coupling. Further confinement of this 2D electron liquid to the quasi-one-dimensional regime can provide insight into the underlying physics of this system and reveal new behavior. Here we describe magnetotransport experiments on narrow LaAlO3/SrTiO3 structures created by a conductive atomic force microscope lithography technique. Four-terminal local transport measurements on ~10-nm-wide Hall bar structures yield longitudinal resistances that are comparable to the resistance quantum h/e2 and independent of the channel length. Large nonlocal resistances (as large as 10^4 ohms) are observed in some but not all structures with separations between current and voltage that are large compared to the 2D mean-free path. The nonlocal transport is strongly suppressed by the onset of superconductivity below ~200 mK. The origin of these anomalous transport signatures is not understood, but may arise from coherent transport defined by strong spin-orbit coupling and/or magnetic interactions.

id: 1303.1122
title: Exciton fine-structure splitting of telecom wavelength single quantum dots: statistics and external strain tuning
authors: Luca Sapienza, Ralph N. E. Malein, Christopher E. Kuklewicz, Peter E. Kremer, Kartik Srinivasan, Andrew Griffiths, Edmund Clarke, Ming Gong, Richard J. Warburton, Brian D. Gerardot
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1122
abstract: In a charge tunable device, we investigate the fine structure splitting of neutral excitons in single long-wavelength (1.1\mu m < \lambda < 1.3 \mu m) InGaAs quantum dots as a function of external uniaxial strain. Nominal fine structure splittings between 16 and 136 \mu eV are measured and manipulated. We observe varied response of the splitting to the external strain, including positive and negative tuning slopes, different tuning ranges, and linear and parabolic dependencies, indicating that these physical parameters depend strongly on the unique microscopic structure of the individual quantum dot. To better understand the experimental results, we apply a phenomenological model describing the exciton polarization and fine-structure splitting under uniaxial strain. The model predicts that, with an increased experimental strain tuning range, the fine-structure can be effectively canceled for select telecom wavelength dots using uniaxial strain. These results are promising for the generation of on-demand entangled photon pairs at telecom wavelengths.

id: 1303.1137
title: Observation of Transient Momentum-Space Interference During Scattering of a Condensate From an Optical Barrier
authors: Rockson Chang, Shreyas Potnis, Christopher W. Ellenor, Mirco Siercke, Alex Hayat, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053634, 26 November 2013
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1137
abstract: Scattering theory traditionally deals with the asymptotic behaviour of a system far removed from the actual scattering event. Here we present an experimental study of the one-dimensional scattering of a non-interacting condensate of 87-Rb atoms from a potential barrier in the non-asymptotic regime, for which the collision dynamics are still ongoing. We show that for near-transparent barriers, there are two distinct transient scattering effects that arise and dramatically change the momentum distribution during the collision: a deceleration of wavepacket components in mid-collision, and an interference between incident and transmitted portions of the wavepacket. Both effects lead to the re-distribution of momenta giving rise to a rich interference pattern that can be used to perform reconstruction of the single-particle phase profile.

id: 1303.1188
title: High sensitivity optomechanical reference accelerometer over 10 kHz
authors: Felipe Guzman Cervantes, Lee Kumanchik, Jon Pratt, Jacob Taylor
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters 104, 221111 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Geophysics (physics.geo-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1188
abstract: We present an optically-detected mechanical accelerometer that achieves a sensitivity of 100 ng/rtHz over a bandwidth of 10kHz and is traceable. We have incorporated a Fabry-Perot fiber-optic micro-cavity that is currently capable of measuring the test-mass displacement with sensitivities of 200 am/rtHz, and whose length determination enables traceability to the International System of Units (SI). The compact size and high mQ-product achieved combined with the high sensitivity and simplicity of the implemented optical detection scheme highlight our device and this category of accelerometers, outlining a path for high sensitivity reference acceleration measurements and observations in seismology and gravimetry.

id: 1303.1202
title: On Metaplectic Modular Categories and their applications
authors: Matthew B. Hastings, Chetan Nayak, Zhenghan Wang
comments: Many minor revisions including a definition of simulation in the sense of stabilizer formalism. To appear in Comm. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1202
abstract: For non-abelian simple objects in a unitary modular category, the density of their braid group representations, the #P-hard evaluation of their associated link invariants, and the BQP-completeness of their anyonic quantum computing models are closely related. We systematically study such properties of the non-abelian simple objects in metaplectic modular categories, which are unitary modular categories with fusion rules of SO(m)_2 for an odd integer m \geq 3. The simple objects with quantum dimensions \sqrt{m} have finite image braid group representations, and their link invariants are classically efficient to evaluate. We also provide classically efficient simulation of their braid group representations. These simulations of the braid group representations can be regarded as qudit generalizations of the Knill-Gottesmann theorem for the qubit case. The simple objects of dimension 2 give us a surprising result: while their braid group representations have finite images and are efficiently simulable classically after a generalized localization, their link invariants are #P-hard to evaluate exactly. We sharpen the #P-hardness by showing that any sufficiently accurate approximation of their associated link invariants is already #P-hard.

id: 1303.1256
title: Quantum Gravity Effects in Geodesic Motion and Predictions of Equivalence Principle Violation
authors: Subir Ghosh
comments: Title changed, Universality of Free Fall expt. added, references added, modified version, to appear in CQG
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1256
abstract: We show that the Equivalence Principle (EP) is violated by Quantum Gravity (QG) effects. The predicted violations are compared to experimental observations for Gravitational Redshift, Law of Reciprocal Action and Universality of Free Fall. This allows us to derive explicit bounds for $\beta$ - the QG scale. In our approach, there appears a deviation in the geodesic motion of a particle. This deviation is induced by a non-commutative spacetime, consistent with a Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP). GUP admits the presence of a minimum length scale, that is advocated by QG theories. Remarkably, the GUP induced corrections are quite robust since the bound on $\beta$ obtained by us, {\it{in General Relativity scenario in an essentially classical setting}} of modified geodesic motion, is closely comparable to similar bounds in recent literature \cite{vag}. The latter are computed in purely {\it{quantum}} physics domain in {\it{flat}} spacetime.

id: 1303.1311
title: Dark energy from entanglement entropy
authors: Salvatore Capozziello, Orlando Luongo
comments: Accepted for publication in IJTP
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1311
abstract: We show that quantum decoherence, in the context of observational cosmology, can be connected to the cosmic dark energy. The decoherence signature could be characterized by the existence of quantum entanglement between cosmological eras. As a consequence, the Von Neumann entropy related to the entanglement process, can be compared to the thermodynamical entropy in a homogeneous and isotropic universe. The corresponding cosmological models are compatible with the current observational bounds being able to reproduce viable equations of state without introducing {\it a priori} any cosmological constant. In doing so, we investigate two cases, corresponding to two suitable cosmic volumes, $V\propto a^3$ and $V\propto H^{-3}$, and find two models which fairly well approximate the current cosmic speed up. The existence of dark energy can be therefore reinterpreted as a quantum signature of entanglement, showing that the cosmological constant represents a limiting case of a more complicated model derived from the quantum decoherence.

id: 1303.1362
title: High-order harmonic generation from field-distorted orbitals
authors: Maciej Dominik ?piewanowski, Adam Etches, Lars Bojer Madsen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1362
abstract: We investigate the effect on high-order harmonic generation of the distortion of molecular orbitals by the driving laser field. Calculations for high-order harmonic generation including orbital distortion are performed for N2. Our results allow us to suggest that field-distortion is the reason why the two-center interference minimum has never been observed experimentally in N2. We propose experimental parameters which should allow an observation of the two-center interference minimum.

id: 1303.1376
title: Control of beam propagation in optically written waveguides beyond the paraxial approximation
authors: L. Zhang, T. N. Dey, J. Evers
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1376
abstract: Beam propagation beyond the paraxial approximation is studied in an optically written waveguide structure. The waveguide structure that leads to diffractionless light propagation, is imprinted on a medium consisting of a five-level atomic vapor driven by an incoherent pump and two coherent spatially dependent control and plane-wave fields. We first study propagation in a single optically written waveguide, and find that the paraxial approximation does not provide an accurate description of the probe propagation. We then employ coherent control fields such that two parallel and one tilted Gaussian beams produce a branched waveguide structure. The tilted beam allows selective steering of the probe beam into different branches of the waveguide structure. The transmission of the probe beam for a particular branch can be improved by changing the width of the titled Gaussian control beam as well as the intensity of the spatially dependent incoherent pump field.

id: 1303.1453
title: Rate of tunneling nonequilibrium quasiparticles in superconducting qubits
authors: Mohammad H. Ansari
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, minor revision
journal: Supercond. Sci. Technol. 28 (2015) 045005
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1453
abstract: In superconducting qubits the lifetime of quantum states cannot be prolonged arbitrarily by decreasing temperature. At low temperature quasiparticles tunneling between electromagnetic environment and superconducting islands takes the condensate state out of equilibrium due to charge imbalance. We obtain the tunneling rate from a phenomenological model of non-equilibrium, where nonequilibrium quasiparticle tunnelling stimulates a temperature-dependent chemical potential shift in superconductor. As a result we obtain a non-monotonic behavior for relaxation rate as function of temperature. Depending on the fabrication parameters for some qubits the lowest tunneling rate of nonequilibrium quasiparticles can take place only near the onset temperature below which nonequilibrium quasiparticles dominate over equilibrium one. Our theory also indicates that such tunnelings can influence the probability of transitions in qubits through a coupling to the zero-point energy of phase fluctuations.

id: 1303.1660
title: On the Aharonov-Casher scattering in a CPT-odd Lorentz-violating background
authors: F. M. Andrade, E. O. Silva, T. Prud¨ºncio, C. Filgueiras
comments: 14 pages, published version. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1212.1944
journal: J. Phys. G: Nucl. Part. Phys. 40 075007 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1660
abstract: The effects of a Lorentz symmetry violating background vector on the Aharonov-Casher scattering in the nonrelativistic limit is considered. By using the self-adjoint extension method we found that there is an additional scattering for any value of the self-adjoint extension parameter and non-zero energy bound states for negative values of this parameter. Expressions for the energy bound states, phase-shift and the scattering matrix are explicitly determined in terms of the self-adjoint extension parameter. The expression obtained for the scattering amplitude reveals that the helicity is not conserved in this scenario.

id: 1303.1666
title: Persistence of equilibrium states in an oscillating double-well potential
authors: H. Jiang, H. Susanto, T.M. Benson, K.A. Cliffe
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013828 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1666
abstract: We investigate numerically parametrically driven coupled nonlinear Schrodinger equations modelling the dynamics of coupled wavefields in a periodically oscillating double-well potential. The equations describe among other things two coupled periodically-curved optical waveguides with Kerr nonlinearity or horizontally shaken Bose-Einstein condensates in a double-well magnetic trap. In particular, we study the persistence of equilibrium states of the undriven system due to the presence of the parametric drive. Using numerical continuations of periodic orbits and calculating the corresponding Floquet multipliers, we find that the drive can (de)stabilize a continuation of an equilibrium state indicated by the change of the (in)stability of the orbit. Hence, we show that parametric drives can provide a powerful control to nonlinear (optical or matter wave) field tunneling. Analytical approximations based on an averaging method are presented. Using perturbation theory the influence of the drive on the symmetry breaking bifurcation point is discussed.

id: 1303.1683
title: Mode Competition in Dual-Mode Quantum Dots Semiconductor Microlaser
authors: Laurent Chusseau, Fabrice Philippe, P. Viktorovitch, Xavier Letartre
comments: First draft of a paper submitted to Phys Rev A. This version includes an extended discussion about dual-mode lasers and recall some known results about stability. Extended bibliography
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1683
abstract: This paper describes the modeling of quantum dots lasers with the aim of assessing the conditions for stable cw dual-mode operation when the mode separation lies in the THz range. Several possible models suited for InAs quantum dots in InP barriers are analytically evaluated, in particular quantum dots electrically coupled through a direct exchange of excitation by the wetting layer or quantum dots optically coupled through the homogeneous broadening of their optical gain. A stable dual-mode regime is shown possible in all cases when quantum dots are used as active layer whereas a gain medium of quantum well or bulk type inevitably leads to bistable behavior. The choice of a quantum dots gain medium perfectly matched the production of dual-mode lasers devoted to THz generation by photomixing.

id: 1303.1687
title: Quantum states of the bouncing universe
authors: Jean Pierre Gazeau, Jakub Mielczarek, Wlodzimierz Piechocki
comments: 18 pages, 19 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1687
abstract: In this paper we study quantum dynamics of the bouncing cosmological model. We focus on the model of the flat Friedman-Robertson-Walker universe with a free scalar field. The bouncing behavior, which replaces classical singularity, appears due to the modification of general relativity along the methods of loop quantum cosmology. We show that there exist a unitary transformation that enables to describe the system as a free particle with Hamiltonian equal to canonical momentum. We examine properties of the various quantum states of the Universe: boxcar state, standard coherent state, and soliton-like state, as well as Schr{\"o}dinger's cat states constructed from these states. Characteristics of the states such as quantum moments and Wigner functions are investigated. We show that each of these states have, for some range of parameters, a proper semiclassical limit fulfilling the correspondence principle. Decoherence of the superposition of two universes is described and possible interpretations in terms of triad orientation and Belinsky-Khalatnikov-Lifshitz conjecture are given. Some interesting features regarding the area of the negative part of the Wigner function have emerged.

id: 1303.1839
title: Simultaneous Spin-Charge Relaxation in Double Quantum Dots
authors: V. Srinivasa, K. C. Nowack, M. Shafiei, L. M. K. Vandersypen, J. M. Taylor
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Supplemental Material (2 pages, 2 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1839
abstract: We investigate phonon-induced spin and charge relaxation mediated by spin-orbit and hyperfine interactions for a single electron confined within a double quantum dot. A simple toy model incorporating both direct decay to the ground state of the double dot and indirect decay via an intermediate excited state yields an electron spin relaxation rate that varies non-monotonically with the detuning between the dots. We confirm this model with experiments performed on a GaAs double dot, demonstrating that the relaxation rate exhibits the expected detuning dependence and can be electrically tuned over several orders of magnitude. Our analysis suggests that spin-orbit mediated relaxation via phonons serves as the dominant mechanism through which the double-dot electron spin-flip rate varies with detuning.

id: 1303.1884
title: Entanglement entropy from the holographic stress tensor
authors: Arpan Bhattacharyya, Aninda Sinha
comments: 10 pages. v3: many changes. Observation that the RT area functional arises as a counterterm to regularize the stress tensor added. Discussion on Euclidean methods for computing EE added. v4: version to appear in CQG
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 30 (2013) 235032
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1884
abstract: We consider entanglement entropy in the context of gauge/gravity duality for conformal field theories in even dimensions. The holographic prescription due to Ryu and Takayanagi (RT) leads to an equation describing how the entangling surface extends into the bulk geometry. We show that setting to zero the time-time component of the Brown-York stress tensor evaluated on the co-dimension one entangling surface, leads to the same equation. By considering a spherical entangling surface as an example, we observe that Euclidean action methods in AdS/CFT will lead to the RT area functional arising as a counterterm needed to regularize the stress tensor. We present arguments leading to a justification for the minimal area prescription.

id: 1303.1947
title: Time-dependent density functional theory for many-electron systems interacting with cavity photons
authors: I. V. Tokatly
comments: 4+ pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 233001 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1947
abstract: Time-dependent (current) density functional theory for many-electron systems strongly coupled to quantized electromagnetic modes of a microcavity is proposed. It is shown that the electron-photon wave function is a unique functional of the electronic (current) density and the expectation values of photonic coordinates. The Kohn-Sham system is constructed, which allows to calculate the above basic variables by solving selfconsistent equations for noninteracting particles. We suggest possible approximations for the exchange-correlation potentials and discuss implications of this approach for the theory of open quantum systems.

id: 1303.2046
title: Excitation energy transfer efficiency: equivalence of transient and stationary setting and the absence of non-Markovian effects
authors: Simon Jesenko, Marko Znidaric
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 138, 174103 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2046
abstract: We analyze efficiency of excitation energy transfer in photosynthetic complexes in transient and stationary setting. In the transient setting the absorption process is modeled as an individual event resulting in a subsequent relaxation dynamics. In the stationary setting the absorption is a continuous stationary process, leading to the nonequilibrium steady state. We show that, as far as the efficiency is concerned, both settings can be considered to be the same, as they result in almost identical efficiency. We also show that non-Markovianity has no effect on the resulting efficiency, i.e., corresponding Markovian dynamics results in identical efficiency. Even more, if one maps dynamics to appropriate classical rate equations, the same efficiency as in quantum case is obtained.

id: 1303.2051
title: Physics behind the minimum of relative entropy measures for correlations
authors: K. Held, N. Mauser
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, final version as to appear European Physical Journal B
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 86, 328 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2051
abstract: The relative entropy of a correlated state and an uncorrelated reference state is a reasonable measure for the degree of correlations. A key question is however which uncorrelated state to compare to. The relative entropy becomes minimal for the uncorrelated reference state that has the same one-particle density matrix as the correlated state. Hence, this particular measure, coined nonfreeness, is unique and reasonable. We demonstrate that for relevant physical situations, such as finite temperatures or a correlation enhanced orbital splitting, other choices of the uncorrelated state, even educated guesses, overestimate correlations.

id: 1303.2074
title: An analytical continuation approach for evaluating emission lineshapes of molecular aggregates and the adequacy of multichromophoric F?rster theory
authors: Leonardo Banchi, Gianluca Costagliola, Akihito Ishizaki, Paolo Giorda
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2074
abstract: In large photosynthetic chromophore-protein complexes not all chromophores are coupled strongly, and thus the situation is well described by formation of delocalized states in certain domains of strongly coupled chromophores. In order to describe excitation energy transfer among different domains without performing extensive numerical calculations,one of the most popular techniques is a generalization of Forster theory to multichromophoric aggregates (generalized Forster theory) proposed by Sumi [J.Phys.Chem.B,103,252(1999)] and Scholes and Fleming [J.Phys.Chem.B 104,1854(2000)]. The aim of this paper is twofold. In the first place, by means of analytic continuation and a time convolutionless quantum master equation approach, a theory of emission lineshape of multichromophoric systems or molecular aggregates is proposed. In the second place,a comprehensive framework that allows for a clear,compact and effective study of the multichromophoric approach in the full general version proposed by Jang, Newton and Silbey [Phys. Rev. Lett.,92,218301,(2004)] is developed. We apply the present theory to simple paradigmatic systems and we show: the effectiveness of time-convolutionless techniques in deriving lineshape operators; how the multichromophoric approach can give significant improvements in the determination of energy transfer rates in particular when the systems under study are not the purely Forster regime. The presented scheme allows for an effective implementation of the multichromophoric Forster approach which may be of use for simulating energy transfer dynamics in large photosynthetic aggregates, for which massive computational resources are usually required. Furthermore,our method allows for a systematic comparison of multichromophoric Foster and generalized Forster theories and for a clear understanding of their respective limits of validity.

id: 1303.2287
title: Topological Many-Body States in Quantum Antiferromagnets via Fuzzy Super-Geometry
authors: Kazuki Hasebe, Keisuke Totsuka
comments: Review article, 1+104 pages, 37 figures, published version
journal: Symmetry 5 (2013) 119-214
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2287
abstract: Recent vigorous investigations of topological order have not only discovered new topological states of matter but also shed new light to "already known" topological states. One established example with topological order is the valence bond solid (VBS) states in quantum antiferromagnets. The VBS states are disordered spin liquids with no spontaneous symmetry breaking but most typically manifest topological order known as hidden string order on 1D chain. Interestingly, the VBS models are based on mathematics analogous to fuzzy geometry. We review applications of the mathematics of fuzzy super-geometry in the construction of supersymmetric versions of VBS (SVBS) states, and give a pedagogical introduction of SVBS models and their properties [arXiv:0809.4885, 1105.3529, 1210.0299]. As concrete examples, we present detail analysis of supersymmetric versions of SU(2) and SO(5) VBS states, i.e. UOSp(N|2) and UOSp(N|4) SVBS states whose mathematics are closely related to fuzzy two- and four-superspheres. The SVBS states are physically interpreted as hole-doped VBS states with superconducting property that interpolate various VBS states depending on value of a hole-doping parameter. The parent Hamiltonians for SVBS states are explicitly constructed, and their gapped excitations are derived within the single-mode approximation on 1D SVBS chains. Prominent features of the SVBS chains are discussed in detail, such as a generalized string order parameter and entanglement spectra. It is realized that the entanglement spectra are at least doubly degenerate regardless of the parity of bulk (super)spins. Stability of topological phase with supersymmetry is discussed with emphasis on its relation to particular edge (super)spin states.

id: 1303.2312
title: Real-time vector field tracking with a cold-atom magnetometer
authors: Naeimeh Behbood, Ferran Martin Ciurana, Giorgio Colangelo, Mario Napolitano, Morgan W. Mitchell, Robert J. Sewell
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 173504 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2312
abstract: We demonstrate a fast three-axis optical magnetometer using cold, optically-trapped $^{87}$Rb gas as a sensor. By near-resonant Faraday rotation we record the free-induction decay following optical pumping along two orthogonal axes to obtain the three field components and one gradient component. A single measurement achieves shot-noise limited sub-nT sensitivity in 1 ms, with transverse spatial resolution of $\sim$ 20 $\mu$m. We make a detailed analysis of the shot-noise-limited sensitivity.

id: 1303.2313
title: Inelastic processes in K^(+)- He collisions in energy range 0.7 - 10 keV
authors: R.A. Lomsadze, M.R. Gochitashvili, R.Ya. Kezerashvili, N.O. Mosulishvili, R. Phaneuf
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042710 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2313
abstract: Absolute cross sections for charge exchange, ionization, stripping and excitation in K^(+) - He collisions were measured in the ion energy range 0.7 - 10 keV. The experimental data and the schematic correlation diagrams are used to analyze and determine the mechanisms for these processes. The increase of the excitation probability of inelastic channels with the angle of scattering is revealed. An exceptionally highly excited state of He is observed and a peculiarity for the excitation function of the resonance line is explained. The intensity ratio for the excitation of the K II \lambda = 60.1 nm and \lambda = 61.2 nm lines is 5:1 which indicates the high probability for excitation of the singlet resonance level $^{1}$P$_{1}$ compared to the triplet level $^{3}$P$_{1}$. The similarity of the population of the 4p state of the potassium ion and atom as well as the anomalously small values of the excitation cross sections are explained.

id: 1303.2343
title: Supersymmetric Descendants of Self-Adjointly Extended Quantum Mechanical Hamiltonians
authors: M. H. Al-Hashimi, M. Salman, A. Shalaby, U.-J. Wiese
comments: 31 pages, 10 figures
journal: Annals of Physics, 17 May 2013
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2343
abstract: We consider the descendants of self-adjointly extended Hamiltonians in supersymmetric quantum mechanics on a half-line, on an interval, and on a punctured line or interval. While there is a 4-parameter family of self-adjointly extended Hamiltonians on a punctured line, only a 3-parameter sub-family has supersymmetric descendants that are themselves self-adjoint. We also address the self-adjointness of an operator related to the supercharge, and point out that only a sub-class of its most general self-adjoint extensions is physical. Besides a general characterization of self-adjoint extensions and their supersymmetric descendants, we explicitly consider concrete examples, including a particle in a box with general boundary conditions, with and without an additional point interaction. We also discuss bulk-boundary resonances and their manifestation in the supersymmetric descendant.

id: 1303.2345
title: Two charges on a plane in a magnetic field: hidden algebra, (particular) integrability, polynomial eigenfunctions
authors: A.V. Turbiner, M.A. Escobar-Ruiz
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2345
abstract: The quantum mechanics of two Coulomb charges on a plane $(e_1, m_1)$ and $(e_2, m_2)$ subject to a constant magnetic field $B$ perpendicular to the plane is considered. Four integrals of motion are explicitly indicated. It is shown that for two physically-important particular cases, namely that of two particles of equal Larmor frequencies, ${e_c} \propto \frac{e_1}{m_1}-\frac{e_2}{m_2}=0$ (e.g. two electrons) and one of a neutral system (e.g. the electron - positron pair, Hydrogen atom) at rest (the center-of-mass momentum is zero) some outstanding properties occur. They are the most visible in double polar coordinates in CMS $(R, \phi)$ and relative $(\rho, \varphi)$ coordinate systems: (i) eigenfunctions are factorizable, all factors except one with the explicit $\rho$-dependence are found analytically, they have definite relative angular momentum, (ii) dynamics in $\rho$-direction is the same for both systems, it corresponds to a funnel-type potential and it has hidden $sl(2)$ algebra; at some discrete values of dimensionless magnetic fields $b \leq 1$, (iii) particular integral(s) occur, (iv) the hidden $sl(2)$ algebra emerges in finite-dimensional representation, thus, the system becomes {\it quasi-exactly-solvable} and (v) a finite number of polynomial eigenfunctions in $\rho$ appear. Nine families of eigenfunctions are presented explicitly.

id: 1303.2430
title: Quantum and Concept Combination, Entangled Measurements and Prototype Theory
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Topics in Cognitive Science, 6, pp. 129-137, 2014
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2430
abstract: We analyze the meaning of the violation of the marginal probability law for situations of correlation measurements where entanglement is identified. We show that for quantum theory applied to the cognitive realm such a violation does not lead to the type of problems commonly believed to occur in situations of quantum theory applied to the physical realm. We briefly situate our quantum approach for modeling concepts and their combinations with respect to the notions of 'extension' and 'intension' in theories of meaning, and in existing concept theories.

id: 1303.2501
title: Nonlinear Spectral Singularities for Localized Nonlinearities
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 260402 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2501
abstract: We introduce a notion of spectral singularity that applies for a general class of nonlinear Schreodinger operators involving a confined nonlinearity. The presence of the nonlinearity does not break the parity-reflection symmetry of spectral singularities but makes them amplitude-dependent. Nonlinear spectral singularities are, therefore, associated with a resonance effect that produces amplified waves with a specific amplitude-wavelength profile. We explore the consequences of this phenomenon for a complex delta-function potential that is subject to a general confined nonlinearity.

id: 1303.2518
title: Local quantum criticality out of equilibrium - effective temperatures and scaling in the steady state regime
authors: Pedro Ribeiro, Qimiao Si, Stefan Kirchner
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2518
abstract: We study the out of equilibrium steady state properties of the Bose-Fermi-Kondo model, describing a local magnetic moment coupled to two ferromagnetic leads that support bosonic (magnons) and fermionic (Stoner continuum electrons) low energy excitations. This model describes the destruction of the Kondo effect as the coupling to the bosons is increased. Its phase diagram comprises three non-trivial fixed points. Using a dynamical large-$N$approach on the Keldysh contour, we study two different non-equilibrium setups: (a) a finite bias voltage and (b) a finite temperature gradient, imposed across the leads. The scaling behavior of the charge and energy currents is identified and characterized for all fixed points. We report the existence of a fixed-point-dependent effective temperature, defined though the fluctuation dissipation relations of the local spin-susceptibility in the scaling regime, which permits to recover the equilibrium behavior of both dynamical and static spin susceptibilities.

id: 1303.2522
title: Resonances in dissipative optomechanics with nanoparticles: Sorting, speed rectification and transverse cooling
authors: S.J.M. Habraken, W. Lechner, P. Zoller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053808 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2522
abstract: The interaction between dielectric particles and a laser-driven optical cavity gives rise to both conservative and dissipative dynamics, which can be used to levitate, trap and cool nanoparticles. We analytically and numerically study a two-mode setup in which the optical potentials along the cavity axis cancel, so that the resulting dynamics is almost purely dissipative. For appropriate detunings of the laser-drives, this dissipative optomechanical dynamics can be used to sort particles according to their size, to rectify their velocities and to enhance transverse cooling.

id: 1303.2542
title: Robust Smoothing for Estimating Optical Phase Varying as a Continuous Resonant Process
authors: Shibdas Roy, Obaid Ur Rehman, Ian R. Petersen, Elanor H. Huntington
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, Proceedings of the 2014 European Control Conference, pp. 896-901
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2542
abstract: Continuous phase estimation is known to be superior in accuracy as compared to static estimation. The estimation process is, however, desired to be made robust to uncertainties in the underlying parameters. Here, homodyne phase estimation of coherent and squeezed states of light, evolving continuously under the influence of a second-order resonant noise process, are made robust to parameter uncertainties using a robust fixed-interval smoother, designed for uncertain systems satisfying a certain integral quadratic constraint. We observe that such a robust smoother provides improved worst-case performance over the optimal smoother and also performs better than a robust filter for the uncertain system.

id: 1303.2590
title: Born-Jordan Quantization and the Uncertainty Principle
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2590
abstract: The Weyl correspondence and the related Wigner formalism lie at the core of traditional quantum mechanics. We discuss here an alternative quantization scheme, whose idea goes back to Born and Jordan, and which has recently been revived in another context, namely time-frequency analysis. We show that in particular the uncertainty principle does not enjoy full symplectic covariance properties in the Born and Jordan scheme, as opposed to what happens in the Weyl quantization.

id: 1303.2687
title: Multiband s-wave topological superconductors: role of dimensionality and magnetic field response
authors: Shusa Deng, Gerardo Ortiz, Lorenza Viola
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 205414 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2687
abstract: We further investigate a class of time-reversal-invariant two-band s-wave topological superconductors introduced in Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 036803 (2012). We show how, in the presence of time-reversal symmetry, Z_2 invariants that distinguish between trivial and non-trivial quantum phases can be constructed by considering only one of the Kramers' sectors in which the Hamiltonian decouples into. We find that the main features identified in our original 2D setting remain qualitatively unchanged in 1D and 3D, with non-trivial topological superconducting phases supporting an odd number of Kramers' pairs of helical Majorana modes on each boundary, as long as the required $\pi$ phase difference between gaps is maintained. We also analyze the consequences of time-reversal symmetry-breaking either due to the presence of an applied or impurity magnetic field or to a deviation from the intended phase matching between the superconducting gaps. We demonstrate how the relevant notion of topological invariance must be modified when time-reversal symmetry is broken, and how both the persistence of gapless Majorana modes and their robustness properties depend in general upon the way in which the original Hamiltonian is perturbed. Interestingly, a topological quantum phase transition between helical and chiral superconducting phases can be induced by suitably tuning a Zeeman field in conjunction with a phase mismatch between the gaps. Recent experiments in doped semiconducting crystals, of potential relevance to the proposed model, and possible candidate material realizations in superconductors with $s_\pm$ pairing symmetry are discussed.

id: 1303.2775
title: Finite-size scaling behavior of Bose-Einstein condensation in the 1D Bose gas
authors: Jun Sato, Eriko Kaminishi, Tetsuo Deguchi
comments: 5pages, 4figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2775
abstract: Through exact numerical solutions we show Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) for the one-dimensional (1D) bosons with repulsive short-range interactions at zero temperature by taking a particular large size limit. Following the Penrose-Onsager criterion of BEC, we define condensate fraction by the fraction of the largest eigenvalue of the one-particle reduced density matrix. % We show the finite-size scaling behavior such that condensate fraction is given by a scaling function of one-variable: interaction parameter multiplied by a power of particle number. Condensate fraction is nonzero and constant for any large value of particle number or system size, if the interaction parameter is proportional to the negative power of particle number. %Here the interaction parameter is defined by the coupling constant of the delta-function potentials devided by the density. %With the scaling behavior we derive various themodynamic limits where condensate fraction is constant for any large system size; for instance, it is the case even in the system of a finite particle number.

id: 1303.2896
title: Application of Quantum Process Calculus to Higher Dimensional Quantum Protocols
authors: Simon J. Gay, Ittoop Vergheese Puthoor
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2012, arXiv:1407.8427
journal: EPTCS 158, 2014, pp. 15-28
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2896
abstract: We describe the use of quantum process calculus to describe and analyze quantum communication protocols, following the successful field of formal methods from classical computer science. We have extended the quantum process calculus to describe d-dimensional quantum systems, which has not been done before. We summarise the necessary theory in the generalisation of quantum gates and Bell states and use the theory to apply the quantum process calculus CQP to quantum protocols, namely qudit teleportation and superdense coding.

id: 1303.2917
title: Observability of`Cascade Mixing' in B0 --> J/psi K0
authors: Leo Stodolsky
comments: 21 pages, 3 tables, no figures, many small corrections and improvements, notation for m_k made consistent. One substantive change: sign of Eq 51, corresponding element in Table 3 changed
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2917
abstract: In high statistics observations of B^o --> J/\psi K0, originating from the process Upsilon(4S)--> B0 B0, it should be possible to observe `cascade mixing', where one mixing particle, the B0, turns into another, the K0. This is possible despite the difficulty that the length of the beam crossing region makes a precise definition of the primary vertex impossible. This difficulty is circumvented by using an `away side' tag to specify the initial time. We review the formalism for describing such processes, and first apply it to simple B0 mixing, noting it gives a transparent description for CP and T asymmetries. In particular we show that three different asymmetries of the CP and T type, with neglect of direct CP violation, are given by the same expression. For "cascade mixing" we present predictions for processes of the type B_i --> K_j via J/psi, where in the limit of no direct CP violation each state i or j is determined by a simple tag. There are 16 such simple measureable processes, involving 10 functions of the two time intervals involved. The coefficients of the functions are different for each of the processes and are given in terms of the mass splitting and the CP, T violating parameter of the B0 mass matrix m_2. The results presented here are just consquences of the quantum mechanics of particle mixing and do not involve any particular model of CP violation.

id: 1303.2922
title: Integrated Optical Dipole Trap for Cold Neutral Atoms with an Optical Waveguide Coupler
authors: J. Lee, D. H. Park, S. Mittal, M. Dagenais, S. L. Rolston
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 043010 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2922
abstract: An integrated optical dipole trap uses two-color (red and blue-detuned) traveling evanescent wave fields for trapping cold neutral atoms. To achieve longitudinal confinement, we propose using an integrated optical waveguide coupler, which provides a potential gradient along the beam propagation direction sufficient to confine atoms. This integrated optical dipole trap can support an atomic ensemble with a large optical depth due to its small mode area. Its quasi-TE0 waveguide mode has an advantage over the HE11 mode of a nanofiber, with little inhomogeneous Zeeman broadening at the trapping region. The longitudinal confinement eliminates the need for a 1-D optical lattice, reducing collisional blockaded atomic loading, potentially producing larger ensembles. The waveguide trap allows for scalability and integrability with nano-fabrication technology. We analyze the potential performance of such integrated atom traps.

id: 1303.3064
title: Locality and thermalization in closed quantum systems
authors: J. Sirker, N.P. Konstantinidis, F. Andraschko, N. Sedlmayr
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042104 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3064
abstract: We derive a necessary and sufficient condition for the thermalization of a local observable in a closed quantum system which offers an alternative explanation, independent of the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis, for the thermalization process. We also show that this approach is useful to investigate thermalization based on a finite-size scaling of numerical data. The condition follows from an exact representation of the observable as a sum of a projection onto the local conserved charges of the system and a projection onto the non-local ones. We show that thermalization requires that the time average of the latter part vanishes in the thermodynamic limit while time and statistical averages for the first part are identical. As an example, we use this thermalization condition to analyze exact diagonalization data for a one-dimensional spin model. We find that local correlators do thermalize in the thermodynamic limit although we find no indications that the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis applies.

id: 1303.3085
title: van der Waals interactions between graphitic nanowiggles
authors: Anh D. Phan, Lilia M. Woods, The-Long Phan
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, submitted 2013
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 114, 044308 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3085
abstract: The van der Waals interactions between two parallel graphitic nanowiggles (GNWs) are calculated using the coupled dipole method (CDM). The CDM is an efficient and accurate approach to determine such interactions explicitly by taking into account the discrete atomic structure. Our findings show that the van der Waals forces vary from attraction to repulsion as nanoribbons move along their lengths with respect to each other. This feature leads to a number of stable and unstable positions of the system during the movement process. These positions can be tuned by changing the length of GNW. Moreover, the influence of the thermal effect on the van der Waals interactions is also extensively investigated. This work would give good direction for both future theoretical and experimental studies.

id: 1303.3170
title: Types and forgetfulness in categorical linguistics and quantum mechanics
authors: Peter Hines
comments: 37 pages, 4 figures
journal: in C. Heunen, M. Sadrzadeh, E. Grefenstette (ed.s), Quantum Physics and Linguistics: a compositional diagrammatic discourse, Oxford University Press (2013)
subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3170
abstract: The role of types in categorical models of meaning is investigated. A general scheme for how typed models of meaning may be used to compare sentences, regardless of their grammatical structure is described, and a toy example is used as an illustration. Taking as a starting point the question of whether the evaluation of such a type system 'loses information', we consider the parametrized typing associated with connectives from this viewpoint. The answer to this question implies that, within full categorical models of meaning, the objects associated with types must exhibit a simple but subtle categorical property known as self-similarity. We investigate the category theory behind this, with explicit reference to typed systems, and their monoidal closed structure. We then demonstrate close connections between such self-similar structures and dagger Frobenius algebras. In particular, we demonstrate that the categorical structures implied by the polymorphically typed connectives give rise to a (lax unitless) form of the special forms of Frobenius algebras known as classical structures, used heavily in abstract categorical approaches to quantum mechanics.

id: 1303.3205
title: Terahertz quantum cascade lasers with thin resonant-phonon depopulation active regions and surface-plasmon waveguides
authors: M. Salih, P. Dean, A. Valavanis, S. P. Khanna, L. H. Li, J. E. Cunningham, A. G. Davies, E. H. Linfield
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 113, 113110 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3205
abstract: We report three-well, resonant-phonon depopulation terahertz quantum cascade lasers with semi-insulating surface-plasmon waveguides and reduced active region (AR) thicknesses. Devices with thicknesses of 10, 7.5, 6, and 5 {\mu}m are compared in terms of threshold current density, maximum operating temperature, output power and AR temperature. Thinner ARs are technologically less demanding for epitaxial growth and result in reduced electrical heating of devices. However, it is found that 7.5-{\mu}m-thick devices give the lowest electrical power densities at threshold, as they represent the optimal trade-off between low electrical resistance and low threshold gain.

id: 1303.3281
title: Geometric Phase and Fidelity of The One-Dimensional Extended Quantum Compass Model in a Transverse Field
authors: R. Jafari
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to prepare the extended version
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3281
abstract: We study the geometric phase of the ground state in the extended quantum compass model in presence of a transverse field. The exact solution is obtained by using the Jordan-Wigner transformation which maps the Hamiltonian on a fermionic system and applying the Fourier transformation to realize the diagonalization and an analytical expression for the ground state and geometric phase in the momentum space. Furthermore, the scaling behavior of the extremum of geometric phase and its universality are investigated due to the divergence of geometric phase at the critical point.

id: 1303.3320
title: On the preservation of commutation and anticommutation relations of N-level quantum systems
authors: Luis A. Duffaut Espinosa, Z. Miao, I. R. Petersen, V. Ugrinovskii, M. R. James
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3320
abstract: The goal of this paper is to provide conditions under which a quantum stochastic differential equation (QSDE) preserves the commutation and anticommutation relations of the SU(n) algebra, and thus describes the evolution of an open n-level quantum system. One of the challenges in the approach lies in the handling of the so-called anomaly coefficients of SU(n). Then, it is shown that the physical realizability conditions recently developed by the authors for open n-level quantum systems also imply preservation of commutation and anticommutation relations.

id: 1303.3340
title: Hybrid Electron Spin Resonance and Whispering Gallery Mode Resonance Spectroscopy of Fe3+ in Sapphire
authors: Karim Benmessai, Warrick G. Farr, Daniel L. Creedon, Yarema Reshitnyk, Jean-Michel Le Floch, Timothy Duty, Michael E. Tobar
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 094412 (2013)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3340
abstract: The development of a new era of quantum devices requires an understanding of how paramagnetic dopants or impurity spins behave in crystal hosts. Here, we describe a new spectroscopic technique which uses traditional Electron Spin Resonance (ESR) combined with the measurement of a large population of electromagnetic Whispering Gallery (WG) modes. This allows the characterization of the physical parameters of paramagnetic impurity ions in the crystal at low temperatures. We present measurements of two ultra-high purity sapphires cooled to 20 mK in temperature, and determine the concentration of Fe3+ ions and their frequency sensitivity to a DC magnetic field. Our method is different to ESR in that it is possible to track the resonant frequency of the ion from zero applied magnetic field to any arbitrary value, allowing excellent measurement precision. This high precision reveals anisotropic behaviour of the Zeeman splitting, which has not been previously reported. In both crystals, each Zeeman component demonstrates a different g-factor.

id: 1303.3366
title: Derivation of Lindblad master equation for the quantum Ising model interacting with a heat bath
authors: Peizhi Mai, Shuai Yin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3366
abstract: Starting from the Liouville-von Neumann equation, under a weak coupling limit we derive the Lindblad master equation for the one-dimensional quantum Ising model in a Markov approximation and a rotating wave approximation. We also prove that the steady solution of the Lindblad equation is the canonical distribution independent of the dissipation rate.

id: 1303.3383
title: Significance of the Casimir force and surface roughness for actuation dynamics of MEMS
authors: Wijnand Broer, George Palasantzas, Jasper Knoester, Vitaly B. Svetovoy
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, published in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 125413 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3383
abstract: Using the measured optical response and surface roughness topography as inputs, we perform realistic calculations of the combined effect of Casimir and electrostatic forces on the actuation dynamics of micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS). In contrast with the expectations, roughness can influence MEMS dynamics even at distances between bodies significantly larger than the root-mean-square roughness. This effect is associated with statistically rare high asperities that can be locally close to the point of contact. It is found that, even though surface roughness appears to have a detrimental effect on the availability of stable equilibria, it ensures that those equilibria can be reached more easily than in the case of flat surfaces. Hence our findings play a principal role for the stability of microdevices such as vibration sensors, switches, and other related MEM architectures operating at distances below 100 nm.

id: 1303.3405
title: Theory of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in Strongly Correlated Quantum Gases
authors: H. H. Jen, Daw-Wei Wang
comments: Five figures and supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 061802(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3405
abstract: We develop a general theory to study the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in ultracold quantum gases, applicable for both Bose and Fermi gases with arbitrary inter-particle interaction strength. We show that, in the weak probe field limit, the EIT spectrum is solely determined by the single particle Green's function of the ground state atoms, and reflects interesting quantum many-body effects when atoms are virtually coupled to the low-lying Rydberg states. As an example, we apply our theory to 1D Luttinger liquid, Bose-Mott insulator state, and the superfluid state of two-component Fermi gases, and show how the many-body features can be observed non-destructively in the unconventional EIT spectrum.

id: 1303.3420
title: Excitation of weakly-bound molecules to trilobite-like Rydberg states
authors: M. A. Bellos, R. Carollo, J. Banerjee, E. E. Eyler, P. L. Gould, W. C. Stwalley
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3420
abstract: We observe "trilobite-like" states of ultracold 85Rb2 molecules, in which a ground-state atom is bound by the electronic wavefunction of its Rydberg-atom partner. We populate these states through the ultraviolet excitation of weakly-bound molecules, and access a regime of trilobite-like states at low principal quantum numbers and with vibrational turning points around 35 Bohr radii. This demonstrates that, unlike previous studies that used free-to-bound transitions, trilobite-like states can also be excited through bound-to-bound transitions. This approach provides high excitation probabilities without requiring high-density samples, and affords the ability to control the excitation radius by selection of the initial-state vibrational level.

id: 1303.3459
title: Nonequilibrium Model of Photon Condensation
authors: Peter Kirton, Jonathan Keeling
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 100404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3459
abstract: We develop a nonequilibrium model of condensation and lasing of photons in a dye filled microcavity. We examine in detail the nature of the thermalization process induced by absorption and emission of photons by the dye molecules, and investigate when the photons are able to reach a thermal equilibrium Bose-Einstein distribution. At low temperatures, or large cavity losses, the absorption and emission rates are too small to allow the photons to reach thermal equilibrium and the behavior becomes more like that of a conventional laser.

id: 1303.3471
title: The splitting in potential Crank-Nicolson scheme with discrete transparent boundary conditions for the Schr?dinger equation on a semi-infinite strip
authors: Bernard Ducomet, Alexander Zlotnik, Ilya Zlotnik
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures, 4 tables
journal: 
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3471
abstract: We consider an initial-boundary value problem for a generalized 2D time-dependent Schrodinger equation (with variable coefficients) on a semi-infinite strip. For the Crank-Nicolson-type finite-difference scheme with approximate or discrete transparent boundary conditions (TBCs), the Strang-type splitting with respect to the potential is applied. For the resulting method, the unconditional uniform in time $L^2$-stability is proved. Due to the splitting, an effective direct algorithm using FFT is developed now to implement the method with the discrete TBC for general potential. Numerical results on the tunnel effect for rectangular barriers are included together with the detailed practical error analysis confirming nice properties of the method.

id: 1303.3507
title: Coupling spin qubits via superconductors
authors: Martin Leijnse, Karsten Flensberg
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 060501 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3507
abstract: We show how superconductors can be used to couple, initialize, and read out spatially separated spin qubits. When two single-electron quantum dots are tunnel coupled to the same superconductor, the singlet component of the two-electron state partially leaks into the superconductor via crossed Andreev reflection. This induces a gate-controlled singlet-triplet splitting which, with an appropriate superconductor geometry, remains large for dot separations within the superconducting coherence length. Furthermore, we show that when two double-dot singlet-triplet qubits are tunnel coupled to a superconductor with finite charging energy, crossed Andreev reflection enables a strong two-qubit coupling over distances much larger than the coherence length.

id: 1303.3509
title: Furtive Quantum Sensing Using Matter-Wave Cloaks
authors: Romain Fleury, Andrea Alu
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, plus 5 supplementary pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3509
abstract: We introduce the concept of furtive quantum sensing, demonstrating the possibility of concealing quantum objects from matter-waves, while maintaining their ability to interact and get excited by the impinging particles. This is obtained by cloaking, with tailored homogeneous metamaterial layers, quantum systems having internal degrees of freedom. The effect is a low-observable quantum sensor with drastically reduced elastic scattering and optimized absorption levels, a concept that opens interesting venues in particle detection, high-efficiency electrical pumping and quantum supercomputing.

id: 1303.3526
title: Functionally independent conservations laws in a quantum integrable model
authors: Haile Owusu, B. Sriram Shastry
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3526
abstract: We study a recently proposed quantum integrable model defined on a lattice with N sites, with Fermions or Bosons populating each site, as a close relative of the well known spin-1/2 Gaudin model. This model has 2N arbitrary parameters, a linear dependence on an interaction type parameter x, and can be solved exactly. It has N known constants of motion that are linear in x. We display further constants of motion with higher Fermion content, that are are linearly independent of the known conservation laws. Our main result is that despite the existence of these higher conservation laws, the model has only N functionally independent conservation laws. Therefore we propose that N can be viewed as the number of degrees of freedom, in parallel to the classical definition of integrability.

id: 1303.3537
title: Quantum search with interacting Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Mahdi Ebrahimi Kahou, David L. Feder
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures; introduction and background sections overhauled; new section added addressing the impact of errors
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032310 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3537
abstract: One approach to the development of quantum search algorithms is the quantum walk. A spatial search can be effected by the continuous-time evolution of a single quantum particle on a graph containing a marked site. In many physical implementations, however, one might expect to have multiple particles. In interacting bosonic systems at zero temperature, the dynamics is well-described by a discrete nonlinear Schrodinger equation. We investigate the role of nonlinearity in determining the efficiency of the spatial search algorithm within the quantum walk model, for the complete graph. The analytical calculations reveal that the nonlinear search time scales with size of the search space N like the square root of N, equivalent to the linear case though with a different overall constant. The results indicate that interacting Bose-Einstein condensates at zero temperature could be natural systems for the implementation of the quantum search algorithm.

id: 1303.3623
title: Classical Simulation of Squeezed Vacuum in Optical Waveguide Arrays
authors: Andrey A. Sukhorukov, Alexander S. Solntsev, John Sipe
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053823 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3623
abstract: We reveal that classical light diffraction in arrays of specially modulated coupled optical waveguides can simulate the quantum process of two-mode squeezing in nonlinear media, with the waveguide mode amplitudes corresponding the signal and idler photon numbers. The whole Fock space is mapped by a set of arrays, where each array represents the states with a fixed difference between the signal and idler photon numbers. We demonstrate a critical transition from photon number growth to Bloch oscillations with periodical revivals of an arbitrary input state, associated with an increase of the effective phase mismatch between the pump and the squeezed photons.

id: 1303.3790
title: The Casimir-Effect: No Manifestation of Zero-Point Energy
authors: Gerold Gr¨¹ndler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3790
abstract: The attractive force between metallic surfaces, predicted by Casimir in 1948, seems to indicate the physical existence and measurability of the quantized electromagnetic field's zero-point energy. It is shown in this article, that the measurements of that force do not confirm Casimir's model, but in fact disprove it's foundational assumption that metal plates may be represented in the theory by quantum-field-theoretical boundaries. The consequences for the cosmological constant problem are discussed.

id: 1303.3793
title: The Distribution of Ramsey Numbers
authors: Lane Clark, Frank Gaitan
comments: Published version of manuscript; 5 pages, no figures
journal: Advances and Applications in Discrete Mathematics vol. 14, pp. 67-74 (2014)
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3793
abstract: We prove that the number of integers in the interval [0,x] that are non-trivial Ramsey numbers r(k,n) (3 <= k <= n) has order of magnitude (x ln x)**(1/2).

id: 1303.3795
title: Equilibration of a Tonks-Girardeau gas following a trap release
authors: Mario Collura, Spyros Sotiriadis, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 5+3 pages, 4+1 figures, v2 includes supplementary materials
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 245301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3795
abstract: We study the non-equilibrium dynamics of a Tonks-Girardeau gas released from a parabolic trap to a circle. We present the exact analytic solution of the many body dynamics and prove that, for large times and in a properly defined thermodynamic limit, the reduced density matrix of any finite subsystem converges to a generalized Gibbs ensemble. The equilibration mechanism is expected to be the same for all one-dimensional systems.

id: 1303.3840
title: Two-dimensional short-range interacting attractive and repulsive Fermi gases at zero temperature
authors: Gianluca Bertaina
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, published version. Sixth International Workshop "Theory of Quantum Gases and Quantum Coherence", Lyon (France)
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 217, 153-162 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3840
abstract: We study a two-dimensional two-component Fermi gas with attractive or repulsive short-range interactions at zero temperature. We use Diffusion Monte Carlo with Fixed Node approximation in order to calculate the energy per particle and the opposite-spin pair distribution functions. We show the relevance of beyond mean field effects and verify the consistency of our approach by using Tan's Contact relations.

id: 1303.3952
title: On the Polarization of non-Guassian optical quantum field: higher-order optical-polarization
authors: Ravi S. Singh, Hari Prakash
comments: 15 pages, To appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 333, 198 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3952
abstract: Polarization of light signifies transversal, anisotropic and asymmetrical statistical property of electromagnetic radiation about direction of propagation. Traditionally, optical-polarization is characterized by Stokes theory susceptible to be insufficient in assessing polarization structure of optical quantum fields and, also, does not decipher twin characteristic polarization parameters (ratio of real amplitudes and difference in phases). An alternative way, in spirit of classical description of optical-polarization, is introduced which can be generalized to deal higher-order polarization of quantum light, particularly, prepared in non-Guassian Schrodinger Cat or Cat-like states and entangled bi-modal coherent states. On account of pseudo mono-modal or multi-modal nature of such optical quantum field, higher-order polarization is seen to be highly sensitive to the basis of description.

id: 1303.4019
title: A comment on the generalization of the Marinatto-Weber quantum game scheme
authors: Piotr Frackiewicz
comments: 
journal: Acta Physica Polonica B 44 (2013) 29
subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4019
abstract: Iqbal and Toor [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 65}, 022306 (2002)] and [Commun. Theor. Phys. {\bf 42}, 335 (2004)] generalized the Marinatto-Weber quantum scheme for $2 \times 2$ games in order to study bimatrix games of $3 \times 3$ dimension, in particular the Rock-Paper-Scissors game. In our paper we show that Iqbal and Toor's generalization exhibits certain undesirable property that can considerably influence the game result. To support our argumentation, in the further part of the paper we construct the protocol corresponding to the MW concept for any finite bimatrix game that is free from the fault.

id: 1303.4067
title: The Casimir effect as a candidate of dark energy
authors: Jiro Matsumoto
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures. v2: the expression of the energy density revised, figures added, v3; figures and typos are corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4067
abstract: It is known that the simply evaluated value of the zero point energy of quantum fields is extremely deviated from the observed value of dark energy density. In this paper, we consider whether the Casimir energy, which is the zero point energy brought from boundary conditions, can cause the accelerating expansion of the Universe by using proper renormalization method and introducing the fermions of finite temperature living in $3+n+1$ space-time. We show that the zero temperature Casimir energy and the finite temperature corrections can explain the current accelerated expansion of the Universe.

id: 1303.4190
title: Symmetry Protected Quantum State Renormalization
authors: Ching-Yu Huang, Xie Chen, Feng-Li Lin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 205124 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4190
abstract: Symmetry protected topological (SPT) phases with gapless edge excitations have been shown to exist in principle in strongly interacting bosonic/fermionic systems and it is highly desirable to find practical systems to realize such phases through numerical calculation. A central question to be addressed is how to determine the SPT order in the system given the numerical simulation result while no local order parameter can be measured to distinguish the phases from a trivial one. In the tensor network approach to simulate strongly interacting systems, the quantum state renormalization algorithm has been demonstrated to be effective in identifying the intrinsic topological orders. Here we show that a modified algorithm can identify SPT orders by extracting the fixed point entanglement pattern in the ground state wave function which is essential for the existence of SPT order. The key to this approach is to add symmetry protection to the quantum state renormalization process and we demonstrate the effectiveness of this algorithm with the example of AKLT states in both 1D and 2D.

id: 1303.4209
title: Typical Entanglement
authors: Fabio Deelan Cunden, Paolo Facchi, Giuseppe Florio, Saverio Pascazio
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus 128, 48 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4209
abstract: Let a pure state \psi be chosen randomly in an NM-dimensional Hilbert space, and consider the reduced density matrix \rho of an N-dimensional subsystem. The bipartite entanglement properties of \psi are encoded in the spectrum of \rho. By means of a saddle point method and using a "Coulomb gas" model for the eigenvalues, we obtain the typical spectrum of reduced density matrices. We consider the cases of an unbiased ensemble of pure states and of a fixed value of the purity. We finally obtain the eigenvalue distribution by using a statistical mechanics approach based on the introduction of a partition function.

id: 1303.4322
title: Non-Markovian spin transfer dynamics in magnetic semiconductors despite short memory times
authors: Christoph Thurn, Moritz Cygorek, Vollrath Martin Axt, Tilmann Kuhn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4322
abstract: A quantum kinetic theory of the spin transfer between carriers and Mn atoms in a Mn doped diluted magnetic semiconductor is presented. It turns out that the typical memory time associated with these processes is orders of magnitude shorter than the time scale of the spin transfer. Nevertheless, Markovian rate equations, which are obtained by neglecting the memory, work well only for bulk systems. For quantum wells and wires the quantum kinetic results qualitatively deviate from the Markovian limit under certain conditions. Instead of a monotonic decay of an initially prepared excess electron spin, an overshoot or even coherent oscillations are found. It is demonstrated that these features are caused by energetic redistributions of the carriers due to the energy-time uncertainty.

id: 1303.4339
title: Interactions in Electronic Mach-Zehnder Interferometers with Copropagating Edge Channels
authors: Luca Chirolli, Fabio Taddei, Rosario Fazio, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 036801 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4339
abstract: We study Coulomb interactions in the finite bias response of Mach-Zehnder interferometers, which exploit copropagating edge states in the integer quantum Hall effect. Here, interactions are particularly important since the coherent coupling of edge channels is due to a resonant mechanism that is spoiled by inelastic processes. We find that interactions yield a saturation, as a function of bias voltage, of the period-averaged interferometer current, which gives rise to unusual features, such as negative differential conductance, enhancement of the visibility of the current, and nonbounded or even diverging visibility of the differential conductance.

id: 1303.4369
title: Floquet-Bloch theory and topology in periodically driven lattices
authors: Alvaro Gomez-Leon, Gloria Platero
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures and supplementary information
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 200403 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4369
abstract: We propose a general framework to solve tight binding models in D dimensional lattices driven by ac electric fields. Our method is valid for arbitrary driving regimes and allows to obtain effective Hamiltonians for different external fields configurations. We establish an equivalence with time independent lattices in D+1 dimensions, and analyze their topological properties. Further, we demonstrate that non-adiabaticity drives a transition from topological invariants defined in D+1 to D dimensions. Our approach provides a theoretical framework to analyze ac driven systems, with potential applications in topological states of matter, and non-adiabatic topological quantum computation, predicting novel outcomes for future experiments.

id: 1303.4420
title: Kosaki-Longo index and classification of charges in 2D quantum spin models
authors: Pieter Naaijkens
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures. v2: closed gap in proof of Lemma 4.7, some minor corrections
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 081901 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4420
abstract: We consider charge superselection sectors of two-dimensional quantum spin models corresponding to cone localisable charges, and prove that the number of equivalence classes of such charges is bounded by the Kosaki-Longo index of an inclusion of certain observable algebras. To demonstrate the power of this result we apply the theory to the toric code on a 2D infinite lattice. For this model we can compute the index of this inclusion, and conclude that there are four distinct irreducible charges in this model, in accordance with the analysis of the toric code model on compact surfaces. We also give a sufficient criterion for the non-degeneracy of the charge sectors, in the sense that Verlinde's matrix S is invertible.

id: 1303.4446
title: An efficient implementation of two-component relativistic exact-decoupling methods for large molecules
authors: Daoling Peng, Nils Middendorf, Florian Weigend, Markus Reiher
comments: 53 pages, 1 figure, 9 tables, incl. supp. inf
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 138, 184105 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4446
abstract: We present an efficient algorithm for one- and two-component relativistic exact-decoupling calculations. Spin-orbit coupling is thus taken into account for the evaluation of relativistically transformed (one-electron) Hamiltonian. As the relativistic decoupling transformation has to be evaluated with primitive functions, the construction of the relativistic one-electron Hamiltonian becomes the bottleneck of the whole calculation for large molecules. For the established exact-decoupling protocols, a minimal matrix operation count is established and discussed in detail. Furthermore, we apply our recently developed local DLU scheme [J. Chem. Phys. 136 (2012) 244108] to accelerate this step. With our new implementation two-component relativistic density functional calculations can be performed invoking the resolution-of-identity density-fitting approximation and (Abelian as well as non-Abelian) point group symmetry to accelerate both the exact-decoupling and the two-electron part. The capability of our implementation is illustrated at the example of silver clusters with up to 309 atoms, for which the cohesive energy is calculated and extrapolated to the bulk.

id: 1303.4487
title: Integrated multi vector vortex beam generator
authors: Sebastian A. Schulz, Taras Machula, Ebrahim Karimi, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Optics Express 21, 16130 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4487
abstract: A novel method to generate and manipulate vector vortex beams in an integrated, ring resonator based geometry is proposed. We show numerically that a ring resonator, with an appropriate grating, addressed by a vertically displaced access waveguide emits a complex optical field. The emitted beam possesses a specific polarization topology, and consequently a transverse intensity profile and orbital angular momentum. We propose a combination of several concentric ring resonators, addressed with different bus guides, to generate arbitrary orbital angular momentum qudit states, which could potentially be used for classical and quantum communications. Finally, we demonstrate numerically that this device works as an orbital angular momentum sorter with an average cross-talk of -10 dB between different orbital angular momentum channels.

id: 1303.4539
title: Comment on "Quantum Coherence and Sensitivity of Avian Magnetoreception"
authors: Erik M. Gauger, Simon C. Benjamin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 178901 (2013)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4539
abstract: In a recent Letter [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 110502 (2012), arXiv:1204.6528], Bandyopadhyay, Paterek and Kaszlikowski report their analysis of spin coherence time in the radical pair involved in avian magnetoreception, concluding that is of the order of a microsecond. However, a combination of an erroneous numerical calculation together with an incorrect parameter drawn from an experimental source have resulted in the authors underestimating by two orders of magnitude. Consequently, one must reverse the authors' conclusion that the timescale is consistent with experiments on cryptochrome.

id: 1303.4560
title: Current in a quantum driven thermostatted system with off-diagonal disorder
authors: Matteo Colangeli, Marco Pizzi, Lamberto Rondoni
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1212.1092
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4560
abstract: We analyze a one-dimensional quantum model with off-diagonal disorder, consisting of a sequence of potential energy barriers whose width is a random variable either uniformly or "half-normally" distributed, subjected to an external electric field. We shed light on how the microscopic disorder affects the value of the transmission coefficient, and on the structure of the fluctuations around the solutions corresponding to the regular lattice configuration. We also characterize the asymptotic limit obtained by letting the number of barriers diverge, while their total width is kept constant. Thus, we explain the novelty of our method with respect to the standard thermodynamic limit discussed in the literature, and also evidence the onset of a large deviations principle for the transmission coefficient.

id: 1303.4568
title: Finite-size corrections to Fermi's golden rule: I. Decay rates
authors: Kenzo Ishikawa, Yutaka Tobita
comments: 75 pages, 11 figures, 3 tables, published version in PTEP
journal: PTEP 2013 (2013) 073B02
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4568
abstract: A quantum mechanical wave of a finite size moves like a classical particle and shows a unique decay probability. Because the wave function evolves according to the Schr\"{o}dinger equation, it preserves the total energy but not the kinetic energy in the intermediate-time region of a decay process where those of the parent and daughters overlap. The decay rate computed with Fermi's golden rule requires corrections that vary with the distance between the initial and final states, and the energy distribution of the daughter is distorted from that of plane waves. The corrections have universal properties in relativistically invariant systems and reveal macroscopic quantum phenomena for light particles. The implications for precision experiments in beta decays and various radiative transitions are presented.

id: 1303.4697
title: Interplay between radiation pressure force and scattered light intensity in the cooperative scattering by cold atoms
authors: Tom Bienaime, Romain Bachelard, Julien Chabe, Mohamed-Taha Rouabah, Louis Bellando, Philippe W. Courteille, Nicola Piovella, Robin Kaiser
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, article for special issue of PQE 2013
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Volume 61, Issue 1, pages 18-24 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4697
abstract: The interplay between the superradiant emission of a cloud of cold two-level atoms and the radiation pressure force is discussed. Using a microscopic model of coupled atomic dipoles driven by an external laser, the radiation field and the average radiation pressure force are derived. A relation between the far-field scattered intensity and the force is derived, using the optical theorem. Finally, the scaling of the sample scattering cross section with the parameters of the system is studied.

id: 1303.4706
title: Multidimensional X-Ray Spectroscopy of Valence and Core Excitations in Cysteine
authors: Jason D. Biggs, Yu Zhang, Daniel Healion, Shaul Mukamel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4706
abstract: Several nonlinear spectroscopy experiments which employ broadband x-ray pulses to probe the coupling between localized core and delocalized valence excitation are simulated for the amino acid cysteine at the K-edges of oxygen and nitrogen and the K and L-edges of sulfur. We focus on two dimensional (2D) and 3D signals generated by two- and three-pulse stimulated x-ray Raman spectroscopy (SXRS) with frequency-dispersed probe. We show how the four-pulse x-ray signals $\boldsymbol{k}_\mathrm{I}=-\boldsymbol{k}_1+\boldsymbol{k}_2+\boldsymbol{k}_3$ and $\boldsymbol{k}_\mathrm{II}=\boldsymbol{k}_1-\boldsymbol{k}_2+\boldsymbol{k}_3$ can give new 3D insight into the SXRS signals. The coupling between valence- and core-excited states can be visualized in three dimensional plots, revealing the origin of the polarizability that controls the simpler pump-probe SXRS signals.

id: 1303.4716
title: Entanglement subspaces, trial wavefunctions, and special Hamiltonians in the fractional quantum Hall effect
authors: T.S. Jackson, N. Read, S.H. Simon
comments: 28 pages. v2: two new appendices, in particular an improved proof of Theorem 2; now 31 pages. v3: minor changes, refs added, as published
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 075313 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4716
abstract: We consider spaces of trial wavefunctions for ground states and edge excitations in the fractional quantum Hall effect that can be obtained in various ways. In one way, functions are obtained by analyzing the entanglement of the ground state wavefunction, partitioned into two parts. In another, functions are defined by the way in which they vanish as several coordinates approach the same value, or by a projection-operator Hamiltonian that enforces those conditions. In a third way, functions are given by conformal blocks from a conformal field theory (CFT). These different spaces of functions are closely related. The use of CFT methods permits an algebraic formulation to be given for all of them. In some cases, we can prove that there is a ground state, a Hamiltonian, and a CFT such that, for any number of particles, all of these spaces are the same. For such cases, this resolves several questions and conjectures: it gives a finite-size bulk-edge correspondence, and we can use the analysis of functions to construct a projection-operator Hamiltonian that produces those functions as zero-energy states. For a model related to the N=1 superconformal algebra, the corresponding Hamiltonian imposes vanishing properties involving only three particles; for this we determine all the wavefunctions explicitly. We do the same for a sequence of models involving the M(3,p) Virasoro minimal models that has been considered previously, using results from the literature. We exhibit the Hamiltonians for the first few cases of these. The techniques we introduce can be applied in numerous examples other than those considered here.

id: 1303.4820
title: The observable-state model and non-renormalizable theories
authors: Juan Sebasti¨¢n Ardenghi, Alfredo Juan, Mario Castagnino
comments: 20 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1203.6267
journal: Int. Jour. Mod. Phys. A, Vol. 8, 7, 1350016, (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4820
abstract: The aim of this work is to apply the observable-state model for the quantum field theory of a \phi^n self- interaction. We show how to obtain finite values for the 2-point and n-point correlation functions without introducing counterterms in the Lagrangian. Also, we show how to obtain the renormalization group equation for the mass and the coupling constant. Finally, we found the dependence of the coupling constant with the energy scale and we discuss the validity of the observable-state model in terms of the projection procedure.

id: 1303.4990
title: Spontaneous quantum emission from analog white holes in a nonlinear optical medium
authors: Stefano Finazzi, Iacopo Carusotto
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053807 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.4990
abstract: We use a microscopic quantum optical model to compute the spectrum of quantum vacuum emission from strong laser pulses propagating in nonlinear optical media. Similarities and differences with respect to the emission of analog white holes as predicted by quantum field theory in curved spacetime are highlighted. Conceptual issues related to the role played by the material dispersion and to the presence or absence of the horizon are clarified. Critical comparison with available experimental data is made.

id: 1303.5003
title: Convolutional Codes: Techniques of Construction
authors: Giuliano G. La Guardia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5003
abstract: In this paper we show how to construct new convolutional codes from old ones by applying the well-known techniques: puncturing, extending, expanding, direct sum, the (u|u + v) construction and the product code construction. By applying these methods, several new families of convolutional codes can be constructed. As an example of code expansion, families of convolutional codes derived from classical Bose- Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem (BCH), character codes and Melas codes are constructed.

id: 1303.5289
title: Time reversal of light by linear dispersive filtering near atomic resonance
authors: H¨¦lo?se Linget, Thierry Chaneli¨¨re, Jean-Louis Le Gou?t, Anne Louchet-Chauvet
comments: 21 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5289
abstract: Based on the similarity of paraxial diffraction and dispersion mathematical descriptions, the temporal imaging of optical pulses combines linear dispersive filters and quadratic phase modulations operating as time lenses. We consider programming a dispersive filter near atomic resonance in rare earth ion doped crystals, which leads to unprecedented high values of dispersive power. This filter is used in an approximate imaging scheme, combining a single time lens and a single dispersive section and operating as a time reversing device, with potential applications in radio-frequency signal processing. This scheme is closely related to three-pulse photon echo with chirped pulses but the connection with temporal imaging and dispersive filtering emphasizes new features.

id: 1303.5471
title: The Second Law of Thermodynamics under Unitary Evolution and External Operations
authors: Tatsuhiko N. Ikeda, Naoyuki Sakumichi, Anatoli Polkovnikov, Masahito Ueda
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 354, 338-352 (2015)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5471
abstract: A microscopic definition of the thermodynamic entropy in an isolated quantum system must satisfy (i) additivity, (ii) extensivity and (iii) the second law of thermodynamics. We show that the diagonal entropy, which is the Shannon entropy in the energy eigenbasis at each instant of time, meets the first two requirements and that the third requirement is satisfied if an arbitrary external operation is performed at typical times. In terms of the diagonal entropy, thermodynamic irreversibility follows from the facts that the Hamiltonian dynamics restricts quantum trajectories under unitary evolution and that the external operation is performed without referring to any particular information about the microscopic state of the system.

id: 1303.5629
title: Nonlocal imaging by conditional averaging of random reference measurements
authors: Kai-Hong Luo, Boqiang Huang, Wei-Mou Zheng, Ling-An Wu
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Published in Chinese Physics Letters 29 (2012) 074216
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5629
abstract: We report the nonlocal imaging of an object by conditional averaging of the random exposure frames of a reference detector, which only sees the freely propagating field from a thermal light source. A bucket detector, synchronized with the reference detector, records the intensity fluctuations of an identical beam passing through the object mask. These fluctuations are sorted according to their values relative to the mean, then the reference data in the corresponding time-bins for a given fluctuation range are averaged, to produce either positive or negative images. Since no correlation calculations are involved, this correspondence imaging technique challenges our former interpretations of "ghost" imaging. Compared with conventional correlation imaging or compressed sensing schemes, both the number of exposures and computation time are greatly reduced, while the visibility is much improved. A simple statistical model is presented to explain the phenomenon.

id: 1303.5820
title: Recurrence Relations of the Multi-Indexed Orthogonal Polynomials
authors: Satoru Odake
comments: 27 pages. Comments and a reference added, reference information updated. To appear in J.Math.Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54 (2013) 083506
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5820
abstract: Ordinary orthogonal polynomials are uniquely characterized by the three term recurrence relations up to an overall multiplicative constant. We show that the newly discovered M-indexed orthogonal polynomials satisfy 3+2M term recurrence relations with non-trivial initial data of the lowest M+1 members. These include the multi-indexed orthogonal polynomials of Laguerre, Jacobi, Wilson and Askey-Wilson types. The M=0 case is the corresponding classical orthogonal polynomials.

id: 1303.5826
title: Collective Quantum Dot Inversion and Amplification of Photon and Phonon Waves
authors: Sumanta Das, Mihai Macovei
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review B, 88 125306 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5826
abstract: The possibility of steady-state population inversion in a small sample of strongly driven two-level emitters like quantum dots (QDs) in micro-cavities, and its utilization towards amplification of light and acoustic waves is investigated theoretically. We find that inversion and absorption spectrum of photons, and phonons crucially depend on the interplay between the intrinsic vacuum and phonon environments. The absorption profiles of photons and phonons show marked novel features like gain instead of transparency and absorption reversed to gain, respectively. Furthermore, we report collectivity induced substantial enhancement of inversion and pronounced gain in the photon, and phonon absorption spectrum for a wavelength size QD ensemble.

id: 1303.5833
title: On the mathematical treatment of the Born-Oppenheimer approximation
authors: Thierry Jecko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5833
abstract: Motivated by a paper by B.T. Sutcliffe and R.G. Woolley, we present the main ideas used by mathematicians to show the accuracy of the Born-Oppenheimer approximation for molecules. Based on mathematical works on this approximation for molecular bound states, in scattering theory, in resonance theory, and for short time evolution, we give an overview of some rigourous results obtained up to now. We also point out the main difficulties mathematicians are trying to overcome and speculate on further developments. The mathematical approach does not fit exactly to the common use of the approximation in Physics and Chemistry. We criticize the latter and comment on the differences, contributing in this way to the discussion on the Born-Oppenheimer approximation initiated by B.T. Sutcliffe and R.G. Woolley. The paper neither contains mathematical statements nor proofs. Instead we try to make accessible mathematically rigourous results on the subject to researchers in Quantum Chemistry or Physics.

id: 1303.5858
title: The nonlocal Darboux transformation of the 2D stationary Schr?dinger equation and its relation to the Moutard transformation
authors: Andrey Kudryavtsev
comments: 15 pages; new references added in v2; corrected typos in v3
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5858
abstract: The nonlocal Darboux transformation of the two - dimensional stationary Schr\"odinger equation is considered and its relation to the Moutard transformation is established. It is shown that a special case of the nonlocal Darboux transformation provides the Moutard transformation. New examples of solvable two - dimensional stationary Schr\"odinger operators with smooth potentials are obtained as an application of the nonlocal Darboux transformation.

id: 1303.5883
title: Single-Particle Momentum Distributions of Efimov States in Mixed-Species Systems
authors: M. T. Yamashita, F. F. Bellotti, T. Frederico, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures, 1 appendix, revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062702 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5883
abstract: We solve the three-body bound state problem in three dimensions for mass imbalanced systems of two identical bosons and a third particle in the universal limit where the interactions are assumed to be of zero-range. The system displays the Efimov effect and we use the momentum-space wave equation to derive formulas for the scaling factor of the Efimov spectrum for any mass ratio assuming either that two or three of the two-body subsystems have a bound state at zero energy. We consider the single-particle momentum distribution analytically and numerically and analyse the tail of the momentum distribution to obtain the three-body contact parameter. Our finding demonstrate that the functional form of the three-body contact term depends on the mass ratio and we obtain an analytic expression for this behavior. To exemplify our results, we consider mixtures of Lithium with either two Caesium or Rubium atoms which are systems of current experimental interest.

id: 1303.5892
title: A classical simulation of nonlinear Jaynes--Cummings and Rabi models in photonic lattices
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, Francisco Soto-Eguibar, Alejandro Z¨¢rate C¨¢rdenas, H. M. Moya-Cessa
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Express 21, 12888-12898 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5892
abstract: The interaction of a two-level atom with a single-mode quantized field is one of the simplest models in quantum optics. Under the rotating wave approximation, it is known as the Jaynes-Cummings model and without it as the Rabi model. Real-world realizations of the Jaynes-Cummings model include cavity, ion trap and circuit quantum electrodynamics. The Rabi model can be realized in circuit quantum electrodynamics. As soon as nonlinear couplings are introduced, feasible experimental realizations in quantum systems are drastically reduced. We propose a set of two photonic lattices that classically simulates the interaction of a single two-level system with a quantized field under field nonlinearities and nonlinear couplings as long as the quantum optics model conserves parity. We describe how to reconstruct the mean value of quantum optics measurements, such as photon number and atomic energy excitation, from the intensity and from the field, such as von Neumann entropy and fidelity, at the output of the photonic lattices. We discuss how typical initial states involving coherent or displaced Fock fields can be engineered from recently discussed Glauber-Fock lattices. As an example, the Buck-Sukumar model, where the coupling depends on the intensity of the field, is classically simulated for separable and entangled initial states.

id: 1303.5935
title: Polarization properties of 'slow' light
authors: V.A. Reshetov, I.V. Meleshko
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Opt. Commun. 309 (2013) 192
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5935
abstract: The propagation of the arbitrarily polarized pulse of the weak probe field through the resonant medium of Lambda-type three-level atoms with degenerate levels adiabatically driven by the coherent coupling field is considered. It is shown that such pulse is decomposed in the medium into two orthogonally polarized dark-state polaritons propagating with different group velocities. The expressions for the polarizations and group velocities of these two polaritons are obtained. The dependence of these polarizations and group velocities on the values of the angular momenta of resonant levels, on the polarization of the coupling field and on the initial atomic state is studied.

id: 1303.5939
title: Three-body bound states in atomic mixtures with resonant p-wave interaction
authors: Maxim A. Efremov, Lev Plimak, Misha Yu. Ivanov, Wolfgang P. Schleich
comments: 5 pages, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 113201 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5939
abstract: We employ the Born-Oppenheimer approximation to find the effective potential in a three-body system consisting of a light particle and two heavy ones when the heavy-light short-range interaction potential has a resonance corresponding to a non-zero orbital angular momentum. In the case of an exact resonance in the p-wave scattering amplitude, the effective potential is attractive and long-range, namely it decreases as the third power of the inter-atomic distance. Moreover, we show that the range and power of the potential, as well as the number of bound states are determined by the mass ratio of the particles and the parameters of the heavy-light short-range potential.

id: 1303.5942
title: Exact simulation of the GHZ distribution
authors: Gilles Brassard, Luc Devroye, Claude Gravel
comments: Completely rewritten for clarity. 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5942
abstract: John Bell has shown that the correlations entailed by quantum mechanics cannot be reproduced by a classical process involving non-communicating parties. But can they be simulated with the help of bounded communication? This problem has been studied for more than twenty years and it is now well understood in the case of bipartite entanglement. However, the issue was still widely open for multipartite entanglement, even for the simulation of arbitrary von Neumann measurements on the tripartite GHZ state. Here, we give a complete solution for general n-partite GHZ states: von Neumann measurements can be simulated exactly with O(n^2) bits of expected communication, and O(n log n) time is sufficient to carry out the protocol in parallel. Furthermore, only one party needs to be probabilistic and it needs to draw only O(n) unbiased random bits. In the case of equatorial measurements, we improve earlier results with a protocol that needs only O(n log n) bits of communication and O(n) parallel time. At the cost of a slight increase in the number of bits communicated, these tasks can be accomplished with a constant expected number of rounds.

id: 1303.6007
title: On the Possibility of Quantum Informational Structural Realism
authors: Terrell Ward Bynum
comments: 16 pages, 0 figures This article is scheduled to be published in the journal Minds and Machines in late 2013 or early 2014
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6007
abstract: In The Philosophy of Information (2011 book), Luciano Floridi presents an ontological theory of Being qua Being, which he calls "Informational Structural Realism", a theory which applies, he says, to every possible world. He identifies primordial information ("dedomena") as the foundation of any structure in any possible world. The present essay examines Floridi's defense of that theory, as well as his refutation of "Digital Ontology" (which some people might confuse with his own). Then, using Floridi's ontology as a starting point, the present essay adds quantum features to dedomena, yielding an ontological theory for our own universe, Quantum Informational Structural Realism, which provides a metaphysical interpretation of key quantum phenomena, and diminishes the "weirdness" or "spookiness" of quantum mechanics. Key Words: digital ontology, dedomena, structural realism, quantum information, primordial qubit

id: 1303.6034
title: ZKCM: a C++ library for multiprecision matrix computation with applications in quantum information
authors: Akira SaiToh
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Comput. Phys. Comm.; this is an extended version of arXiv:1111.3124, v2: typographical corrections only
journal: Comput. Phys. Comm. 184, 2005-2020 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Software (cs.MS); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6034
abstract: ZKCM is a C++ library developed for the purpose of multiprecision matrix computation, on the basis of the GNU MP and MPFR libraries. It provides an easy-to-use syntax and convenient functions for matrix manipulations including those often used in numerical simulations in quantum physics. Its extension library, ZKCM_QC, is developed for simulating quantum computing using the time-dependent matrix-product-state simulation method. This paper gives an introduction about the libraries with practical sample programs.

id: 1303.6045
title: Nonadiabatic Quantum Annealing for One-Dimensional Trasverse-Field Ising Model
authors: Hitoshi Katsuda, Hidetoshi Nishimori
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6045
abstract: We propose a nonadiabatic approach to quantum annealing, in which we repeat quantum annealing in nonadiabatic time scales, and collect the final states of many realizations to find the ground state among them. In this way, we replace the diffculty of long annealing time in adiabatic quantum annealing by another problem of the number of nonsidabatic (short-time) trials. The one-dimensional transverse-field Ising model is used to test this idea, and it is shown that nonadiabatic quantum annealing has the same computational complexity to find the ground state as the conventional adiabatic annealing does. This result implies that the nonadiabatic method may be used to replace adiabatic annealing to avoid the effects of external disturbances, to which the adiabatic method is more prone than the nonadiabatic counterpart.

id: 1303.6123
title: Higher-Order Kinetic Expansion of Quantum Dissipative Dynamics: Mapping Quantum Networks to Kinetic Networks
authors: Jianlan Wu, Jianshu Cao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6123
abstract: We apply a new formalism to derive the higher-order quantum kinetic expansion (QKE) for studying dissipative dynamics in a general quantum network coupled with an arbitrary thermal bath. The dynamics of system population is described by a time-convoluted kinetic equation, where the time-nonlocal rate kernel is systematically expanded on the order of off-diagonal elements of the system Hamiltonian. In the second order, the rate kernel recovers the expression of the noninteracting-blip approximation (NIBA) method. The higher-order corrections in the rate kernel account for the effects of the multi-site quantum coherence and the bath relaxation. In a quantum harmonic bath, the rate kernels of different orders are analytically derived. As demonstrated by four examples, the higher-order QKE can reliably predict quantum dissipative dynamics, comparing well with the hierarchic equation approach. More importantly, the higher-order rate kernels can distinguish and quantify distinct nontrivial quantum coherent effects, such as long-range energy transfer from quantum tunneling and quantum interference arising from the phase accumulation of interactions.

id: 1303.6176
title: Vacuum fluctuations and generalized boundary conditions
authors: C.D. Fosco, F.C. Lombardo, F.D. Mazzitelli
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6176
abstract: We present a study of the static and dynamical Casimir effects for a quantum field theory satisfying generalized Robin boundary condition, of a kind that arises naturally within the context of quantum circuits. Since those conditions may also be relevant to measurements of the dynamical Casimir effect, we evaluate their role in the concrete example of a real scalar field in 1+1 dimensions, a system which has a well-known mechanical analogue involving a loaded string.

id: 1303.6203
title: Walk Entropies in Graphs
authors: Ernesto Estrada, Jose A. de la Pena, Naomichi Hatano
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6203
abstract: Entropies based on walks on graphs and on their line-graphs are defined. They are based on the summation over diagonal and off-diagonal elements of the thermal Green's function of a graph also known as the communicability. The walk entropies are strongly related to the walk regularity of graphs and line-graphs. They are not biased by the graph size and have significantly better correlation with the inverse participation ratio of the eigenmodes of the adjacency matrix than other graph entropies. The temperature dependence of the walk entropies is also discussed. In particular, the walk entropy of graphs is shown to be non-monotonic for regular but non-walk-regular graphs in contrast to non-regular graphs.

id: 1303.6273
title: Quantum Mechanics in Noninertial Reference Frames: Violations of the Nonrelativistic Equivalence Principle
authors: W.H. Klink, S. Wickramasekara
comments: 31 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6273
abstract: In previous work we have developed a formulation of quantum mechanics in non-inertial reference frames. This formulation is grounded in a class of unitary cocycle representations of what we have called the Galilean line group, the generalization of the Galilei group that includes transformations amongst non-inertial reference frames. These representations show that in quantum mechanics, just as is the case in classical mechanics, the transformations to accelerating reference frames give rise to fictitious forces. A special feature of these previously constructed representations is that they all respect the non-relativistic equivalence principle, wherein the fictitious forces associated with linear acceleration can equivalently be described by gravitational forces. In this paper we exhibit a large class of cocycle representations of the Galilean line group that violate the equivalence principle. Nevertheless the classical mechanics analogue of these cocycle representations all respect the equivalence principle.

id: 1303.6274
title: Quantum Mechanics in non-inertial reference frames: time-dependent rotations and loop prolongations
authors: W.H. Klink, S. Wickramasekara
comments: 40 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6274
abstract: This is the fourth in a series of papers on developing a formulation of quantum mechanics in non-inertial reference frames. This formulation is grounded in a class of unitary cocycle representations of what we have called the Galilean line group, the generalization of the Galilei group to include transformations amongst non-inertial reference frames. These representations show that in quantum mechanics, just as the case in classical mechanics, the transformations to accelerating reference frames give rise to fictitious forces. In previous work, we have shown that there exist representations of the Galilean line group that uphold the non-relativistic equivalence principle as well as representations that violate the equivalence principle. In these previous studies, the focus was on linear accelerations. In this paper, we undertake an extension of the formulation to include rotational accelarations. We show that the incorporation of rotational accelerations requires a class of \emph{loop prolongations} of the Galilean line group and their unitary cocycle representations. We recover the centrifugal and Coriolis force effects from these loop representations. Loops are more general than groups in that their multiplication law need not be associative. Hence, our broad theoretical claim is that a Galilean quantum theory that holds in arbitrary non-inertial reference frames requires going beyond groups and group representations, the well-stablished framework for implementing symmetry transformations in quantum mechanics.

id: 1303.6353
title: Heat transport in the $XXZ$ spin chain: from ballistic to diffusive regimes and dephasing enhancement
authors: J. J. Mendoza-Arenas, S. Al-Assam, S. R. Clark, D. Jaksch
comments: 
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P07007
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6353
abstract: In this work we study the heat transport in an XXZ spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain with homogeneous magnetic field, incoherently driven out of equilibrium by reservoirs at the boundaries. We focus on the effect of bulk dephasing (energy-dissipative) processes in different parameter regimes of the system. The non-equilibrium steady state of the chain is obtained by simulating its evolution under the corresponding Lindblad master equation, using the time evolving block decimation method. In the absence of dephasing, the heat transport is ballistic for weak interactions, while being diffusive in the strongly-interacting regime, as evidenced by the heat-current scaling with the system size. When bulk dephasing takes place in the system, diffusive transport is induced in the weakly-interacting regime, with the heat current monotonically decreasing with the dephasing rate. In contrast, in the strongly-interacting regime, the heat current can be significantly enhanced by dephasing for systems of small size.

id: 1303.6393
title: The second law of thermodynamics for pure quantum states
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Takashi Hara, Hal Tasaki
comments: 5 pages, endnotes [18], [20] are added for clarification in version 2. A major revision in version 3; the proof is drastically simplified, the discussion is extended, new references are added, and the two authors are added
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6393
abstract: A version of the second law of thermodynamics states that one cannot lower the energy of an isolated system by a cyclic operation. We prove this law without introducing statistical ensembles and by resorting only to quantum mechanics. We choose the initial state as a pure quantum state whose energy is almost E_0 but not too sharply concentrated at energy eigenvalues. Then after an arbitrary unitary time evolution which follows a typical "waiting time", the probability of observing the energy lower than E_0 is proved to be negligibly small.

id: 1303.6439
title: Accurate Complex Scaling of Three Dimensional Numerical Potentials
authors: Alessandro Cerioni, Luigi Genovese, Ivan Duchemin, Thierry Deutsch
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6439
abstract: The complex scaling method, which consists in continuing spatial coordinates into the complex plane, is a well-established method that allows to compute resonant eigenfunctions of the time-independent Schroedinger operator. Whenever it is desirable to apply the complex scaling to investigate resonances in physical systems defined on numerical discrete grids, the most direct approach relies on the application of a similarity transformation to the original, unscaled Hamiltonian. We show that such an approach can be conveniently implemented in the Daubechies wavelet basis set, featuring a very promising level of generality, high accuracy, and no need for artificial convergence parameters. Complex scaling of three dimensional numerical potentials can be efficiently and accurately performed. By carrying out an illustrative resonant state computation in the case of a one-dimensional model potential, we then show that our wavelet-based approach may disclose new exciting opportunities in the field of computational non-Hermitian quantum mechanics.

id: 1303.6655
title: Crossover physics in the non-equilibrium dynamics of quenched quantum impurity systems
authors: Romain Vasseur, Kien Trinh, Stephan Haas, Hubert Saleur
comments: 4.5 pages + supplementary material. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 240601 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6655
abstract: A general framework is proposed to tackle analytically local quantum quenches in integrable impurity systems, combining a mapping onto a boundary problem with the form factor approach to boundary-condition-changing operators introduced in Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 4370 (1998). We discuss how to compute exactly two central quantities of interest: the Loschmidt echo and the distribution of the work done during the quantum quench. Our results display an interesting crossover physics characterized by the energy scale T_b of the impurity corresponding to the Kondo temperature. We discuss in detail the non-interacting case as a paradigm and benchmark for more complicated integrable impurity models, and check our results using numerical methods.

id: 1303.6658
title: Open quantum random walks: bi-stability on pure states and ballistically induced diffusion
authors: Michel Bauer, Denis Bernard, Antoine Tilloy
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A88, 062340 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6658
abstract: Open quantum random walks (OQRWs) deal with quantum random motions on the line for systems with internal and orbital degrees of freedom. The internal system behaves as a quantum random gyroscope coding for the direction of the orbital moves. We reveal the existence of a transition, depending on OQRW moduli, in the internal system behaviors from simple oscillations to random flips between two unstable pure states. This induces a transition in the orbital motions from usual diffusion to ballistically induced diffusion with large mean free path and large effective diffusion constant at large time. We also show that mixed states of the internal system are converted into random pure states during the process. We touch upon possible experimental realizations.

id: 1303.6730
title: Fluorescence thermometry enhanced by the quantum coherence of single spins in diamond
authors: David M. Toyli, Charles F. de las Casas, David J. Christle, Viatcheslav V. Dobrovitski, David D. Awschalom
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, online early edition (2013)
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 110, 8417 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6730
abstract: We demonstrate fluorescence thermometry techniques with sensitivities approaching 10 mK Hz^(-1/2) based on the spin-dependent photoluminescence of nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers in diamond. These techniques use dynamical decoupling protocols to convert thermally induced shifts in the NV center's spin resonance frequencies into large changes in its fluorescence. By mitigating interactions with nearby nuclear spins and facilitating selective thermal measurements, these protocols enhance the spin coherence times accessible for thermometry by 45x, corresponding to a 7x improvement in the NV center's temperature sensitivity. Moreover, we demonstrate these techniques can be applied over a broad temperature range and in both finite and near-zero magnetic field environments. This versatility suggests that the quantum coherence of single spins could be practically leveraged for sensitive thermometry in a wide variety of biological and microscale systems.

id: 1303.6844
title: Magnetic effects in curved quantum waveguides
authors: David Krejcirik, Nicolas Raymond
comments: 28 pages
journal: Ann. Henri Poincare 15 (2014), 1993-2024
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6844
abstract: The interplay among the spectrum, geometry and magnetic field in tubular neighbourhoods of curves in Euclidean spaces is investigated in the limit when the cross section shrinks to a point. Proving a norm resolvent convergence, we derive effective, lower-dimensional models which depend on the intensity of the magnetic field and curvatures. The results are used to establish complete asymptotic expansions for eigenvalues. Spectral stability properties based on Hardy-type inequalities induced by magnetic fields are also analysed.

id: 1303.6851
title: Uncertainty Principle Respects Locality
authors: Dongsheng Wang
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a loophole in the argument of the classical bound
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6851
abstract: The notion of nonlocality implicitly implies there might be some kind of spooky action at a distance in nature, however, the validity of quantum mechanics has been well tested up to now. In this work it is argued that the notion of nonlocality is physically improper, the basic principle of locality in nature is well respected by quantum mechanics, namely, the uncertainty principle. We show that the quantum bound on the Clauser, Horne, Shimony, and Holt (CHSH) inequality can be recovered from the uncertainty relation in a multipartite setting. We further argue that the super-quantum correlation demonstrated by the nonlocal box is not physically comparable with the quantum one. The origin of the quantum structure of nature still remains to be explained, some post-quantum theory which is more complete in some sense than quantum mechanics is possible and might not necessarily be a hidden variable theory.

id: 1303.6858
title: The (2+1)-d U(1) Quantum Link Model Masquerading as Deconfined Criticality
authors: D. Banerjee, F.-J. Jiang, P. Widmer, U.-J. Wiese
comments: 4.5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6858
abstract: The $(2+1)$-d U(1) quantum link model is a gauge theory, amenable to quantum simulation, with a spontaneously broken SO(2) symmetry emerging at a quantum phase transition. Its low-energy physics is described by a $(2+1)$-d $\RP(1)$ effective field theory, perturbed by a dangerously irrelevant SO(2) breaking operator, which prevents the interpretation of the emergent pseudo-Goldstone boson as a dual photon. At the quantum phase transition, the model mimics some features of deconfined quantum criticality, but remains linearly confining. Deconfinement only sets in at high temperature.

id: 1303.6950
title: Dynamically corrected gates for an exchange-only qubit
authors: G. T. Hickman, Xin Wang, J. P. Kestner, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, + 5 pages supplemental information
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 161303(R) (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6950
abstract: We provide analytical composite pulse sequences that perform dynamical decoupling concurrently with arbitrary rotations for a qubit coded in the spin state of a triple quantum dot. The sequences are designed to respect realistic experimental constraints such as strictly nonnegative couplings. Logical errors and leakage errors are simultaneously corrected. A short pulse sequence is presented to compensate nuclear noise and a longer sequence is presented to simultaneously compensate nuclear and charge noise. The capability developed in this work provides a clear prescription for combatting the relevant sources of noise that currently hinder exchange-only qubit experiments.

id: 1303.6965
title: Full Counting Statistics of Photons Emitted by Double Quantum Dot
authors: Canran Xu, Maxim G. Vavilov
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 195307 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6965
abstract: We analyze the full counting statistics of photons emitted by a double quantum dot (DQD) coupled to a high-quality microwave resonator by electric dipole interaction. We show that at the resonant condition between the energy splitting of the DQD and the photon energy in the resonator, photon statistics exhibits both a sub-Poissonian distribution and antibunching. In the ideal case, when the system decoherence stems only from photodetection, the photon noise is reduced below one-half of the noise for the Poisson distribution and is consistent with current noise. The photon distribution remains sub-Poissonian even at moderate decoherence in the DQD. We demonstrate that Josephson junction based photomultipliers can be used to experimentally assess statistics of emitted photons.

id: 1303.6996
title: Electromagnetically-induced transparency in a diamond spin ensemble enables all-optical electromagnetic field sensing
authors: Victor M. Acosta, Kasper Jensen, Charles Santori, Dmitry Budker, Rymond G. Beausoleil
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 213605 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6996
abstract: We use electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT) to probe the narrow electron-spin resonance of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond. Working with a multi-pass diamond chip at temperatures 6-30 K, the zero-phonon absorption line (637 nm) exhibits an optical depth of 6 and inhomogenous linewidth of ~30 GHz full-width-at-half-maximum (FWHM). Simultaneous optical excitation at two frequencies separated by the ground-state zero-field splitting (2.88 GHz), reveals EIT resonances with a contrast exceeding 6% and FWHM down to 0.4 MHz. The resonances provide an all-optical probe of external electric and magnetic fields with a projected photon-shot-noise-limited sensitivity of 0.2 V/cm/sqrt(Hz) and 0.1 nT/sqrt(Hz), respectively. Operation of a prototype diamond-EIT magnetometer measures a noise floor of less than 1 nT/sqrt(Hz) for frequencies above 10 Hz and Allan deviation of 1.3 +/- 1.1 nT for 100 s intervals. The results demonstrate the potential of diamond-EIT devices for applications ranging from quantum-optical memory to few-photon nonlinear optics, precision measurement, and tests of fundamental physics.

id: 1303.7019
title: Local Geometric Phase and Quantum State Tomography in a Superconducting Qubit
authors: Kicheon Kang
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7019
abstract: We investigate quantum state reconstruction of a superconducting qubit threaded by an Aharonov-Bohm flux, with particular attention to the local geometric phase. A state reconstruction scheme is introduced with a proper account of the local geometric phase generated by Faraday's law of induction. Our scheme is based on measurement of three complementary quantities, that is, the extra charge and two local currents. Incorporating time-reversal symmetry and the Faraday's law, we show that the full density matrix can be reconstructed without ambiguity in the choice of gauge. This procedure clearly demonstrates that the quantum Faraday effect plays an essential role in the dynamics of a quantum system that involves Aharonov-Bohm flux.

id: 1303.7045
title: Correlated many-body calculation to study characteristics of Shannon information entropy for ultracold trapped interacting bosons
authors: Sudip Kumar Haldar, Barnali Chakrabarti, Tapan Kumar Das, Anindya Biswas
comments: Accepted in Physical Review A (2013)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7045
abstract: A correlated many-body calculation is presented to characterize the Shannon information entropy of trapped interacting bosons. We reformulate the one-body Shannon information entropy in terms of the one-body probability density. The minimum limit of the entropy uncertainty relation (EUR) is approached by making $N$ very small in our numerical work. We examine the effect of correlations in the calculation of information entropy. Comparison with the mean-field result shows that the correlated basis function is indeed required to characterize the important features of the information entropies. We also accurately calculate the point of critical instability of an attractive BEC, which is in close agreement with the experimental value. Next we calculate two-body entropies in position and momentum spaces and study quantum correlations in the attractive BEC.

id: 1303.7104
title: Edge states and topological properties of electrons on the bismuth on silicon surface with giant spin-orbit coupling
authors: D.V. Khomitsky, A.A. Chubanov
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Physics, 2014, vol. 118, No. 3, pp. 457-466
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7104
abstract: We derive a model of localized edge states in the finite width strip for two-dimensional electron gas formed in the hybrid system of bismuth monolayer deposited on the silicon interface and described by the nearly-free electron model with giant spin-orbit splitting. The edge states have the energy dispersion in the bulk energy gap with the Dirac-like linear dependence on the quasimomentum and the spin polarization coupled to the direction of propagation, demonstrating the properties of topological insulator. The topological stability of edge states is confirmed by the calculations of the $Z_2$ invariant taken from the structure of the Pfaffian for the time reversal operator for the filled bulk bands in the surface Brillouin zone which is shown to have a stable number of zeros with the variations of material parameters. The proposed properties of the edge states may support future advances in experimental and technological applications of this new material in nanoelectronics and spintronics.

id: 1303.7140
title: Effective Beam Separation Schemes for the Measurement of the Electric Aharonov-Bohm Effect in an Ion Interferometer
authors: Georg Sch¨¹tz, Alexander Rembold, Andreas Pooch, Henrike Prochel, Alexander Stibor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7140
abstract: We propose an experiment for the first proof of the type I electric Aharonov-Bohm effect in an ion interferometer for hydrogen. The performances of three different beam separation schemes are simulated and compared. The coherent ion beam is generated by a single atom tip (SAT) source and separated by either two biprisms with a quadrupole lens, two biprisms with an einzel-lens or three biprisms. The beam path separation is necessary to introduce two metal tubes that can be pulsed with different electric potentials. The high time resolution of a delay line detector allows to work with a continuous ion beam and circumvents the pulsed beam operation as originally suggested by Aharonov and Bohm. We demonstrate, that the higher mass and therefore lower velocity of ions compared to electrons combined with the high expected SAT ion emission puts the direct proof of this quantum effect for the first time into reach of current technical possibilities. Thereby a high coherent ion detection rate is crucial to avoid long integration times that allow the influence of dephasing noise from the environment. We can determine the period of the expected matter wave interference pattern and the signal on the detector by determining the superposition angle of the coherent partial beams. Our simulations were tested with an electron interferometer setup and agree with the experimental results. We determine the separation scheme with three biprisms to be most efficient and predict a total signal acquisition time of only 80 s to measure a phase shift from 0 to 2$\pi$ due to the electric Aharonov-Bohm effect.

id: 1303.7150
title: New ladder operators for a rational extension of the harmonic oscillator and superintegrability of some two-dimensional systems
authors: I. Marquette, C. Quesne
comments: 22 pages, published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54 (2013) 102102, 12 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7150
abstract: New ladder operators are constructed for a rational extension of the harmonic oscillator associated with type III Hermite exceptional orthogonal polynomials and characterized by an even integer $m$. The eigenstates of the Hamiltonian separate into $m+1$ infinite-dimensional unitary irreducible representations of the corresponding polynomial Heisenberg algebra. These ladder operators are used to construct a higher-order integral of motion for two superintegrable two-dimensional systems separable in cartesian coordinates. The polynomial algebras of such systems provide for the first time an algebraic derivation of the whole spectrum through their finite-dimensional unitary irreducible representations.

id: 1303.7157
title: New Diluted Ferromagnetic Semiconductor isostructural to 122 type iron pnictide superconductor with TC up to 180 K
authors: K. Zhao, Z. Deng, X. C. Wang, W. Han, J. L. Zhu, X. Li, Q.Q. Liu, R.C. Yu, T. Goko, B. Frandsen, Lian Liu, Fanlong Ning, Y.J. Uemura, H. Dabkowska, G.M. Luke, H. Luetkens, E. Morenzoni, S.R. Dunsiger, A. Senyshyn, P. B?ni, C.Q. Jin
comments: 12 pages, 3 Figures, 3 tables
journal: Nature Communications 4:1442 | DOI: 10.1038(2013)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7157
abstract: Diluted magnetic semiconductors (DMS) have received much attention due to its potential applications to spintronics devices. A prototypical system (Ga,Mn)As has been widely studied since 1990s. The simultaneous spin and charge doping via hetero-valence (Ga3+,Mn2+) substitution, however, resulted in severely limited solubility without availability of bulk specimens. Previously we synthesized a new diluted ferromagnetic semiconductor of bulk Li(Zn,Mn)As with Tc up to 50K, where isovalent (Zn,Mn) spin doping was separated from charge control via Li concentrations. Here we report the synthesis of a new diluted ferromagnetic semiconductor (Ba1-xKx)(Zn1-yMny)2As2, isostructural to iron 122 system, where holes are doped via (Ba2+, K1+), while spins via (Zn2+,Mn2+) substitutions. Bulk samples with x=0.1-0.3 and y=0.05-0.15 exhibit ferromagnetic order with TC up to 180K, comparable to that of record high Tc for Ga(MnAs), significantly enhanced than Li(Zn,Mn)As. Moreover the (Ba,K)(Zn,Mn)2As2 shares the same 122 crystal structure with semiconducting BaZn2As2, antiferromagnetic BaMn2As2, and superconducting (Ba,K)Fe2As2, which makes them promising to the development of multilayer functional devices.

id: 1303.7193
title: On magnetic-field-induced dissipationless electric current in nanowires
authors: M. N. Chernodub
comments: 12 pages, 15 figures; v2: discussion expanded, figures and references added
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7193
abstract: We propose a general design of a metallic double-nanowire structure which may support an equilibrium dissipationless electric current in the presence of magnetic field. The structure consists of a compact wire element of a specific shape, which is periodically extended in one spatial dimension. Topologically, each wire element is equivalent to a ring, which supports a dissipationless current in the presence of magnetic flux similarly to the persistent electric current in a normal metal nanoring. Geometrically, each wire element breaks spatial inversion symmetry so that the equilibrium electric current through the device becomes nonzero. We also argue that the same effect should exist in long planar chiral nanoribbons subjected to external magnetic field.

id: 1303.7207
title: Orbital entanglement in bond-formation processes
authors: Katharina Boguslawski, Pawel Tecmer, Gergely Barcza, Ors Legeza, Markus Reiher
comments: 42 pages, 10 figures, 11 tables, incl. supp. inf
journal: J. Chem. Theory Comput., 2013, 9 (7), pp 2959-2973
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7207
abstract: The accurate calculation of the (differential) correlation energy is central to the quantum chemical description of bond-formation and bond-dissociation processes. In order to estimate the quality of single- and multi-reference approaches for this purpose, various diagnostic tools have been developed. In this work, we elaborate on our previous observation [J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 3, 3129 (2012)] that one- and two-orbital-based entanglement measures provide quantitative means for the assessment and classification of electron correlation effects among molecular orbitals. The dissociation behavior of some prototypical diatomic molecules features all types of correlation effects relevant for chemical bonding. We demonstrate that our entanglement analysis is convenient to dissect these electron correlation effects and to provide a conceptual understanding of bond-forming and bond-breaking processes from the point of view of quantum information theory.

id: 1303.7249
title: Multiple scattering of light in cold atomic clouds with a magnetic field
authors: Olivier Sigwarth, Guillaume Labeyrie, Dominique Delande, Christian Miniatura
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7249
abstract: Starting from a microscopic theory for atomic scatterers, we describe the scattering of light by a single atom and study the coherent propagation of light in a cold atomic cloud in the presence of a magnetic field B in the mesoscopic regime. Non-pertubative expressions in B are given for the magneto-optical effects and optical anisotropy. We then consider the multiple scattering regime and address the fate of the coherent backscattering (CBS) effect. We show that, for atoms with nonzero spin in their ground state, the CBS interference contrast can be increased compared to its value when B=0, a result at variance with classical samples. We validate our theoretical results by a quantitative comparison with experimental data.

id: 1303.7351
title: Comparing and contrasting nuclei and cold atomic gases
authors: N. T. Zinner, A. S. Jensen
comments: 68 pages, 14 figures, abridged abstract
journal: J. Phys. G: Nucl. Part. Phys. 40 (2013) 053101
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7351
abstract: The experimental revolution in ultracold atomic gas physics over the past decades have brought tremendous amounts of new insight to the world of degenerate quantum systems. Here we compare and constrast the developments of cold atomic gases with the physics of nuclei since many concepts, techniques, and nomenclatures are common to both fields. However, nuclei are finite systems with interactions that are typically much more complicated than those of ultracold atomic gases. The simularities and differences must therefore be carefully addressed for a meaningful comparison and to facilitate fruitful crossdisciplinary activity. Universal results from atomic physics should have impact in certain limits of the nuclear domain. In particular, with advances in the trapping of few-body atomic systems we expect a more direct exchange of ideas and results.

id: 1303.7362
title: Exact analytical soliton solutions in dipolar BEC
authors: P. A. Andreev, L. S. Kuz'menkov
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D, v. 68, 270 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7362
abstract: The bright, dark and grey solitons are well-known soliton solutions of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation for the attractive and repulsive BEC. We consider solitons in the dipolar BEC of the fully polarized particles, speaking of the dipolar BEC we mean both the magnetized BEC and the electrically polarized BEC. We show that these two types of the dipolar BEC reveal different behavior of the collective excitations. This is related to the fact that the electric and the magnetic fields satisfy to the different pairs of the Maxwell equation set. Thus we consider them independently. We obtain exact analytical solutions for the bright, dark, and grey solitons in the magnetized (electrically polarized) BEC when they propagate parallel and perpendicular to an external magnetic (electric) field. Comparison of spectrum of the linear collective excitations for the two kinds of the dipolar BEC is presented as well.

id: 1303.7421
title: Fluctuation-Electromagnetic Interaction of Rotating Neutral Particle with the Surface: Relativistic Theory
authors: A.A. Kyasov, G.V. Dedkov
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7421
abstract: Based on the fluctuation-electromagnetic theory, we have calculated the retarded force of attraction, frictional moment and heating rate of a neutral particle rotating near a polarizable surface. The particle and surface are characterized by arbitrary material properties and temperatures. The surface is assumed to be in thermal equilibrium with vacuum environment.

id: 1303.7447
title: Emergence of Majorana modes in cylindrical nanowires
authors: Jong Soo Lim, Rosa L¨®pez, Lloren? Serra
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: EPL 103, 37004 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7447
abstract: We present calculations of Majorana edge modes in cylindrical nanowires of a semiconductor material with proximity-induced superconductivity. We consider a Rashba field along the transverse direction and an applied magnetic field in arbitrary orientation. Our analysis is based on exact numerical diagonalizations for the finite cylinder and on the complex band structure for the semi-infinite one. Orbital effects are responsible for a strong anisotropy of the critical field for which the effective gap vanishes. Robust Majorana modes are induced by the parallel field component and we find regimes with more than one Majorana mode on the same edge. Experimentally, they would manifest as a specific sequence of zero-bias conductances as a function of magnetic field. In the finite cylinder, a degradation of the Majorana modes due to interference of the two edges leads to oscillating non zero energies for large enough fields.

id: 1303.7449
title: Photon-mediated electron transport in hybrid circuit-QED
authors: Neill Lambert, Christian Flindt, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, final version
journal: Europhys. Lett. 103, 17005 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7449
abstract: We investigate photon-mediated transport processes in a hybrid circuit-QED structure consisting of two double quantum dots coupled to a common microwave cavity. Under suitable resonance conditions, electron transport in one double quantum dot is facilitated by the transport in the other dot via photon-mediated processes through the cavity. We calculate the average current in the quantum dots, the mean cavity photon occupation, and the current cross-correlations with both a full numerical simulation and a recursive perturbation scheme that allows us to include the influence of the cavity order-by-order in the couplings between the cavity and the quantum dot systems. We can then clearly identify the photon-mediated transport processes.

id: 1303.6756
title: Time Dependence of Particle Creation from Accelerating Mirrors
authors: Michael R.R. Good, Paul R. Anderson, Charles R. Evans
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D88, 025023 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6756
abstract: Particle production due to a quantized, massless, minimally coupled scalar field in two-dimensional flat spacetime with an accelerating mirror is investigated, with a focus on the time dependence of the process. We analyze first the classes of trajectories previously investigated by Carlitz and Willey and by Walker and Davies. We then analyze four new classes of trajectories, all of which can be expressed analytically and for which several ancillary properties can be derived analytically. The time dependence is investigated through the use of wave packets for the modes of the quantized field that are in the out vacuum state. It is shown for most of the trajectories studied that good time resolution of the particle production process can be obtained.

id: 1303.6975
title: Possible Emission of Cosmic $X$-- and $¦Ã$--rays by Unstable Particles at Late Times
authors: K. Urbanowski, K. Raczynska
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physics Letters B731(2014)236
subjects: High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.6975
abstract: Not all astrophysical mechanisms of the emission of electromagnetic radiation including $X$-- and $\gamma$-- rays coming from the space are clear. We find that charged unstable particles as well as neutral unstable particles with non--zero magnetic moment which live sufficiently long may emit electromagnetic radiation. This new mechanism is connected with the properties of unstable particles at the post exponential time region. Analyzing the transition time region between exponential and non-exponential form of the survival amplitude it is found that the instantaneous energy of the unstable particle can take very large values, much larger than the energy of this state for times from the exponential time region. Basing on the results obtained for the model considered, it is shown that this purely quantum mechanical effect may be responsible for causing unstable particles to emit electromagnetic--, $X$-- or $\gamma$--rays at some time intervals from the transition time regions.

id: 1303.0305
title: An exact real-space renormalization method and applications
authors: Adrian E. Feiguin, Rolando D. Somma, Cristian D. Batista
comments: 10 pages, 8 Figs. Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 075145 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0305
abstract: We present a numerical method based on real-space renormalization that outputs the exact ground space of "frustration-free" Hamiltonians. The complexity of our method is polynomial in the degeneracy of the ground spaces of the Hamiltonians involved in the renormalization steps. We apply the method to obtain the full ground spaces of two spin systems. The first system is a spin-1/2 Heisenberg model with four-spin cyclic-exchange interactions defined on a square lattice. In this case, we study finite lattices of up to 160 spins and find a triplet ground state that differs from the singlet ground states obtained in C.D. Batista and S. Trugman, Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 217202 (2004). We characterize such a triplet state as consisting of a triplon that propagates in a background of fluctuating singlet dimers. The second system is a family of spin-1/2 Heisenberg chains with uniaxial exchange anisotropy and next-nearest neighbor interactions. In this case, the method finds a ground-space degeneracy that scales quadratically with the system size and outputs the full ground space efficiently. Our method can substantially outperform methods based on exact diagonalization and is more efficient than other renormalization methods when the ground-space degeneracy is large.

id: 1303.0694
title: The Relevance of the Preparation Concept in the Interpretation of Quantum Formalism
authors: M. Ferrero, V. G¨®mez-Pin, D. Salgado, J.L. S¨¢nchez-G¨®mez
comments: Updated version. 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0694
abstract: The preparation procedure, an undefined notion in quantum theory, has not had the relevance that it deserves in the interpretation of quantum mechanical formalism. Here we utilize the concepts of identical and similar preparation procedures to show the conceptual differences and mutual interconnections between the statistical and the conventional interpretation of quantum formalism. Although the statistical understanding, and its final logical consequence, hidden variables theories (this connexion being explained in the text), have a great intuitive appeal due to its fewer ontological difficulties, both recent experimental results and some theoretical developments seem to support an epistemic alternative closer to the conventional one. Nevertheless, we must not rule out the possibility that new theorems or new explanatory principles may modify the reigning supremacy of this interpretation.

id: 1303.0687
title: Lipkin's conservation law, Noether's theorem, and the relation to optical helicity
authors: T.G. Philbin
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043843 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0687
abstract: A simple conserved quantity for electromagnetic fields in vacuum was discovered by Lipkin in 1964. In recent years this "zilch" has been used as a measure of the chirality of light. The conservation of optical zilch is here derived from a simple symmetry of the standard electromagnetic action. The symmetry transformation allows the identification of circularly polarized plane waves as zilch eigenstates. The same symmetry is present for electromagnetism in a homogeneous, dispersive medium, allowing the derivation of the zilch density and flux in such a medium. Optical helicity density and flux are also derived for a homogeneous, dispersive medium. For monochromatic beams in vacuum, optical zilch is proportional to optical helicity. This monochromatic zilch-helicity relation acquires a factor of the square of the phase index in a dispersive medium.

id: 1303.5922
title: Compass and Kitaev models -- Theory and Physical Motivations
authors: Zohar Nussinov, Jeroen van den Brink
comments: Review, 111 pages, 58 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5922
abstract: Compass models are theories of matter in which the couplings between the internal spin (or other relevant field) components are inherently spatially (typically, direction) dependent. Compass-type interactions appear in diverse physical systems including Mott insulators with orbital degrees of freedom (where interactions sensitively depend on the spatial orientation of the orbitals involved), the low energy effective theories of frustrated quantum magnets, systems with strong spin-orbit couplings (such as the iridates), vacancy centers, and cold atomic gases. Kitaev's models, in particular the compass variant on the honeycomb lattice, realize basic notions of topological quantum computing. The fundamental inter-dependence between internal (spin, orbital, or other) and external (i.e., spatial) degrees of freedom which underlies compass models generally leads to very rich behaviors including the frustration of (semi-)classical ordered states on non-frustrated lattices and to enhanced quantum effects prompting, in certain cases, the appearance of zero temperature quantum spin liquids. As a consequence of these frustrations, new types of symmetries and their associated degeneracies may appear. These intermediate symmetries lie midway between the extremes of global symmetries and local gauge symmetries and lead to effective dimensional reductions. We review compass models in a unified manner, paying close attention to exact consequences of these symmetries, and to thermal and quantum fluctuations that stabilize orders via order out of disorder effects. We review non-trivial statistics and the appearance of topological quantum orders in compass systems in which, by virtue of their intermediate symmetry standard orders do not arise. This is complemented by a survey of numerical results. Where appropriate theoretical and experimental results are compared.

id: 1303.0281
title: Systems, environments, and soliton rate equations: A non-Kolmogorovian framework for population dynamics
authors: Diederik Aerts, Marek Czachor, Maciej Kuna, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 51 pages, 15 eps figures
journal: Ecological Modelling 267, 80-92 (2013)
subjects: Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0281
abstract: Soliton rate equations are based on non-Kolmogorovian models of probability and naturally include autocatalytic processes. The formalism is not widely known but has great unexplored potential for applications to systems interacting with environments. Beginning with links of contextuality to non-Kolmogorovity we introduce the general formalism of soliton rate equations and work out explicit examples of subsystems interacting with environments. Of particular interest is the case of a soliton autocatalytic rate equation coupled to a linear conservative environment, a formal way of expressing seasonal changes. Depending on strength of the system-environment coupling we observe phenomena analogous to hibernation or even complete blocking of decay of a population.

id: 1303.3572
title: Constructing symmetric topological phases of bosons in three dimensions via fermionic projective construction and dyon condensation
authors: Peng Ye, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 22 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 045127 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3572
abstract: Recently, there is a considerable study on gapped symmetric phases of bosons that do not break any symmetry. Even without symmetry breaking, the bosons can still be in many exotic new states of matter, such as symmetry-protected trivial (SPT) phases which are short-range entangled and symmetry-enriched topological (SET) phases which are long-range entangled. It is well-known that non-interacting fermionic topological insulators are SPT states protected by time-reversal symmetry and U(1) fermion number conservation symmetry. In this paper, we construct three-dimensional exotic phases of bosons with time-reversal symmetry and boson number conservation U(1) symmetry by means of fermionic projective construction. We first construct an algebraic bosonic insulator which is a symmetric bosonic state with an emergent U(1) gapless gauge field. We then obtain many gapped bosonic states that do not break the time-reversal symmetry and boson number conservation via proper dyon condensations. We identify the constructed states by calculating the allowed electric and magnetic charges of their excitations, as well as the statistics and the symmetric transformation properties of those excitations. This allows us to show that our constructed states can be trivial SPT states (i.e. trivial Mott insulators of bosons with symmetry), non-trivial SPT states (i.e. bosonic topological insulators) and SET states (i.e. fractional bosonic topological insulators). In non-trivial SPT states, the elementary monopole (carrying zero electric charge but unit magnetic charge) and elementary dyon (carrying both unit electric charge and unit magnetic charge) are fermionic and bosonic, respectively. In SET states, intrinsic excitations may carry fractional charge.

id: 1303.1297
title: Superintegrable systems with spin invariant with respect to the rotation group
authors: A.G. Nikitin
comments: 24 pages, some misprints were corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 256204 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.1297
abstract: Quantum nonrelativistic systems with $2\times2$ matrix potentials are investigated. Physically, they simulate charged or neutral fermions with non-trivial dipole momenta, interacting with an external electric field. Assuming rotationally invariance of the Hamiltonian all such systems allowing second order integrals of motion are identified. It is shown that the integrals of motion can be effectively used to separate variables and to reduce the systems to decoupled ordinary differential equations. Solutions for two of the discussed problems are presented explicitly.

