id: 1304.0011
title: Controlling and measuring quantum transport of heat in trapped-ion crystals
authors: A. Bermudez, M. Bruderer, M. B. Plenio
comments: closer to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 040601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0011
abstract: Measuring heat flow through nanoscale systems poses formidable practical difficulties as there is no `ampere meter' for heat. We propose to overcome this problem by realizing heat transport through a chain of trapped ions. Laser cooling the chain edges to different temperatures induces a current of local vibrations (vibrons). We show how to efficiently control and measure this current, including fluctuations, by coupling vibrons to internal ion states. This demonstrates that ion crystals provide a suitable platform for studying quantum transport, e.g., through thermal analogues of quantum wires and quantum dots. Notably, ion crystals may give access to measurements of the elusive large fluctuations of bosonic currents and the onset of Fourier's law. These results are supported by numerical simulations for a realistic implementation with specific ions and system parameters.

id: 1304.0025
title: Dependence on state preparation of noise induced effects in multiqubit systems
authors: A.C. Tzemos, D.P.K. Ghikas
comments: 23 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0025
abstract: The perturbation of multiqubit systems by an external noise can induce various effects like decoherence, stochastic resonance and anti-resonance, and noise-shielding. We investigate how the appearance of these effects on disentanglement time depends on the initial preparation of the systems. We present results for 2, 3 and 4-qubit chains in various arrangements and observe a clear dependence on the combination of initial geometry of the state space and the placement of noise. Finally, we see that temperature can play a constructive role for the control of these noise induced effects.

id: 1304.0029
title: Weak Values Technique for Velocity Measurements
authors: Gerardo I. Viza, Juli¨¢n Mart¨ªnez-Rinc¨®n, Gregory A. Howland, Hadas Frostig, Itay Shomroni, Barak Dayan, John C. Howell
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 38, Issue 16, pp. 2949-2952 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0029
abstract: In a recent letter, Brunner and Simon propose an interferometric scheme using imaginary weak values with a frequency-domain analysis to outperform standard interferometry in longitudinal phase shifts [N. Brunner and C. Simon, Phys. Rev. Lett {\bf105} (2010)]. Here we demonstrate an interferometric scheme combined with a time-domain analysis to measure longitudinal velocities. The technique employs the near-destructive interference of non-Fourier limited pulses, one Doppler shifted due to a moving mirror, in a Michelson interferometer. We achieve a velocity measurement of 400 fm/s and show our estimator to be efficient by reaching its Cram\'{e}r-Rao bound.

id: 1304.0036
title: Tight bound on relative entropy by entropy difference
authors: David Reeb, Michael M. Wolf
comments: v2: 27 pages, 1 figure, gap in proof of Theorem 1 fixed, other minor changes, references updated; v3: 27 pages, 1 figure, small changes and improvements, one-column version of published paper
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 61, 1458-1473 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0036
abstract: We prove a lower bound on the relative entropy between two finite-dimensional states in terms of their entropy difference and the dimension of the underlying space. The inequality is tight in the sense that equality can be attained for any prescribed value of the entropy difference, both for quantum and classical systems. We outline implications for information theory and thermodynamics, such as a necessary condition for a process to be close to thermodynamic reversibility, or an easily computable lower bound on the classical channel capacity. Furthermore, we derive a tight upper bound, uniform for all states of a given dimension, on the variance of the surprisal, whose thermodynamic meaning is that of heat capacity.

id: 1304.0042
title: Towards Efficient Computation of Functional Determinants in QM and QFT
authors: Musa Maharramov
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0042
abstract: We present an overview of the existing methods for computing functional determinants, and outline a possible way forward for Hamiltonians of higher dimensions without radial symmetry.

id: 1304.0054
title: L¨¹ders Theorem for Unsharp Quantum Measurements
authors: Paul Busch, Javed Singh
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 249 10-12 (1998)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0054
abstract: A theorem of L\"{u}ders states that an ideal measurement of a sharp discrete observable does not alter the statistics of another sharp observable if, and only if, the two observables commute. It will be shown that this statement extends to certain pairs of unsharp observables. Implications for local relativistic quantum theory will be discussed.

id: 1304.0058
title: Inversion of moments to retrieve joint probabilities in quantum sequential measurements
authors: H. S. Karthik, Hemant Katiyar, Abhishek Shukla, T. S. Mahesh, A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 87, 052118 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0058
abstract: A sequence of moments encode the corresponding probability distribution. Probing if quantum joint probability distribution can be retrieved from the associated set of moments -- realized in the sequential measurement of a dichotomic observable at different time intervals -- reveals a negative answer i.e., the joint probabilities of sequential measurements do not agree with the ones obtained by inverting the moments. This is indeed a reflection of the non-existence of a bonafide grand joint probability distribution, consistent with all the physical marginal probability distributions. Here we explicitly demonstrate that given the set of moments, it is not possible to retrieve the three-time quantum joint probability distribution resulting from quantum sequential measurement of a single qubit dichotomic observable at three different times. Experimental results using a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) system are reported here to corroborate these theoretical observations viz., the incompatibility of the three-time joint probabilties with those extracted from the moment sequence.

id: 1304.0060
title: Reachability Probabilities of Quantum Markov Chains
authors: Shenggang Ying, Yuan Feng, Nengkun Yu, Mingsheng Ying
comments: Accepted by Concur 2013. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0060
abstract: This paper studies three kinds of long-term behaviours, namely reachability, repeated reachability and persistence, of quantum Markov chains (qMCs). As a stepping-stone, we introduce the notion of bottom strongly connected component (BSCC) of a qMC and develop an algorithm for finding BSCC decompositions of the state space of a qMC. As the major contribution, several (classical) algorithms for computing the reachability, repeated reachability and persistence probabilities of a qMC are presented, and their complexities are analysed.

id: 1304.0115
title: Excitation of an Atom by Twisted Photons
authors: Andrei Afanasev, Carl E. Carlson, Asmita Mukherjee
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys.: Conf. Ser. Vol. 25 (2014) 1460048
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0115
abstract: Twisted photon states, or photon states with large ($> \hbar$) angular momentum projection in the direction of motion, can photoexcite atomic final states of differing quantum numbers. If the photon symmetry axis coincides with the center of an atom, there are known selection rules that require exact matching between the quantum numbers of the photon and the photoexcited states. The more general case of arbitrarily positioned beams relaxes the selection rules but produces a distribution of quantum numbers of the final atomic states that is novel and distinct from final states produced by plane-wave photons. Numerical calculations are presented using a hydrogen atom as an example.

id: 1304.0128
title: Factoring 51 and 85 with 8 qubits
authors: Michael R. Geller, Zhongyuan Zhou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0128
abstract: We construct simplified quantum circuits for Shor's order-finding algorithm for composites N given by products of the Fermat primes 3, 5, 17, 257, and 65537. Such composites, including the previously studied case of 15, as well as 51, 85, 771, 1285, 4369,... have the simplifying property that the order of a modulo N for every base a coprime to N is a power of 2, significantly reducing the usual phase estimation precision requirement. Prime factorization of 51 and 85 can be demonstrated with only 8 qubits and a modular exponentiation circuit consisting of no more than four CNOT gates.

id: 1304.0155
title: A mathematical model for measurements
authors: Akitaka Kishimoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0155
abstract: We will give a new model for measurements of a quantum system, expressed as the compact operators on a Hilbert space, such that the measuring apparatuses are described by a unital separable non-type I nuclear simple C$^*$-algebra equipped with certain unital endomorphisms and pure states. An interaction between the quantum system and the apparatus is specified by a unitary associated with the combined system as before. Magnifying to the classical level some aspects of the quantum system so captured in the apparatus is explicitly done by applying the endomorphism; then the resulting state is the superposition of {\em phases} with weights. Nature will then choose each phase according to the probability prescribed by the weights just as does one when multiple phases appear as in phase transition. Thus in our model state-reduction (or collapse of the wave function) is a primary event; whether this corresponds to the measurement of an observable or which one if it does is another matter.

id: 1304.0186
title: Entanglement distillation for continuous-variables under a thermal environment: Effectiveness of a non-Gaussian operation
authors: Jaehak Lee, Hyunchul Nha
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032307 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0186
abstract: We study the task of distilling entanglement by a coherent superposition operation $t\hat{a}+r\hat{a}^\dagger$ applied to a continuous-variable state under a thermal noise. In particular, we compare the performances of two different strategies, i.e., the non-Gaussian operation $t\hat{a}+r\hat{a}^\dagger$ is applied before or after the noisy Gaussian channel. This is closely related to a fundamental problem of whether Gaussian or non-Gaussian entanglement can be more robust under a noisy channel and also provides a useful insight into the practical implementation of entanglement distribution for a long-distance quantum communication. We specifically look into two entanglement characteristics, the logarithmic negativity as a measure of entanglement and the teleportation fidelity as a usefulness of entanglement, for each distilled state. We find that the non-Gaussian operation after (before) the thermal noise becomes more effective in the low (high) temperature regime.

id: 1304.0253
title: Theoretical formulation of finite-dimensional discrete phase spaces: II. On the uncertainty principle for Schwinger unitary operators
authors: Marcelo A. Marchiolli, Paulo E. M. F. Mendonca
comments: 31 pages, 3 figures, comments welcome
journal: Annals of Physics 336 (2013) 76 - 97
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0253
abstract: We introduce a self-consistent theoretical framework associated with the Schwinger unitary operators whose basic mathematical rules embrace a new uncertainty principle that generalizes and strengthens the Massar-Spindel inequality. Among other remarkable virtues, this quantum-algebraic approach exhibits a sound connection with the Wiener-Kinchin theorem for signal processing, which permits us to determine an effective tighter bound that not only imposes a new subtle set of restrictions upon the selective process of signals and wavelets bases, but also represents an important complement for property testing of unitary operators. Moreover, we establish a hierarchy of tighter bounds, which interpolates between the tightest bound and the Massar-Spindel inequality, as well as its respective link with the discrete Weyl function and tomographic reconstructions of finite quantum states. We also show how the Harper Hamiltonian and discrete Fourier operators can be combined to construct finite ground states which yield the tightest bound of a given finite-dimensional state vector space. Such results touch on some fundamental questions inherent to quantum mechanics and their implications in quantum information theory.

id: 1304.0261
title: Adiabatic quantum simulation with a segmented ion trap: Application to long-distance entanglement in quantum spin systems
authors: S. Zippilli, M. Johanning, S. M. Giampaolo, Ch. Wunderlich, F. Illuminati
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042308 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0261
abstract: We investigate theoretically systems of ions in segmented linear Paul traps for the quantum simulation of quantum spin models with tunable interactions. The scheme is entirely general and can be applied to the realization of arbitrary spin-spin interactions. As a specific application we discuss in detail the quantum simulation of models that exhibit long-distance entanglement in the ground state. We show how tailoring of the axial trapping potential allows for generating spin-spin coupling patterns that are suitable to create long-distance entanglement. We discuss how suitable sequences of microwave pulses can implement Trotter expansions and realize various kinds of effective spin-spin interactions. The corresponding Hamiltonians can be varied on adjustable time scales, thereby allowing the controlled adiabatic preparation of their ground states.

id: 1304.0264
title: An alternative power spectrum of the resonance fluorescence of atomic systems
authors: Adam Stokes, Almut Beige
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, revised version, details added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0264
abstract: We adopt an open quantum systems perspective to calculate the power spectrum associated with the electric field generated by an atomic dipole moment undergoing resonant laser-driving. This spectrum has a similar shape to the usual Mollow spectrum, but also has some distinct features. For sufficiently strong laser driving, both spectra have a symmetric triplet structure with a large central peak and two sidebands. However, the relative height of the sidebands to the central peak differs in each case. The two spectra also behave quite differently when the laser Rabi frequency is varied. Both spectra may be of interest in high-precision experiments into the quantum physics of atomic systems, especially artificial atoms.

id: 1304.0271
title: Realization of Geometric Landau-Zener-St¨¹ckelberg Interferometry
authors: Junhua Zhang, Jingning Zhang, Xiang Zhang, Kihwan Kim
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0271
abstract: We report the first experimental realization of the geometric Landau-Zener-St\"{u}ckelberg (LZS) interferometry proposed by [Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 207002 (2011)] in a single trapped ion system. Different from a conventional LZS interferometer, the interference fringes of our geometric interferometer originate solely from geometric phase. We also observe the robustness of the interference contrast against noise or fluctuation in the experimental parameters. Our scheme can be applied to other complex systems subject to relatively large errors in system control.

id: 1304.0273
title: Second order tunneling of two interacting bosons in a driven triple well
authors: Zheng Zhou, Wenhua Hai, Qiongtao Xie, Jintao Tan
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0273
abstract: We investigate quantum tunneling of two repulsive bosons in a triple-well potential subject to a high-frequency driving field. By means of the multiple-time-scale asymptotic analysis, we evidence a far-resonant strongly-interacting regime in which the selected coherent destruction of tunneling can occur between the paired states and unpaired states, and the dominant tunneling of the paired states is a second order process. Two Floquet quasienergy bands of the both kinds of states are given analytically, where a fine structure up to the second order corrections is displayed. The analytical results are confirmed numerically based on the exact model, and may be particularly relevant to controlling correlated tunneling in experiments.

id: 1304.0283
title: Fidelity of remote state preparation can be enhanced by local operation
authors: Congyi Hua, Sheng-Wen Li, Yi-Xin Chen
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0283
abstract: Remote state preparation (RSP) is a quantum information protocol which allows preparing a quantum state at a distant location with the help of a preshared nonclassical resource state and a classical channel. The efficiency of successfully doing this task can be represented by the RSP-fidelity of the resource state. In this paper, we study the influence on the RSP-fidelity by applying certain local operations on the resource state. We prove that RSP-fidelity does not increase for any unital local operation. However, for nonunital local operation, such as local amplitude damping channel, we find that some resource states can be enhanced to increase the RSP-fidelity. We give the optimal parameter of symmetric local amplitude damping channel for enhancing Bell-diagonal resource states. In addition, we show RSP-fidelity can suddenly change or even vanish at instant under local decoherence.

id: 1304.0297
title: Sensitivity to thermal noise of atomic Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entanglement
authors: R. J. Lewis-Swan, K. V. Kheruntsyan
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Modifications to Figs. 2, 3 and 4 and text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063635 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0297
abstract: We examine the prospect of demonstrating Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entanglement for massive particles using spin-changing collisions in a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate. Such a demonstration has recently been attempted by Gross et al. [Nature 480, 219 (2011)] using a condensate of Rb-87 atoms trapped in an optical lattice potential. For the condensate initially prepared in the (F,m_{F})=(2,0) hyperfine state, with no population in the m_{F}=+-1 states, we predict a significant suppression of the product of inferred quadrature variances below the Heisenberg uncertainty limit, implying strong EPR entanglement. However, such EPR entanglement is lost when the collisions are initiated in the presence of a small (currently undetectable) thermal population n_{th} in the m_{F}=+-1 states. For condensates containing 150 to 200 atoms, we predict an upper bound of n_{th}~1 that can be tolerated in this experiment before EPR entanglement is lost.

id: 1304.0301
title: Limitations on the quantum non-Gaussian characteristic of Schr?dinger kitten state generation
authors: Hongbin Song, Katanya B. Kuntz, Elanor H. Huntington
comments: Copyright belongs to IOP Publishing ltd. This is an author-created, un-copyedited version of an article accepted for publication in New Journal of Phyiscis. IOP Publishing Ltd is not responsible for any errors or omissions in this version of the manuscript or any version derived from it. The Version of Record is available online at doi:10.1088/1367-2630/15/2/023042
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 023042 Online at http://stacks.iop.org/1367-2630/15/023042
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0301
abstract: A quantitative analysis is conducted on the impacts of experimental imperfections in the input state, the detector properties, and their interactions on photon-subtracted squeezed vacuum states in terms of a quantum non-Gaussian character witness and Wigner function. Limitations of the non-classicality and quantum non-Gaussian characteristic of Schr\"{o}dinger kitten states are identified and addressed. The detrimental effects of a photon-number detector on the generation of odd Schr\"{o}dinger kitten state at near-infrared wavelengths ($\sim$ 860 nm) and telecommunication wavelengths ($\sim$ 1550 nm) are presented and analysed. This analysis demonstrates that the high dark count probability of telecommunication-wavelength photon-number detectors significantly undermines the negativity of the Wigner function in Schr\"{o}dinger kitten state generation experiments. For a one-photon-subtracted squeezed vacuum state at $\sim$ 1550 nm, an APD-based photon-number-resolving detector provides no significant advantage over a non-photon-number-resolving detector when imperfections, such as dark count probability and inefficiency, are taken into account.

id: 1304.0304
title: Non-classical two-photon interference between independent telecom light pulses converted by difference-frequency generation
authors: Rikizo Ikuta, Toshiki Kobayashi, Hiroshi Kato, Shigehito Miki, Taro Yamashita, Hirotaka Terai, Mikio Fujiwara, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Masahide Sasaki, Zhen Wang, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042317 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0304
abstract: We experimentally demonstrated the Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) interference between two photons after visible-to-telecommunication wavelength conversion. In the experiment, we prepared a heralded single photon by using spontaneous parametric down-conversion and the other photon from a weak laser source at 780 nm. We converted the wavelength of both photons to the telecommunication wavelength of 1522 nm by using difference-frequency generation in a periodically-poled lithium niobate, and then observed the HOM interference between the photons. The observed visibility is $0.76\pm 0.12$ which clearly shows the non-classical interference of the two photons. The high-visibility interference is an important step for fiber-based quantum communications of photons generated from visible photon emitters.

id: 1304.0307
title: On two classes of perturbations: Role of signs of second-order Rayleigh-Schr?dinger energy corrections
authors: Kamal Bhattacharyya
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0307
abstract: We distinguish two extreme classes of perturbation problems depending on the signs of second-order energy corrections and argue why it is generally much more probable to obtain a negative value of the same for any state in the standard Rayleigh-Schr\"odinger perturbation theory. The classes are seen to differ in reproducing results of finite-dimensional matrix perturbations. A few related issues are also discussed, some of which are based on available analytical results.

id: 1304.0319
title: Quantum Teleportation of Dynamics and Effective Interactions Between Remote Systems
authors: Christine A. Muschik, Klemens Hammerer, Eugene S. Polzik, Ignacio J. Cirac
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 020501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0319
abstract: Most protocols for Quantum Information Processing consist of a series of quantum gates, which are applied sequentially. In contrast, interactions, for example between matter and fields, as well as measurements such as homodyne detection of light, are typically continuous in time. We show how the ability to perform quantum operations continuously and deterministically can be leveraged for inducing non-local dynamics between two separate parties. We introduce a scheme for the engineering of an interaction between two remote systems and present a protocol which induces a dynamics in one of the parties, which is controlled by the other one. Both schemes apply to continuous variable systems, run continuously in time and are based on real-time feedback.

id: 1304.0358
title: Probing non-Abelian anyonic statistics with cold atoms in an optical lattice
authors: Sheng Liu, Zheng-Yuan Xue
comments: v1, firstly submitted on Dec, 2012; v2: accepted version of JOSAB; v3: published version
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 30, 1720 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0358
abstract: We propose a scheme to probe the non-Abelian statistics of the collective anyonic excitation in Kitaev's honeycomb model with cold atoms in an optical lattice. The generation of the anyonic excitation can be realized by simple rotating operation acting on an effective spin-1/2 system, which is encoded in the atomic hyperfine energy levels. The non-Abelian nature of the anyonic excitation is manifested by the braiding of four vortices, which leads to different operations on the subspace of degenerate ground states, and thus results in different final states. Here, by introducing an ancilla atom, the effective control over the lattice atoms can be realized and the final different states can also be imprinted on the ancilla and further distinguished by measurement.

id: 1304.0364
title: Producing GHZ state of nitrogen-vacancy centers in cavity QED
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue, Sheng Liu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, v1: accepted by JMO on March 2013; v2 published version
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 60, 474 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0364
abstract: We propose a scheme to generate GHZ state of nitrogen-vacancy centers coupled to a whispering-gallery mode cavity. The implemented evolution is independent on the cavity field state with the assistant of a strong classical field, and thus not sensitive to the thermal state of the cavity. Meanwhile, it is fast compare to the convectional dispersive interaction induced operation in a cavity-assisted system. The scheme is readily scalable to multiqubit scenario.

id: 1304.0385
title: Normal and anti-normal ordered expressions for annihilation and creation operators
authors: J.M. Vargas-Mart¨ªnez, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 
journal: Rev. Mex. F\'is. E 52, 13-16 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0385
abstract: We give the normal and anti-normal order expressions of the number operator to the power $k$ by using the commutation relation between the annihilation and creation operators. We use those expressions to give general formulae for functions of the number operator in normal and anti-normal order.

id: 1304.0390
title: Generalized qubits of the vibrational motion of a trapped ion
authors: L.M. Ar¨¦valo Aguilar, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 
journal: Phys Rev. A 65, 053413 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0390
abstract: We present a method to generate qubits of the vibrational motion of an ion. The method is developed in the non-rotating wave approximation regime, therefore we consider regimes where the dynamics has not been studied. Because the solutions are valid for a more extended range of parameters we call them generalized qubits.

id: 1304.0427
title: Correlated Photon Pair Production by Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion in Quasi-Phase-Matched AlGaAs superlattice Waveguides using a Continuous Wave Pump
authors: Peyman Sarrafi, Eric Zhu, Ksenia Dolgaleva, Barry M. Holmes, David C. Hutchings, Stewart Aitchison, Li Qian
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0427
abstract: We report on the demonstration of correlated photon pair generation in quasi-phase-matched superlattice AlGaAs waveguides with a high coincidence-to-accidental ratio (CAR); with a continuous (CW) pump, the observed CAR (>100) is more than two order of magnitudes improvement over previously reported spontaneous down conversion (SPDC) schemes in AlGaAs waveguides with a pulsed pump.

id: 1304.0432
title: Constant-Factor Optimization of Quantum Adders on 2D Quantum Architectures
authors: Mehdi Saeedi, Alireza Shafaei, Massoud Pedram
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures, 3 tables, Conference on Reversible Computation (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0432
abstract: Quantum arithmetic circuits have practical applications in various quantum algorithms. In this paper, we address quantum addition on 2-dimensional nearest-neighbor architectures based on the work presented by Choi and Van Meter (JETC 2012). To this end, we propose new circuit structures for some basic blocks in the adder, and reduce communication overhead by adding concurrency to consecutive blocks and also by parallel execution of expensive Toffoli gates. The proposed optimizations reduce total depth from $140\sqrt n+k_1$ to $92\sqrt n+k_2$ for constants $k_1,k_2$ and affect the computation fidelity considerably.

id: 1304.0439
title: A discrete model of energy-conserved wavefunction collapse
authors: Shan Gao
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: Proceedings of the Royal Society A 469, 20120526 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0439
abstract: Energy nonconservation is a serious problem of dynamical collapse theories. In this paper, we propose a discrete model of energy-conserved wavefunction collapse. It is shown that the model is consistent with existing experiments and our macroscopic experience.

id: 1304.0492
title: The singular harmonic oscillator revisited
authors: Douglas R. M. Pimentel, Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, in Portuguese
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0492
abstract: The one-dimensional Schr\"{o}dinger equation with the singular harmonic oscillator is investigated. The Hermiticity of the operators related to observable physical quantities is used as a criterion to show that the attractive or repulsive singular oscillator exhibits an infinite number of acceptable solutions provided the parameter responsible for the singularity is greater than a certain critical value, in disagreement with the literature. The problem for the whole line exhibits a two-fold degeneracy in the case of the singular oscillator, and the intrusion of additional solutions in the case of a nonsingular oscillator. Additionally, it is shown that the solution of the singular oscillator can not be obtained from the nonsingular oscillator via perturbation theory.

id: 1304.0502
title: Algebraic techniques in designing quantum synchronizable codes
authors: Yuichiro Fujiwara, Vladimir D. Tonchev, Tony W. H. Wong
comments: 9 pages, no figures. The framework presented in this article supersedes the one given in arXiv:1206.0260 by the first author
journal: Physical Review A 88, 012318 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0502
abstract: Quantum synchronizable codes are quantum error-correcting codes that can correct the effects of quantum noise as well as block synchronization errors. We improve the previously known general framework for designing quantum synchronizable codes through more extensive use of the theory of finite fields. This makes it possible to widen the range of tolerable magnitude of block synchronization errors while giving mathematical insight into the algebraic mechanism of synchronization recovery. Also given are families of quantum synchronizable codes based on punctured Reed-Muller codes and their ambient spaces.

id: 1304.0504
title: Distributing Entanglement with Separable States
authors: Christian Peuntinger, Vanessa Chille, Ladislav Mi?ta, Jr., Natalia Korolkova, Michael F?rtsch, Jan Korger, Christoph Marquardt, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 230506 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0504
abstract: Like a silver thread, quantum entanglement [1] runs through the foundations and breakthrough applications of quantum information theory. It cannot arise from local operations and classical communication (LOCC) and therefore represents a more intimate relationship among physical systems than we may encounter in the classical world. The `nonlocal' character of entanglement manifests itself through a number of counterintuitive phenomena encompassing Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox [2,3], steering [4], Bell nonlocality [5] or negativity of entropy [6,7]. Furthermore, it extends our abilities to process information. Here, entanglement is used as a resource which needs to be shared between several parties, eventually placed at remote locations. However entanglement is not the only manifestation of quantum correlations. Notably, also separable quantum states can be used as a shared resource for quantum communication. The experiment presented in this paper highlights the quantumness of correlations in separable mixed states and the role of classical information in quantum communication by demonstrating entanglement distribution using merely a separable ancilla mode.

id: 1304.0508
title: Computational Complexity and the Interpretation of a Quantum State Vector
authors: Arkady Bolotin
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0508
abstract: The macro-objectivation problem derives from the fact that the Schrodinger equation is linear and thus requires that a macroscopic system interacting with an entangled state must be entangled as well. However, such a requirement entails that the Schrodinger equation must also be solvable in the macroscopic world in the same way as it is solvable in the microscopic world, which itself is an assumption. In this work, the alternative assumption that the Schrodinger equation is in general an intractable problem is considered.

id: 1304.0509
title: Photon Aided and Inhibited Tunneling of Photons
authors: Xuele Liu, G.S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063841 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0509
abstract: In the light of the interest in the transport of single photons in arrays of waveguides, fiber couplers, photonic crystals, etc., we consider the quantum mechanical process of the tunneling of photons through evanescently or otherwise coupled structures. We specifically examine the issue of tunneling between two structures when one structure already contains few photons. We demonstrate the possibility of both photon aided and inhibited tunneling of photons. The Bosonic nature of photons enhances the tunneling probability. We also show how the multiphoton tunneling probability can be either enhanced or inhibited due to the presence of photons. We find similar results for the higher order tunneling. Finally, we show that the presence of a squeezed field changes the nature of tunneling considerably.

id: 1304.0510
title: Simulation of the Majorana equation in circuit QED
authors: Sheng Liu, Chuan-Jia Shan, Zhi-Ming Zhang, Zheng-Yuan Xue
comments: first submitted on March 2012; v2 published version
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 13(8), 1813-1823 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0510
abstract: We propose a scheme to simulate the 1D Majorana equation with two Cooper pair boxes coupled to a 1D superconducting transmission line resonator, where strong coupling limit can be achieved. With proper chosen of systematic parameters, we are able to engineer different kinds of interaction, which is indispensable in simulating the Majorana equation in an enlarged real Hilbert space. Measurement of the conserved observable of pseudo-helicity via transmission spectrum of the cavity field can verify the simulated Majorana wave function. The measurement results are experimentally resolvable based on our estimation with conservative parameters.

id: 1304.0532
title: Strong constraints on models that explain the violation of Bell inequalities with hidden superluminal influences
authors: Valerio Scarani, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Antoine Suarez, Nicolas Gisin
comments: Proceedings of the conference "Horizons of quantum physics" (Taipei, 14-18 October 2012)
journal: Found. Phys. 44, 523-531 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0532
abstract: We discuss models that attempt to provide an explanation for the violation of Bell inequalities at a distance in terms of hidden influences. These models reproduce the quantum correlations in most situations, but are restricted to produce local correlations in some configurations. The argument presented in [Bancal et al. Nature Physics 8, 867 (2012)] applies to all of these models, which can thus be proved to allow for faster-than-light communication. In other words, the signalling character of these models cannot remain hidden.

id: 1304.0545
title: Quantum particles passing through a matter-wave aperture
authors: Jian-Ping Peng
comments: 2 figures
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. B, 27, 1350188 (2013) [8 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0545
abstract: We investigate theoretically a dilute stream of free quantum particles passing through a macroscopic circular aperture of matter-waves and then moving in a space at a finite temperature, taking into account the dissipative coupling with the environment. The portion of particles captured by the detection screen is studied by varying the distance between the aperture and the screen. Depending on the wavelength, the temperature, and the dimension of the aperture, an unusual local valley-peak structure is found in increasing the distance, in contrast to traditional thinking that it decreases monotonically. The underlying mechanism is the nonlocality in the process of decoherence for an individual particle.

id: 1304.0555
title: Distributed quantum election scheme
authors: Rui-Rui Zhou, Li Yang
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0555
abstract: In an electronic voting protocol, a distributed scheme can be used for forbidding the malicious acts of the voting administrator and the counter during the election, but it cannot prevent them from collaborating to trace the ballots and destroy their privacy after the election. We present a distributed anonymous quantum key distribution scheme and further construct a distributed quantum election scheme with a voting administrator made up of more than one part. This quantum election scheme can resist the malicious acts of the voting administrator and the counter after the election and can work in a system with lossy and noisy quantum channels.

id: 1304.0590
title: Entanglement of one-magnon Schur-Weyl states
authors: Pawel Jakubczyk, Yevgen Kravets, Dorota Jakubczyk
comments: 6 pages, published in The European Physical Journal D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0590
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of symmetry states of the Schur-Weyl duality. Our approach based on reduced two-qubit density matrices, and concurrence as the measure of entanglement. We show that all kinds of entangled graphs, which describe the entanglement structure in Schur-Weyl states are completely coded in the corresponding Young tableau.

id: 1304.0642
title: Silicon-on-insulator integrated source of polarization-entangled photons
authors: Laurent Olislager, Jassem Safioui, St¨¦phane Clemmen, Kien Phan Huy, Wim Bogaerts, Roel Baets, Philippe Emplit, Serge Massar
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Published in Optics Letters, Vol. 38, No. 11, 1960 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0642
abstract: We report the experimental generation of polarization-entangled photons at telecommunication wavelengths using spontaneous four-wave mixing in silicon-on-insulator wire waveguides. The key component is a 2D coupler that transforms path entanglement into polarization entanglement at the output of the device. Using quantum state tomography we find that the produced state has fidelity 88% with a pure non-maximally entangled state. The produced state violates the CHSH Bell inequality by S=2.37\pm0.19.

id: 1304.0676
title: New Inequalities in Equilibrium Statistical Mechanics
authors: J. G. Brankov, N. S. Tonchev
comments: 15 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1112.4184
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0676
abstract: Recently, new thermodynamic inequalities have been obtained, which set bounds on the quadratic fluctuations of intensive observables of statistical mechanical systems in terms of the Bogoliubov - Duhamel inner product and some thermal average values. It was shown that several well-known inequalities in equilibrium statistical mechanics emerge as special cases of these results. On the basis of the spectral representation, lower and upper bounds on the one-sided fidelity susceptibility were derived in analogous terms. Here, these results are reviewed and presented in a unified manner. In addition, the spectral representation of the symmetric two-sided fidelity susceptibility is derived, and it is shown to coincide with the one-sided case. Therefore, both definitions imply the same lower and upper bounds on the fidelity susceptibility.

id: 1304.0688
title: High precision nano scale temperature sensing using single defects in diamond
authors: Philipp Neumann, Ingmar Jakobi, Florian Dolde, Christian Burk, Rolf Reuter, Gerald Waldherr, Jan Honert, Thomas Wolf, Andreas Brunner, Jeong Hyun Shim, Dieter Suter, H. Sumiya, Junichi Isoya, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0688
abstract: Measuring local temperature with a spatial resolution on the order of a few nanometers has a wide range of applications from semiconductor industry over material to life sciences. When combined with precision temperature measurement it promises to give excess to small temperature changes caused e.g. by chemical reactions or biochemical processes. However, nanoscale temperature measurements and precision have excluded each other so far owing to the physical processes used for temperature measurement of limited stability of nanoscale probes. Here we experimentally demonstrate a novel nanoscale temperature sensing technique based on single atomic defects in diamonds. Sensor sizes range from millimeter down to a few tens of nanometers. Utilizing the sensitivity of the optically accessible electron spin level structure to temperature changes we achieve a temperature noise floor of 5 mK Hz$^{-1/2}$ for single defects in bulk sensors. Using doped nanodiamonds as sensors yields temperature measurement with 130 mK Hz$^{-1/2}$ noise floor and accuracies down to 1 mK at length scales of a few ten nanometers. The high sensitivity to temperature changes together with excellent spatial resolution combined with outstanding sensor stability allows for nanoscale precision temperature determination enough to measure chemical processes of few or single molecules by their reaction heat even in heterogeneous environments like cells.

id: 1304.0741
title: Faster Phase Estimation
authors: Krysta M. Svore, Matthew B. Hastings, Michael Freedman
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. Vol. 14, No. 3&4, pp. 306-328 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0741
abstract: We develop several algorithms for performing quantum phase estimation based on basic measurements and classical post-processing. We present a pedagogical review of quantum phase estimation and simulate the algorithm to numerically determine its scaling in circuit depth and width. We show that the use of purely random measurements requires a number of measurements that is optimal up to constant factors, albeit at the cost of exponential classical post-processing; the method can also be used to improve classical signal processing. We then develop a quantum algorithm for phase estimation that yields an asymptotic improvement in runtime, coming within a factor of log* of the minimum number of measurements required while still requiring only minimal classical post-processing. The corresponding quantum circuit requires asymptotically lower depth and width (number of qubits) than quantum phase estimation.

id: 1304.0746
title: Steady state entanglement of two superconducting qubits engineered by dissipation
authors: Florentin Reiter, L. Tornberg, G?ran Johansson, Anders S. S?rensen
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures; close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032317 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0746
abstract: We present a scheme for the dissipative preparation of an entangled steady state of two superconducting qubits in a circuit QED setup. Combining resonator photon loss, a dissipative process already present in the setup, with an effective two-photon microwave drive, we engineer an effective decay mechanism which prepares a maximally entangled state of the two qubits. This state is then maintained as the steady state of the driven, dissipative evolution. The performance of the dissipative state preparation protocol is studied analytically and verified numerically. In view of the experimental implementation of the presented scheme we investigate the effects of potential experimental imperfections and show that our scheme is robust to small deviations in the parameters. We find that high fidelities with the target state can be achieved both with state-of-the-art 3D, as well as with the more commonly used 2D transmons. The promising results of our study thus open a route for the demonstration of an entangled steady state in circuit QED.

id: 1304.0748
title: Mini-maximizing two qubit quantum computations
authors: Faisal Shah Khan, Simon J.D. Phoenix
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure. A brief discussion, explicitly stating the insights gained into two qubit quantum computations using min-max, has been added to version 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0748
abstract: Two qubit quantum computations are viewed as two player, strictly competitive games and a game-theoretic measure of optimality of these computations is developed. To this end, the geometry of Hilbert space of quantum computations is used to establish the equivalence of game-theoretic solution concepts of Nash equilibrium and mini-max outcomes in games of this type, and quantum mechanisms are designed for realizing these mini-max outcomes.

id: 1304.0776
title: A quantum logic gate between a solid-state quantum bit and a photon
authors: Hyochul Kim, Ranojoy Bose, Thomas C. Shen, Glenn S. Solomon, Edo Waks
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0776
abstract: Integrated quantum photonics provides a promising route towards scalable solid-state implementations of quantum networks, quantum computers, and ultra-low power opto-electronic devices. A key component for many of these applications is the photonic quantum logic gate, where the quantum state of a solid-state quantum bit (qubit) conditionally controls the state of a photonic qubit. These gates are crucial for development of robust quantum networks, non-destructive quantum measurements, and strong photon-photon interactions. Here we experimentally realize a quantum logic gate between an optical photon and a solid-state qubit. The qubit is composed of a quantum dot (QD) strongly coupled to a nano-cavity, which acts as a coherently controllable qubit system that conditionally flips the polarization of a photon on picosecond timescales, implementing a controlled-NOT (cNOT) gate. Our results represent an important step towards solid-state quantum networks and provide a versatile approach for probing QD-photon interactions on ultra-fast timescales.

id: 1304.0819
title: Twenty open problems in quantum control
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: 8 pages, 3 png figures. v2: expanded discussion of definitions added in appendix; v3: explanation of loopless definition greatly simplified (many references still to be added)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0819
abstract: The subject of controlling quantum systems is not new, but concepts that have been introduced in the last decade and a half, especially that of coherent feedback, suggest new questions that broaden and deepen the field. Here we provide a concise overview and definition of quantum feedback control, both coherent and measurement-based, and discuss its relationship to "standard" time-dependent control; there is a sense in which the latter subsumes the rest. There are many open questions within quantum control and its subfields, and we highlight and discuss some of them here. These questions are of theoretical as well as practical interest: the answers will help to determine the relative power of the different methods of control, and the limits to our ability to control quantum systems imposed by available resources.

id: 1304.0843
title: Slow light enhanced correlated photon pair generation in photonic-crystal coupled-resonator optical waveguides
authors: Nobuyuki Matsuda, Hiroki Takesue, Kaoru Shimizu, Yasuhiro Tokura, Eiichi Kuramochi, Masaya Notomi
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt. Express 21, 8596-8604 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0843
abstract: We demonstrate the generation of quantum-correlated photon pairs from a Si photonic-crystal coupled-resonator optical waveguide. A slow-light supermode realized by the collective resonance of high-Q and small-mode-volume photonic-crystal cavities successfully enhanced the efficiency of the spontaneous four-wave mixing process. The generation rate of photon pairs was improved by two orders of magnitude compared with that of a photonic-crystal line defect waveguide without a slow-light effect.

id: 1304.0845
title: Adversary Lower Bound for the Orthogonal Array Problem
authors: Robert Spalek
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0845
abstract: We prove a quantum query lower bound \Omega(n^{(d+1)/(d+2)}) for the problem of deciding whether an input string of size n contains a k-tuple which belongs to a fixed orthogonal array on k factors of strength d<=k-1 and index 1, provided that the alphabet size is sufficiently large. Our lower bound is tight when d=k-1. The orthogonal array problem includes the following problems as special cases: k-sum problem with d=k-1, k-distinctness problem with d=1, k-pattern problem with d=0, (d-1)-degree problem with 1<=d<=k-1, unordered search with d=0 and k=1, and graph collision with d=0 and k=2.

id: 1304.0948
title: Scaling laws of the cavity enhancement for nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond
authors: Hanno Kaupp, Christian Deutsch, Huan-Cheng Chang, Jakob Reichel, Theodor W. H?nsch, David Hunger
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 88, 053812 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0948
abstract: We employ a fiber-based optical microcavity with high finesse to study the enhancement of phonon sideband fluorescence of nitrogen-vacancy centers in nanodiamonds. Harnessing the full tunability and open access of the resonator, we explicitly demonstrate the scaling laws of the Purcell enhancement by varying both the mode volume and the quality factor over a large range. While changes in the emission lifetime remain small in the regime of a broadband emitter, we observe an increase of the emission spectral density by up to a factor of 300. This gives a direct measure of the Purcell factor that could be achieved with this resonator and an emitter whose linewidth is narrower than the cavity linewidth. Our results show a method for the realization of wavelength-tunable narrow-band single-photon sources and demonstrate a system that has the potential to reach the strong-coupling regime.

id: 1304.0977
title: Damping the zero-point energy of a harmonic oscillator
authors: T.G Philbin, S.A.R. Horsley
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0977
abstract: The physics of quantum electromagnetism in an absorbing medium is that of a field of damped harmonic oscillators. Yet until recently the damped harmonic oscillator was not treated with the same kind of formalism used to describe quantum electrodynamics in a arbitrary medium. Here we use the techniques of macroscopic QED, based on the Huttner--Barnett reservoir, to describe the quantum mechanics of a damped oscillator. We calculate the thermal and zero-point energy of the oscillator for a range of damping values from zero to infinity. While both the thermal and zero-point energies decrease with damping, the energy stored in the oscillator at fixed temperature increases with damping, an effect that may be experimentally observable. As the results follow from canonical quantization, the uncertainty principle is valid for all damping levels.

id: 1304.0983
title: Strong connections between quantum encodings, non-locality and quantum cryptography
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Iordanis Kerenidis, Jamie Sikora
comments: Version 3. Previous title: "Oblivious transfer, the CHSH game, and quantum encodings"
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022334 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0983
abstract: Encoding information in quantum systems can offer surprising advantages but at the same time there are limitations that arise from the fact that measuring an observable may disturb the state of the quantum system. In our work, we provide an in-depth analysis of a simple question: What happens when we perform two measurements sequentially on the same quantum system? This question touches upon some fundamental properties of quantum mechanics, namely the uncertainty principle and the complementarity of quantum measurements. Our results have interesting consequences, for example they can provide a simple proof of the optimal quantum strategy in the famous Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt game. Moreover, we show that the way information is encoded in quantum systems can provide a different perspective in understanding other fundamental aspects of quantum information, like non-locality and quantum cryptography. We prove some strong equivalences between these notions and provide a number of applications in all areas.

id: 1304.0990
title: Wave function of classical particle in linear potential
authors: A. S. Avanesov, V. I. Manko
comments: 9 pages, no appear in J. Rus. Laser Res
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0990
abstract: The problem of classical particle in linear potential is studied by using the formalism of Hilbert space and tomographic probability distribution. The Liouville equation for this problem is solved by finding the density matrix satisfying von Newmann-like equation in the form of product of wave functions. The relation to quantum mechanics is discussed.

id: 1304.1012
title: Anderson localization of entangled photons in an integrated quantum walk
authors: Andrea Crespi, Roberto Osellame, Roberta Ramponi, Vittorio Giovannetti, Rosario Fazio, Linda Sansoni, Francesco {De Nicola}, Fabio Sciarrino Paolo Mataloni
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, revised version published on Nature Photonics 7, 322-328 (2013)
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 322-328 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1012
abstract: Waves fail to propagate in random media. First predicted for quantum particles in the presence of a disordered potential, Anderson localization has been observed also in classical acoustics, electromagnetism and optics. Here, for the first time, we report the observation of Anderson localization of pairs of entangled photons in a two-particle discrete quantum walk a?ected by position dependent disorder. A quantum walk on a disordered lattice is realized by an integrated array of interferometers fabricated in glass by femtosecond laser writing. A novel technique is used to introduce a controlled phase shift into each unit mesh of the network. Polarization entanglement is exploited to simulate the di?erent symmetries of the two-walker system. We are thus able to experimentally investigate the genuine effect of (bosonic and fermionic) statistics in the absence of interaction between the particles. We will show how different types of randomness and the symmetry of the wave-function affect the localization of the entangled walkers.

id: 1304.1034
title: Study on a Phase Space Representation of Quantum Theory
authors: Tokiniaina Ranaivoson, Raoelina Andriambololona, Rakotoson Hanitriarivo, Roland Raboanary
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1034
abstract: A study on a method to establish phase space representation of quantum theories is presented. The approach utilizes properties of Gaussian distribution, properties of Hermite polynomials, Fourier analysis and linear operators theory. Phase space representation of quantum state and wave functions in phase space are introduced using properties of a set of functions that we call harmonic Gaussian functions. Then, new operators that we designate dispersion operators are defined as the operators which admit as eigenstates the states associated to the phase space representation. Generalization of the approach for multidimensional case is shown. Examples of application are given too.

id: 1304.1060
title: Catalytic Coherence
authors: Johan Aberg
comments: Added material, journal reference
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 150402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1060
abstract: Due to conservation of energy we cannot directly turn a quantum system with a definite energy into a superposition of different energies. However, if we have access to an additional resource in terms of a system with a high degree of coherence, as for standard models of laser light, we can overcome this limitation. The question is to what extent coherence gets degraded when utilized. Here it is shown that coherence can be turned into a catalyst, meaning that we can use it repeatedly without ever diminishing its power to enable coherent operations. This finding stands in contrast to the degradation of other quantum resources, and has direct consequences for quantum thermodynamics, as it shows that latent energy that may be locked into superpositions of energy eigenstates can be released catalytically.

id: 1304.1068
title: Nanometer scale quantum thermometry in a living cell
authors: G. Kucsko, P. C. Maurer, N. Y. Yao, M. Kubo, H. J. Noh, P. K. Lo, H. Park, M. D. Lukin
comments: 
journal: Nature 500, 54-58 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1068
abstract: Sensitive probing of temperature variations on nanometer scales represents an outstanding challenge in many areas of modern science and technology. In particular, a thermometer capable of sub-degree temperature resolution as well as integration within a living system could provide a powerful new tool for many areas of biological research, including temperature-induced control of gene expression and cell-selective treatment of disease. Here, we demonstrate a new approach to nanoscale thermometry that utilizes coherent manipulation of the electronic spin associated with nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers in diamond. We show the ability to detect temperature variations down to 1.8 mK (sensitivity of 9 mK/sqrt(Hz)) in an ultra-pure bulk diamond sample. Using NV centers in diamond nanocrystals (nanodiamonds), we directly measure the local thermal environment at length scales down to 200 nm. Finally, by introducing both nanodiamonds and gold nanoparticles into a single human embryonic fibroblast, we demonstrate temperature-gradient control and mapping at the sub-cellular level, enabling unique potential applications in life sciences.

id: 1304.1163
title: Comparative investigation of the freezing phenomena for quantum correlations under nondissipative decoherence
authors: Benjamin Aaronson, Rosario Lo Franco, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, 1 table; title changed to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012120 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1163
abstract: We show that the phenomenon of frozen discord, exhibited by specific classes of two-qubit states under local nondissipative decoherent evolutions, is a common feature of all known bona fide measures of general quantum correlations. All those measures, despite inducing typically inequivalent orderings on the set of nonclassically correlated states, return a constant value in the considered settings. Every communication protocol which relies on quantum correlations as resource will run with a performance completely unaffected by noise in the specified dynamical conditions. We provide a geometric interpretation of this

id: 1304.1214
title: Bell-state measurement and quantum teleportation using linear optics: two-photon pairs, entangled coherent states, and hybrid entanglement
authors: Seung-Woo Lee, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: Submitted to the Proceedings of the First International Conference on Entangled Coherent State and Its Application to Quantum Information Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1214
abstract: We review and compare Bell-state measurement and quantum teleportation schemes using linear optics with three different types of resources, i.e., two-photon pairs, entangled coherent states and hybrid entangled states. Remarkably, perfect teleportation with linear optics is possible in principle based on a hybrid approach that combines two-photon pairs and entangled coherent states. It turns out that hybrid approach allows to perform Bell-state measurement and local Pauli operations in a deterministic way, while it requires photon number resolving measurements.

id: 1304.1240
title: Transformation optics for cavity array metamaterials
authors: James Q. Quach, Chun-Hsu Su, Andrew D. Greentree
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 5, pp. 5575-5581 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1240
abstract: Cavity array metamaterials (CAMs), composed of optical microcavities in a lattice coupled via tight-binding interactions, represent a novel architecture for engineering metamaterials. Since the size of the CAMs' constituent elements are commensurate with the operating wavelength of the device, it cannot directly utilise classical transformation optics in the same way as traditional metamaterials. By directly transforming the internal geometry of the system, and locally tuning the permittivity between cavities, we provide an alternative framework suitable for tight-binding implementations of metamaterials. We develop a CAM-based cloak as the case study.

id: 1304.1276
title: Photon trajectories, anomalous velocities, and weak measurements: A classical interpretation
authors: Konstantin Y. Bliokh, Aleksandr Y. Bekshaev, Abraham G. Kofman, Franco Nori
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, to appear in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 073022 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1276
abstract: Recently, Kocsis et al. reported the observation of "average trajectories of single photons" in a two-slit interference experiment [Science 332, 1170 (2011)]. This was possible by using the quantum weak-measurements method, which implies averaging over many events, i.e., in fact, a multi-photon limit of classical linear optics. We give a classical-optics interpretation to this experiment and other related problems. It appears that weak measurements of the local momentum of photons made by Kocsis et al. represent measurements of the Poynting vector in an optical field. We consider both the real and imaginary parts of the local momentum, and show that their measurements have been realized in classical optics using small probe particles. We also examine the appearance of "anomalous" values of the local momentum: either negative (backflow) or exceeding the wavenumber (superluminal propagation). These features appear to be closely related to vortices and evanescent waves. Finally, we revisit a number of older works and find examples of photon-trajectories and anomalous-momentum measurements in various optical experiments.

id: 1304.1292
title: Recent advances in contextuality tests
authors: Jayne Thompson, Pawel Kurzynski, Su-Yong Lee, Akihito Soeda, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 45 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1292
abstract: Our everyday experiences support the hypothesis that physical systems exist independently of the act of observation. Concordant theories are characterized by the objective realism assumption whereby the act of measurement simply reveals preexisting well defined elements of reality. In stark contrast quantum mechanics portrays a world in which reality loses its objectivity and is in fact created by observation. Quantum contextuality as first discovered by Bell [Rev. Mod. Phys. 38, 447 (1966)] and Kochen-Specker [J. Math. Mech. 17, 59 (1967)] captures aspects of this philosophical clash between classical and quantum descriptions of the world. Here we briefly summarize some of the more recent advances in the field of quantum contextuality. We approach quantum contextuality through its close relation to Bell type nonlocal scenarios and highlight some of the rapidly developing tests and experimental implementations.

id: 1304.1326
title: Process optimized quantum cloners via semidefinite programming
authors: M¨¢ty¨¢s Koniorczyk, L¨ªvia Dani, Vladim¨ªr Bu?ek
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1326
abstract: We apply semidefinite programming for designing 1 to 2 symmetric qubit quantum cloners. These are optimized for the average fidelity of their joint output state with respect to a product of multiple originals. We design 1 to 2 quantum bit cloners using the numerical method for finding completely positive maps approximating a nonphysical one optimally. We discuss the properties of the so-designed cloners.

id: 1304.1352
title: Reply to "Comment on `Optimal probe wave function of weak-value amplification' "
authors: Yuki Susa, Yutaka Shikano, Akio Hosoya
comments: 2 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 046102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1352
abstract: It is pointed out that the "counter example" presented in the Comment is a family of probe wave functions which are increasingly broad as the shift becomes large. Furthermore, the author's variational calculation is not correct in the sense that we have to gauge fix the freedom of the phase translation. It is shown that there are two kinds of solutions, normalizable and un-normalizable. The former is our optimal solution, and the latter is what he found. It seems only the former is relevant from a practical point of view.

id: 1304.1357
title: Trap-free manipulation in the Landau-Zener system
authors: Alexander Pechen, Nikolay Il'in
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052117 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1357
abstract: The analysis of traps, i.e., locally but not globally optimal controls, for quantum control systems has attracted a great interest in recent years. The central problem that has been remained open is to demonstrate for a given system either existence or absence of traps. We prove the absence of traps and hence completely solve this problem for the important tasks of unconstrained manipulation of the transition probability and unitary gate generation in the Landau-Zener system---a system with a wide range of applications across physics, chemistry and biochemistry. This finding provides the first example of a controlled quantum system which is completely free of traps. We also discuss the impact of laboratory constraints due to decoherence, noise in the control pulse, and restrictions on the available controls which when being sufficiently severe can produce traps.

id: 1304.1361
title: Semiclassical Ehrenfest Paths
authors: Rafael Liberalquino, Fernando Parisio
comments: To appear in Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1361
abstract: Trajectories are a central concept in our understanding of classical phenomena and also in rationalizing quantum mechanical effects. In this work we provide a way to determine semiclassical paths, approximations to quantum averages in phase space, directly from classical trajectories. We avoid the need of intermediate steps, like particular solutions to the Schroedinger equation or numerical integration in phase space by considering the system to be initially in a coherent state and by assuming that its early dynamics is governed by the Heller semiclassical approximation. Our result is valid for short propagation times only, but gives non-trivial information on the quantum-classical transition.

id: 1304.1376
title: An alternative proof of Wigner theorem on quantum transformations based on elementary complex analysis
authors: Amaury Mouchet
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 377 (2013) 2709-2711
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1376
abstract: According to Wigner theorem, transformations of quantum states which preserve the probabilities are either unitary or antiunitary. This short communication presents an elementary proof of this theorem that significantly departs from the numerous ones already existing in the literature. The main line of the argument remains valid even in quantum field theory where Hilbert spaces are non-separable.

id: 1304.1435
title: A Duality in Entanglement Enabling a Test of Quantum Indistinguishability Unaffected by Interactions
authors: S. Bose, D. Home
comments: Published Version. 5 pages, 1 figure, Superscedes arXiv:quant-ph/0505217
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 140404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1435
abstract: We point out an earlier unnoticed implication of quantum indistinguishability, namely, a property which we call `dualism' that characterizes the entanglement of two identical particles (say, two ions of the same species) -- a feature which is absent in the entanglement of two non-identical particles (say, two ions of different species). A crucial application of this property is that it can be used to test quantum indistinguishability without bringing the relevant particles together, thereby avoiding the effects of mutual interaction. This is in contrast to the existing tests of quantum indistinguishability. Such a scheme, being independent of the nature and strength of mutual interactions of the identical particles involved, has potential applications, including the probing of the transition from quantum indistinguishability to classical distinguishability.

id: 1304.1480
title: Anomalous magnetic moment of an electron near a dispersive surface
authors: Robert Bennett, Claudia Eberlein
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012107 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1480
abstract: Changes in the magnetic moment of an electron near a dielectric or conducting surface due to boundary-dependent radiative corrections are investigated. The electromagnetic field is quantized by normal mode expansion for a non-dispersive dielectric and an undamped plasma, but the electron is described by the Dirac equation without matter-field quantization. Perturbation theory in the Dirac equation leads to a general formula for the magnetic moment shift in terms of integrals over products of electromagnetic mode functions. In each of the models investigated contour integration techniques over a complex wave vector can be used to derive a general formula featuring just integrals over transverse electric and transverse magnetic reflection coefficients of the surface. Analysis of the magnetic moment shift for several classes of materials yields markedly different results from the previously considered simplistic 'perfect reflector' model, due to the inclusion of physically important features of the electromagnetic response of the surface such as evanescent field modes and dispersion in the material. For a general dispersive dielectric surface, the magnetic moment shift of a nearby electron can exceed the previous prediction of the perfect-reflector model by several orders of magnitude.

id: 1304.1490
title: On-chip quantum interference between silicon photon-pair sources
authors: Joshua W. Silverstone, Damien Bonneau, Kazuya Ohira, Nob Suzuki, Haruhiko Yoshida, Norio Iizuka, Mizunori Ezaki, Chandra M. Natarajan, Michael G. Tanner, Robert H. Hadfield, Val Zwiller, Graham D. Marshall, John G. Rarity, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Mark G. Thompson
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 8, 104-108 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1490
abstract: Large-scale integrated quantum photonic technologies will require the on-chip integration of identical photon sources with reconfigurable waveguide circuits. Relatively complex quantum circuits have already been demonstrated, but few studies acknowledge the pressing need to integrate photon sources and waveguide circuits together on-chip. A key step towards such large-scale quantum technologies is the integration of just two individual photon sources within a waveguide circuit, and the demonstration of high-visibility quantum interference between them. Here, we report a silicon-on-insulator device combining two four-wave mixing sources, in an interferometer with a reconfigurable phase shifter. We configure the device to create and manipulate two-colour (non-degenerate) or same-colour (degenerate), path-entangled or path-unentangled photon pairs. We observe up to 100.0+/-0.4% visibility quantum interference on-chip, and up to 95+/-4% off-chip. Our device removes the need for external photon sources, provides a path to increasing the complexity of quantum photonic circuits, and is a first step towards fully-integrated quantum technologies.

id: 1304.1555
title: A Return to the Optimal Detection of Quantum Information
authors: Eric Chitambar, Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 020302(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1555
abstract: In 1991, Asher Peres and William Wootters wrote a seminal paper on the nonlocal processing of quantum information [\textit{Phys. Rev. Lett.} \textbf{66} 1119 (1991)]. We return to their classic problem and solve it in various contexts. Specifically, for discriminating the "double trine" ensemble with minimum error, we prove that global operations are more powerful than local operations with classical communication (LOCC). Even stronger, there exists a finite gap between the optimal LOCC probability and that obtainable by separable operations (SEP). Additionally we prove that a two-way, adaptive LOCC strategy can always beat a one-way protocol. Our results provide the first known instance of "nonlocality without entanglement" in two qubit pure states.

id: 1304.1561
title: A study of transit times in Dirac tunneling
authors: Stefano De Leo
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A 46, 155306-11 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1561
abstract: Based on the Dirac equation, the behavior of relativistic electrons which tunnel a potential barrier of height V0 for incoming energies between V0 and V0+m is studied by using the wave packet formalism. The choice of this incoming energy zone guarantees that only electrons participate to the tunneling process. In the opaque limit, as shown in a previous analysis, the transit velocity is proportional to the barrier width and for relativistic potential tends to a constant value greater than $c$. In this paper, a new numerical study shows a very surprising result: superluminal transmissions are also evident for thin barriers.

id: 1304.1585
title: Operator folding and matrix product states in linearly-coupled bosonic arrays
authors: Jose Reslen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Mexican Journal of Physics (RMF) 59 p. 482-487 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1585
abstract: A protocol to obtain the matrix product state representation of a class of boson states is introduced. The proposal is presented in the context of linear systems and is tested by performing simulations of a reference model. The method can be applied regardless of the details of the coupling among modes and can be used to extract the most significant contribution of the tensorial representation. Characteristic issues as well as potential variants of the proposed protocol are discussed.

id: 1304.1591
title: Decoherence and Copenhagen Interpretation : A Scenario
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex ; 23 pages ; 3 figures. Presentation changed and Misprints corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1591
abstract: In this paper we give a reasonable explanation (not proof) to the Copenhagen interpretation of Quantum Mechanics from the view point of decoherence theory. Mathematical physicists with strong mission must prove {\bf the Copenhagen interpretation} at all costs.

id: 1304.1592
title: Bipartite bound entanglement in continuous variables through deGaussification
authors: F. E. S. Steinhoff, M. C. de Oliveira, J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1592
abstract: We introduce a class of bipartite entangled continuous variable states that are positive under partial transposition operation, i.e., PPT bound entangled. These states are based on realistic preparation procedures in optical systems, being thus a feasible option to generate and observe genuinely bipartite bound entanglement in high precision experiments. One fundamental step in our scheme is to perform a non-Gaussian operation over a single-mode Gaussian state; this deGaussification procedure is achieved through a modified single-photon addition, which is a procedure that has currently being investigated in diverse optical setups. Although dependent on a single-photon detection in a idler channel, the preparation can be made unconditional after a calibration of the apparatus. The detection and proof of bound entanglement is made by means of the Range Criterion, theory of Hankel operators and Gerschgorin Disk s perturbation theorems.

id: 1304.1597
title: Magnetic monopoles and synthetic spin-orbit coupling in Rydberg macrodimers
authors: Martin Kiffner, Wenhui Li, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 170402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1597
abstract: We show that sizeable Abelian and non-Abelian gauge fields arise in the relative motion of two dipole-dipole interacting Rydberg atoms. Our system exhibits two magnetic monopoles for adiabatic motion in one internal two-atom state. These monopoles occur at a characteristic distance between the atoms that is of the order of one micron. The deflection of the relative motion due to the Lorentz force gives rise to a clear signature of the effective magnetic field. In addition, we consider non-adiabatic transitions between two near-degenerate internal states and show that the associated gauge fields are non-Abelian. We present quantum mechanical calculations of this synthetic spin-orbit coupling and show that it realizes a velocity-dependent beamsplitter.

id: 1304.1640
title: Null weak values in multi-level systems
authors: Oded Zilberberg, Alessandro Romito, Yuval Gefen
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, conference proceeding
journal: Phys. Scr. 2012, 014014 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1640
abstract: A two-step measurement protocol of a quantum system, known as weak value (WV), has been introduced more than two decades ago by Aharonov et al. [1], and has since been studied in various contexts. Here we discuss another two-step measurement protocol which we dub null weak value (NWV). The protocol consists of a partial-collapse measurement followed by quantum manipulation on the system and finally a strong measurement. The first step is a strong measurement which takes place with small probability. The second strong measurement is used as postselection on the outcome of the earlier step. Not being measured in the partial-collapse stage (null outcome) leads to a non-trivial correlation between the two measurements. The NVW protocol, first defined for a two-level system [2], is generalized to a multi-level system, and compared to the standard-WV protocol.

id: 1304.1642
title: Standard and Null Weak Values
authors: Oded Zilberberg, Alessandro Romito, Yuval Gefen
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. To appear in Quantum Theory: A Two-Time Success Story: Yakir Aharonov Festschrift
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1642
abstract: Weak value (WV) is a quantum mechanical measurement protocol, proposed by Aharonov, Albert, and Vaidman. It consists of a weak measurement, which is weighed in, conditional on the outcome of a later, strong measurement. Here we define another two-step measurement protocol, null weak value (NVW), and point out its advantages as compared to WV. We present two alternative derivations of NWVs and compare them to the corresponding derivations of WVs.

id: 1304.1657
title: Limiting effects of geometrical and optical nonlinearities on the squeezing in optomechanics
authors: P. Djorw¨¦, S.G. Nana Engo, J.H. Talla Mb¨¦, P. Woafo
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1657
abstract: In recent experiments, the re-thermalization time of the mechanical resonator is stated as the limiting factor for quantum applications of optomechanical systems. To explain the origin of this limitation, an analytical nonlinear investigation supported by the recent successful experimental laser cooling parameters is carried out in this work. To this end, the effects of geometrical and the optical nonlinearities on the squeezing are studied and are in a good agreement with the experimental results. It appears that highly squeezed state are generated where these nonlinearities are minimized and that high nonlinearities are limiting factors to reach the quantum ground state.

id: 1304.1715
title: Enhanced optomechanical readout using optical coalescence
authors: Claudiu Genes, Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Guido Pupillo, Aur¨¦lien Dantan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033855 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1715
abstract: We present a scheme to strongly enhance the readout sensitivity of the squared displacement of a mobile scatterer placed in a Fabry-P\'erot cavity. We investigate the largely unexplored regime of cavity electrodynamics in which a highly reflective element positioned between the end mirrors of a symmetric Fabry-P\'erot resonator strongly modifies the cavity response function, such that two longitudinal modes with different spatial parity are brought close to frequency degeneracy and interfere in the cavity output field. In the case of a movable middle reflector we show that the interference in this generic "optical coalescence" phenomenon gives rise to an enhanced frequency shift of the peaks of the cavity transmission that can be exploited in optomechanics.

id: 1304.1730
title: Security of Plug-and-Play QKD Arrangements with Finite Resources
authors: Pedro J. Salas
comments: 
journal: Quant.Inf.Comp. (2013) 13, 861-879
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1730
abstract: The security of a passive plug-and-play QKD arrangement in the case of finite (resources) key lengths is analysed. It is assumed that the eavesdropper has full access to the channel so an unknown and untrusted source is assumed. To take into account the security of the BB84 protocol under collective attacks within the framework of quantum adversaries, a full treatment provides the well-known equations for the secure key rate. A numerical simulation keeping a minimum number of initial parameters constant as the total error sought and the number of pulses is carried out. The remaining parameters are optimized to produce the maximum secure key rate. Two main strategies are addressed: with and without two-decoy-states including the optimization of signal to decoy relationship.

id: 1304.1738
title: Violation of Leggett-type inequalities in the spin-orbit degrees of freedom of a single photon
authors: Filippo Cardano, Ebrahim Karimi, Lorenzo Marrucci, Corrado de Lisio, Enrico Santamato
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1738
abstract: We report the experimental violation of Leggett-type inequalities for a hybrid entangled state of spin and orbital angular momentum of a single photon. These inequalities give a physical criterion to verify the possible validity of a class of hidden-variable theories, originally named "crypto non-local", that are not excluded by the violation of Bell-type inequalities. In our case, the tested theories assume the existence of hidden variables associated with independent degrees of freedom of the same particle, while admitting the possibility of an influence between the two measurements, i.e. the so-called contextuality of observables. We observe a violation the Leggett inequalities for a range of experimental inputs, with a maximum violation of seven standard deviations, thus ruling out this class of hidden variable models with a high confidence.

id: 1304.1741
title: Quantification of linear entropy for quantum entanglement in He, H- and Ps- ions using highly-correlated Hylleraas functions
authors: Chien-Hao Lin, Yen-Chang Lin, Yew Kam Ho
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, Few-Body Systems, final version
journal: Few-Body Systems 54 (2013)2147-2153
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1741
abstract: The quantum entanglement for the two electrons in three-body atomic systems such as the helium atom, the hydrogen negative ion and the positronium negative ion are investigated by employing highly correlated Hylleraas functions to represent the ground states of such systems. As a measure of the spatial entanglement, the linear entropy of the reduced density matrix is calculated for the ground states. The required four-electron (12-dimensional) integrals are solved analytically such that they are suitable for machine computations. Results are compared with other calculations when available.

id: 1304.1749
title: Sensitivity of the decay of entanglement of quantum dot spin qubits to the magnetic field
authors: Pawe? Mazurek, Katarzyna Roszak, Ravindra W. Chhajlany, Pawe? Horodecki
comments: Improved version, title modified, Fig 2 corrected, references added, both the scientific content and the conclusions unchanged. Article: 5 pages, 2 figures; supplementary materials, 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 062318 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1749
abstract: We study the decay of entanglement of quantum dot electron-spin qubits under hyperfine interaction mediated decoherence. We show that two qubit entanglement of a single entangled initial state may exhibit decay characteristic of the two disentanglement regimes in a single sample, when the external magnetic field is changed. The transition is manifested by the supression of time-dependent entanglement oscillations which are superimposed on the slowly varying entanglement decay related to phase decoherence (which result in oscillatory behaviour of entanglement sudden death time as a function of the magnetic field). This unique behaviour allows us to propose the double quantum dot two-electron spin Bell state as a promising candidate for precise measurements of the magnetic field.

id: 1304.1752
title: Control of atomic Rydberg states using guided electrons
authors: T. Laycock, B. Olmos, T.W.A. Montgomery, W. Li, T.M. Fromhold, I. Lesanovsky
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1752
abstract: We present and analyze a simple model to illustrate the possibility of Rydberg state control by means of a moving guided electron. Specifically, we consider alkali metal atoms whose valence electron is initially prepared in a Rydberg s-state and investigate state changes induced by the interaction with the nearby passing electron. We analyze the dependence of the atomic final state, obtained after the passage, on the electron's momentum. We identify experimentally accessible parameter regimes and discuss the experimental feasibility of the proposed scheme. We furthermore discuss the possibility to excite and manipulate many-body states of a chain of interacting Rydberg atoms.

id: 1304.1767
title: On time and space double-slit experiments
authors: M. Bauer
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1767
abstract: Time double-slit interference experiments have been achieved and presented as complementary to spatial double-slit interference experiments, providing a further confirmation of the wave-particle duality. Numerical solutions of the free particle time dependent Schr\"odinger equation were presented as explanation of the experimental results, but have been objected to on the basis that the standard non relativistic quantum theory does not have the property of coherence in time. In this note the theoretical and experimental results are derived in a schematic but analytic solution of the TDSE with appropiate initial boundary conditions. The particular boundary conditions are justified by the experimental setups that actually result in having only a single electron at any given time in the double-slit arrangement; and consequently achieve the construction of double peak single electron wave packets. The progressive complementarity of "which-path" ("which-time") information and "space interference" ("oscillating time transient") pattern build up is also exhibited.

id: 1304.1800
title: Effective Hamiltonian for the hybrid double quantum dot qubit
authors: E. Ferraro, M. De Michielis, G. Mazzeo, M. Fanciulli, E. Prati
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Inf Process 13, 1155-1173 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1800
abstract: Quantum dot hybrid qubits formed from three electrons in double quantum dots represent a promising compromise between high speed and simple fabrication for solid state implementations of single qubit and two qubits quantum logic ports. We derive the Schrieffer-Wolff effective Hamiltonian that describes in a simple and intuitive way the qubit by combining a Hubbard-like model with a projector operator method. As a result, the Hubbard-like Hamiltonian is transformed in an equivalent expression in terms of the exchange coupling interactions between pairs of electrons. The effective Hamiltonian is exploited to derive the dynamical behaviour of the system and its eigenstates on the Bloch sphere to generate qubits operation for quantum logic ports. A realistic implementation in silicon and the coupling of the qubit with a detector are discussed.

id: 1304.1812
title: Tripartite quantum state violating the hidden influence constraints
authors: Tomer Jack Barnea, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Yeong-Cherng Liang, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 7 pages, essentially published version, updated acknowledgments
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022123 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1812
abstract: The possibility to explain quantum correlations via (possibly) unknown causal influences propagating gradually and continuously at a finite speed v > c has attracted a lot of attention recently. In particular, it could be shown that this assumption leads to correlations that can be exploited for superluminal communication. This was achieved studying the set of possible correlations that are allowed within such a model and comparing them to correlations produced by local measurements on a four-party entangled quantum state. Here, we report on a quantum state that allows for the same conclusion involving only three parties.

id: 1304.1866
title: Coarse-grained quantum state estimation for noisy measurements
authors: Yong Siah Teo, Jaroslav Rehacek, Zdenek Hradil
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022111 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1866
abstract: We introduce a straightforward numerical coarse-graining scheme to estimate quantum states for a set of noisy measurement outcomes, which are difficult to calibrate, that is based solely on the measurement data collected from these outcomes. This scheme involves the maximization of a weighted entropy function that is simple to implement and can readily be extended to any number of ill-calibrated noisy outcomes in a measurement set-up, thus offering practical applicability for general tomography experiments without additional knowledge or assumptions about the structures of the noisy outcomes. Simulation results for two-qubit quantum states show that coarse-graining can improve the tomographic efficiencies for noise levels ranging from low to moderately high values.

id: 1304.1892
title: Proposal for a computation procedure based on continuous-variable post-selected teleportation
authors: Roberto Bovolenta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1892
abstract: In this paper, we analyze a potential procedure based on the combination of an alternative information encoding system inside the state of an electromagnetic mode and on continuous-variable post-selected teleportation, for speed up computational power of a classic architecture up to resolution of problems in PSPACE.

id: 1304.1950
title: A generalization of Schmidt number for multipartite states
authors: Yu Guo, Heng Fan
comments: 10pages, some minors are corrected
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 13, No. 2 (2015) 1550025 (10 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1950
abstract: The Schmidt number is of crucial importance in characterizing the bipartite pure states. We explore and propose here a generalization of Schmidt number for states in multipartite systems. It is shown to be entanglement monotonic and valid for both pure and mixed states. In addition, the corresponding generalization of multipartite Schmidt coefficients is introduced. Our approach is applicable for systems with arbitrary number of parties and for arbitrary dimensions.

id: 1304.2025
title: Sequential quantum-enhanced measurement with an atomic ensemble
authors: A. V. Lebedev, P. Treutlein, G. Blatter
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012118 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2025
abstract: We propose a quantum-enhanced iterative (with $K$ steps) measurement scheme based on an ensemble of $N$ two-level probes which asymptotically approaches the Heisenberg limit $\delta_K \propto R^{-K/(K+1)}$, $R$ the number of quantum resources. The protocol is inspired by Kitaev's phase estimation algorithm and involves only collective manipulation and measurement of the ensemble. The iterative procedure takes the shot-noise limited primary measurement with precision $\delta_1\propto N^{-1/2}$ to increasingly precise results $\delta_K\propto N^{-K/2}$. A straightforward implementation of the algorithm makes use of a two-component atomic cloud of Bosons in the precision measurement of a magnetic field.

id: 1304.2028
title: Giant vacuum forces via transmission lines
authors: Ephraim Shahmoon, Igor Mazets, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 3 figures
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 111, 10485 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2028
abstract: Quantum electromagnetic fluctuations induce forces between neutral particles, known as the van der Waals (vdW) and Casimir interactions. These fundamental forces, mediated by virtual photons from the vacuum, play an important role in basic physics and chemistry, and in emerging technologies involving, e.g. micro-electromechanical systems or quantum information processing. Here we show that these interactions can be enhanced by many orders of magnitude upon changing the character of the mediating vacuum-modes. By considering two polarizable particles in the vicinity of any standard electric transmission line, along which photons can propagate in one dimension (1d), we find a much stronger and longer-range interaction than in free-space. This enhancement may have profound implications on many-particle and bulk systems, and impact the quantum technologies mentioned above. The predicted giant vacuum force is estimated to be measurable in a coplanar waveguide line.

id: 1304.2040
title: Checking the optimality of entanglement witnesses: an application to structural physical approximations
authors: R. Augusiak, J. Bae, J. Tura, M. Lewenstein
comments: 10 pages, one figure, paper based on the comment arXiv:1304.2040v1
journal: Journal of Physics A 47, 065301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2040
abstract: In 2008, the conjecture that structural physical approximations to optimal entanglement witnesses are separable states (in general unnormalized) was posed. In an attempt to disprove it, in [K.-C. Ha and S.-H. Kye, Separable states with unique decompositions, arXiv:1210.1088v3], Ha and Kye proposed a decomposable entanglement witness whose SPA is entangled and argued that it is optimal. In this note, which is based on a comment to the latter work [R. Augusiak et al., Comment on "Separable states with unique decompositions", arXiv:1304.2040v1], we show, both analytically and numerically, that this entanglement witness is not optimal, and as such it is not a counterexample to the conjecture. To this end, we make use of a method for checking optimality of entanglement witnesses developed already in [M. Lewenstein et al., Phys. Rev. A 62, 052310 (2000)], however, hardly exploited so far in the literature.

id: 1304.2071
title: How well can one jointly measure two incompatible observables on a given quantum state?
authors: Cyril Branciard
comments: 13 pages (7+6), 4 figures. Title changed in the published version to "Error-tradeoff and error-disturbance relations for incompatible quantum measurements", to comply with editorial policies
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 110, 6742-6747 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2071
abstract: Heisenberg's uncertainty principle is one of the main tenets of quantum theory. Nevertheless, and despite its fundamental importance for our understanding of quantum foundations, there has been some confusion in its interpretation: although Heisenberg's first argument was that the measurement of one observable on a quantum state necessarily disturbs another incompatible observable, standard uncertainty relations typically bound the indeterminacy of the outcomes when either one or the other observable is measured. In this paper, we quantify precisely Heisenberg's intuition. Even if two incompatible observables cannot be measured together, one can still approximate their joint measurement, at the price of introducing some errors with respect to the ideal measurement of each of them. We present a new, tight relation characterizing the optimal trade-off between the error on one observable versus the error on the other. As a particular case, our approach allows us to characterize the disturbance of an observable induced by the approximate measurement of another one; we also derive a stronger error-disturbance relation for this scenario.

id: 1304.2101
title: Controllable generation of mixed two-photon states
authors: Jibo Dai, Yink Loong Len, Yong Siah Teo, Leonid A. Krivitsky, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: submitted for publication
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 063011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2101
abstract: We report a controllable method for producing mixed two-photon states via Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion with a two-type-I crystal geometry. By using variable polarization rotators (VPRs), one obtains mixed states of various purities and degrees of entanglement depending on the parameters of the VPRs. The generated states are characterized by quantum state tomography. The experimental results are found to be in good agreement with the theory. The method can be easily implemented for various experiments which require the generation of states with controllable degrees of entanglement or mixedness.

id: 1304.2105
title: Nonlinear localized modes in PT-symmetric Rosen-Morse potential well
authors: Bikashkali Midya, Rajkumar Roychoudhury
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 87 (2013) 045803
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2105
abstract: We report the existence and properties of localized modes described by nonlinear Schroedinger equation with complex PT-symmetric Rosen-Morse potential well. Exact analytical expressions of the localized modes are found in both one dimensional and two-dimensional geometry with self-focusing and self-defocusing Kerr nonlinearity. Linear stability analysis reveals that these localized modes are unstable for all real values of the potential parameters although corresponding linear Schroedinger eigenvalue problem possesses unbroken PT-symmetry. This result has been verified by the direct numerical simulation of the governing equation. The transverse power flow density associated with these localized modes has also been examined.

id: 1304.2136
title: Energy and lifetime of resonant states with real basis sets
authors: Eloisa Cuestas, Pablo Serra
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: Journal of Physics B 46, 115001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2136
abstract: Using a probabilistic interpretation of resonant states, we propose a formula useful to calculate the lifetime of a resonance using square-integrable real basis-set expansion techniques. Our approach does not require an estimation of the density of states. The method is illustrated with calculations of $s$ and $p$ resonant-state energies and lifetimes.

id: 1304.2138
title: Long-lived oscillatory incoherent electron dynamics in molecules: trans-polyacetylene oligomers
authors: Ignacio Franco, Angel Rubio, Paul Brumer
comments: 
journal: I. Franco, A. Rubio and P. Brumer, New J. Phys. 15, 043004 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2138
abstract: We identify an intriguing feature of the electron-vibrational dynamics of molecular systems via a computational examination of \emph{trans}-polyacetylene oligomers. Here, via the vibronic interactions, the decay of an electron in the conduction band resonantly excites an electron in the valence band, and vice versa, leading to oscillatory exchange of electronic population between two distinct electronic states that lives for up to tens of picoseconds. The oscillatory structure is reminiscent of beating patterns between quantum states and is strongly suggestive of the presence of long-lived molecular electronic coherence. Significantly, however, a detailed analysis of the electronic coherence properties shows that the oscillatory structure arises from a purely incoherent process. These results were obtained by propagating the coupled dynamics of electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom in a mixed quantum-classical study of the Su-Schrieffer-Heeger Hamiltonian for polyacetylene. The incoherent process is shown to occur between degenerate electronic states with distinct electronic configurations that are indirectly coupled via a third auxiliary state by the vibronic interactions. A discussion of how to construct electronic superposition states in molecules that are truly robust to decoherence is also presented.

id: 1304.2192
title: Coupling of nitrogen vacancy centers in nanodiamonds by means of phonons
authors: Andreas Albrecht, Alex Retzker, Fedor Jelezko, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 28 pages (incl. appendices), 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 083014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2192
abstract: Realising controlled quantum dynamics via the magnetic interactions between colour centers in diamond remains a challenge despite recent demonstrations for nanometer separated pairs. Here we propose to use the intrinsic acoustical phonons in diamond as a data bus for accomplishing this task. We show that for nanodiamonds the electron-phonon coupling can take significant values that together with mode frequencies in the THz range, can serve as a resource for conditional gate operations. Based on these results we analyze how to use this phonon-induced interaction for constructing quantum gates among the electron-spin triplet ground states, introducing the phonon dependence via Raman transitions. Combined with decoupling pulses this offers the possibility for creating entangled states within nanodiamonds on the scale of several tens of nanometers, a promising prerequisite for quantum sensing applications.

id: 1304.2197
title: Violation of a new Wigner inequality with high angular momenta
authors: William N. Plick, Robert Fickler, Radek Lapkiewicz, Sven Ramelow
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, heavily modified from original version, close to what is to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2197
abstract: In the study of systems that cannot be described classically, the Wigner inequality, has received only a small amount of attention. In this paper we extend the Wigner inequality - originally derived in 1969 - and show how it may be used to contradict local realism with only coincidence detections in the absence of two-outcome measurements - that is, for any system where only one possible result of a pair of potential outcomes can be registered. It thus encapsulates a much broader class of measurement schemes than could previously violate a local-realistic inequality. This is possible due to an assumption of "extended fairness" on the measurement outcomes, which we posit is highly plausible. We then apply this inequality to a recently constructed setup with access to entangled pairs of photons with very high angular momenta, in which no previously derived local-realistic inequality could successfully be used without making very broad assumptions. To our knowledge this experiment constitutes a violation of local realism with the largest quanta to date. We thus demonstrate the versatility of this inequality under very lossy conditions.

id: 1304.2200
title: Avoiding dissipation in a system of three quantum harmonic oscillators
authors: Gonzalo Manzano, Fernando Galve, Roberta Zambrini
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032114 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2200
abstract: We analyze the symmetries in an open quantum system composed by three coupled and detuned harmonic oscillators in the presence of a common heat bath. It is shown analytically how to engineer the couplings and frequencies of the system so as to have several degrees of freedom unaffected by decoherence, irrespective of the specific spectral density or initial state of the bath. This partial thermalization allows observing asymptotic entanglement at moderate temperatures, even in the nonresonant case. This latter feature cannot be seen in the simpler situation of only two oscillators, highlighting the richer structural variety of the three-body case. When departing from the strict conditions for partial thermalization, a hierarchical structure of dissipation rates for the normal modes is observed, leading to a long transient where quantum correlations such as the quantum discord are largely preserved, as well as to synchronous dynamics of the oscillators quadratures.

id: 1304.2201
title: Dissipative ground-state preparation of a spin chain by a structured environment
authors: Cecilia Cormick, Alejandro Bermudez, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 16 pages, 10 figs
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 073027 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2201
abstract: We propose a dissipative method to prepare the ground state of the isotropic XY spin Hamiltonian in a transverse field. Our model consists of a spin chain with nearest-neighbour interactions and an additional collective coupling of the spins to a damped harmonic oscillator. The latter provides an effective environment with a Lorentzian spectral density and can be used to drive the chain asymptotically towards its multipartite-entangled ground state at a rate that depends on the degree of non-Markovianity of the evolution. We also present a detailed proposal for the experimental implementation with a chain of trapped ions. The protocol does not require individual addressing, concatenated pulses, or multi-particle jump operators, and is capable of generating the desired target state in small ion chains with very high fidelities.

id: 1304.2239
title: Trace distance and linear entropy of qubit states: Role of initial qubit-environment correlations
authors: Jerzy Dajka, Jerzy Luczka
comments: 
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 70, 193 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2239
abstract: The role of initial qubit-environment correlations on trace distance between two qubit states is studied in the framework of non--Markovian pure dephasing. The growth of mixedness of reduced state quantified by linear entropy is shown to be related to the degree of initial qubit--environment correlations.

id: 1304.2246
title: Differential Evolution for Many-Particle Adaptive Quantum Metrology
authors: Neil B. Lovett, C¨¦cile Crosnier, Mart¨ª Perarnau-Llobet, Barry C. Sanders
comments: Fig. 2(a) is the cover of Physical Review Letters Vol. 110 Issue 22
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 220501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2246
abstract: We devise powerful algorithms based on differential evolution for adaptive many-particle quantum metrology. Our new approach delivers adaptive quantum metrology policies for feedback control that are orders-of-magnitude more efficient and surpass the few-dozen-particle limitation arising in methods based on particle-swarm optimization. We apply our method to the binary-decision-tree model for quantum-enhanced phase estimation as well as to a new problem: a decision tree for adaptive estimation of the unknown bias of a quantum coin in a quantum walk and show how this latter case can be realized experimentally.

id: 1304.2264
title: Fidelity of photon propagation in electromagnetically induced transparency in the presence of four-wave mixing
authors: Nikolai Lauk, Christopher O'Brien, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2264
abstract: We study the effects of the four-wave mixing (4WM) in a quantum memory scheme based on electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). We treat the problem of field propagation on the quantum mechanical level, which allows us to calculate the fidelity for propagation for a quantum light pulse such as a single photon. While 4WM can be beneficial for classical, all-optical information storage, the quantum noise associated with the signal amplification and idler generation is in general detrimental for a quantum memory. We identify a range of parameters where 4WM makes a single photon quantum memory impossible.

id: 1304.2279
title: Local characterization of 1d topologically ordered states
authors: Jian Cui, Luigi Amico, Heng Fan, Mile Gu, Alioscia Hamma, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 7 pages, 11 figures. Minor corrections, reference added. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 125117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2279
abstract: We consider 1d Hamiltonian systems whose ground states display symmetry protected topological order. We show that ground states within the topological phase cannot be connected with each other through LOCC between a bipartition of the system. Our claim is demonstrated by analyzing the entanglement spectrum and Renyi entropies of different physical systems providing examples for symmetry protected topological phases. Specifically, we consider spin-1/2 Cluster-Ising model and a class of spin-1 models undergoing quantum phase transitions to the Haldane phase. Our results provide a probe for simmetry-protected topological order, that holds true even at the system's local scale. Therefore our analysis can serve as as local experimental test for topological order.

id: 1304.2282
title: In search of superluminal quantum communications: recent experiments and possible improvements
authors: Bruno Cocciaro, Sandro Faetti, Leone Fronzoni
comments: Presentation at the Sixth International Workshop DICE2012, Castello Pasquini/Castiglioncello (Tuscany), September 17-21, 2012 - 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 442, n. 1 (10 giugno 2013): 012005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2282
abstract: As shown in the famous \emph{EPR} paper (Einstein, Podolsky e Rosen,1935), Quantum Mechanics is non-local. The Bell theorem and the experiments by Aspect and many others, ruled out the possibility of explaining quantum correlations between entangled particles using local hidden variables models (except for implausible combinations of loopholes). Some authors (Bell, Eberhard, Bohm and Hiley) suggested that quantum correlations could be due to superluminal communications (tachyons) that propagate isotropically with velocity \emph{$v_{t}>c$} in a preferred reference frame. For finite values of \emph{$v_{t}$}, Quantum Mechanics and superluminal models lead to different predictions. Some years ago a Geneva group and our group did experiments on entangled photons to evidence possible discrepancies between experimental results and quantum predictions. Since no discrepancy was found, these experiments established only lower bounds for the possible tachyon velocities \emph{$v_{t}$}. Here we propose an improved experiment that should lead us to explore a much larger range of possible tachyon velocities \emph{$v_{t}$} for any possible direction of velocity $\vec{V}$ of the tachyons preferred frame.

id: 1304.2286
title: Complementarity as corollary
authors: R. M. Angelo, A. D. Ribeiro
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2286
abstract: Recently, Bohr's complementarity principle was assessed both theoretically and experimentally in setups involving delayed choices. These works argued in favor of a reformulation of the aforementioned principle so as to account for situations in which quantum systems would behave simultaneously as wave and particle. Here we defend a framework that, supported by well-known experimental results and consistent with the decoherence program, allows us to interpret complementarity in terms of correlations of the system with an informer. Our proposal offers an operational interpretation for the wavelike behavior both in terms of nonlocal resources and the couple work-information. Moreover, our results invite us to reconsider the current status of the complementarity principle.

id: 1304.2288
title: Near Heisenberg limited atomic clocks in the presence of decoherence
authors: Johannes Borregaard, Anders S. S?rensen
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures. Note that new reference: Y. Matsuzaki, S. C. Benjamin, and J. Fitzsimons, Phys. Rev. A 84, 012103 (2011) is added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 090801 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2288
abstract: The ultimate stability of atomic clocks is limited by the quantum noise of the atoms. To reduce this noise it has been suggested to use entangled atomic ensembles with reduced atomic noise. Potentially this can push the stability all the way to the limit allowed by the Heisenberg uncertainty relation, which is denoted the Heisenberg limit. In practice, however, entangled states are often more prone to decoherence, which may prevent reaching this performance. Here we present an adaptive measurement protocol that in the presence of a realistic source of decoherence enables us to get near Heisenberg limited stability of atomic clocks using entangled atoms. The protocol may thus realize the full potential of entanglement for quantum metrology despite the detrimental influence of decoherence.

id: 1304.2322
title: Coherent Josephson qubit suitable for scalable quantum integrated circuits
authors: R. Barends, J. Kelly, A. Megrant, D. Sank, E. Jeffrey, Y. Chen, Y. Yin, B. Chiaro, J. Mutus, C. Neill, P. O'Malley, P. Roushan, J. Wenner, T. C. White, A. N. Cleland, John M. Martinis
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, including supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 080502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2322
abstract: We demonstrate a planar, tunable superconducting qubit with energy relaxation times up to 44 microseconds. This is achieved by using a geometry designed to both minimize radiative loss and reduce coupling to materials-related defects. At these levels of coherence, we find a fine structure in the qubit energy lifetime as a function of frequency, indicating the presence of a sparse population of incoherent, weakly coupled two-level defects. This is supported by a model analysis as well as experimental variations in the geometry. Our `Xmon' qubit combines facile fabrication, straightforward connectivity, fast control, and long coherence, opening a viable route to constructing a chip-based quantum computer.

id: 1304.2328
title: Duality of Entanglement Norms
authors: Nathaniel Johnston, David W. Kribs
comments: 15 pages, to appear in the Houston Journal of Mathematics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2328
abstract: We consider four norms on tensor product spaces that have appeared in quantum information theory and demonstrate duality relationships between them. We show that the product numerical radius is dual to the robustness of entanglement, and we similarly show that the S(k)-norm is dual to the projective tensor norm. We show that, analogous to how the product numerical radius and the S(k)-norm characterize k-block positivity of operators, there is a natural version of the projective tensor norm that characterizes Schmidt number. In this way we obtain an elementary new proof of the cross norm criterion for separability, and we also generalize both the cross norm and realignment criteria to the case of arbitrary Schmidt number.

id: 1304.2332
title: Semiclassical description of collapses and revivals of quantum wave packets in bounded domains
authors: A. S. Trushechkin, I. V. Volovich
comments: 43 pages
journal: Izv. Math. 76 (2012) 39
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2332
abstract: We study a special kind of semiclassical limit of quantum dynamics on a circle and in a box (infinite potential well with hard walls) as the Planck constant tends to zero and time tends to infinity. The results give detailed information about all stages of evolution of quantum wave packets: semiclassical motion, collapses, revivals, as well as intermediate stages. In particular, we rigorously justify the fact that the spatial distribution of a wave packet is most of the time close to uniform. This fact was previously known only from numerical calculations. We apply the obtained results to a problem of classical mechanics: deciding whether recently suggested functional classical mechanics is preferable to traditional Newtonian one from the quantum-mechanical point of view. To do this, we study the semiclassical limit of the Husimi functions of quantum states. We show that functional mechanics remains valid at larger time scales than Newtonian one and, therefore, is preferable. Finally, we analyse the quantum dynamics in a box in case when the size of the box is known with a random error. We show that, in this case, the probability distribution of the position of a quantum particle is not almost periodic, but tends to a limit distribution as time indefinitely increases.

id: 1304.2336
title: One-shot lossy quantum data compression
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Joseph M. Renes, Renato Renner, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 36 pages
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory vol. 59, no. 12, pages 8057-8076 (December 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2336
abstract: We provide a framework for one-shot quantum rate distortion coding, in which the goal is to determine the minimum number of qubits required to compress quantum information as a function of the probability that the distortion incurred upon decompression exceeds some specified level. We obtain a one-shot characterization of the minimum qubit compression size for an entanglement-assisted quantum rate-distortion code in terms of the smooth max-information, a quantity previously employed in the one-shot quantum reverse Shannon theorem. Next, we show how this characterization converges to the known expression for the entanglement-assisted quantum rate distortion function for asymptotically many copies of a memoryless quantum information source. Finally, we give a tight, finite blocklength characterization for the entanglement-assisted minimum qubit compression size of a memoryless isotropic qubit source subject to an average symbol-wise distortion constraint.

id: 1304.2425
title: Non-additive dynamical Casimir atomic phases
authors: Fran?ois Impens, Claudio Ccapa Ttira, Paulo A. Maia Neto
comments: 5 pages, 2 Figures. Final version published in Journal of Physics B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 245503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2425
abstract: We discuss a fundamental property of open quantum systems: the quantum phases associated with their dynamical evolution are non-additive. We develop our argument by considering a multiple-path atom interferometer in the vicinity of a perfectly conducting plate. The coupling with the environment induces dynamical corrections to the atomic phases. In the specific example of a Casimir interaction, these corrections reflect the interplay between field retardation effects and the external atomic motion. Non-local open-system Casimir phase corrections are shown to be non-additive, which follows directly from the unseparability of the influence functional describing the coupling of the atomic waves to their environment. This is an unprecedented feature in atom optics, which may be used in order to isolate non-local dynamical Casimir phases from the standard quasi-static Casimir contributions.

id: 1304.2459
title: Back-action-free quantum optomechanics with negative-mass Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Keye Zhang, Pierre Meystre, Weiping Zhang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043632 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2459
abstract: We propose that the dispersion management of coherent atomic matter waves can be exploited to overcome quantum back-action in condensate-based optomechanical sensors. The effective mass of an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate modulated by an optical lattice can become negative, resulting in a negative-frequency optomechanical oscillator, a negative environment temperature, and optomechanical properties opposite to those of a positive-mass system. This enables a quantum-mechanics-free subsystem insulated from quantum back-action.

id: 1304.2463
title: Real-world two-photon interference and proof-of-principle quantum key distribution immune to detector attacks
authors: Allison Rubenok, Joshua A. Slater, Philip Chan, Itzel Lucio-Martinez, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1204.0738
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 130501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2463
abstract: Several vulnerabilities of single photon detectors have recently been exploited to compromise the security of quantum key distribution (QKD) systems. In this letter we report the first proof-of-principle implementation of a new quantum key distribution protocol that is immune to any such attack. More precisely, we demonstrated this new approach to QKD in the laboratory over more than 80 km of spooled fiber, as well as across different locations within the city of Calgary. The robustness of our fibre-based implementation, together with the enhanced level of security offered by the protocol, confirms QKD as a realistic technology for safeguarding secrets in transmission. Furthermore, our demonstration establishes the feasibility of controlled two-photon interference in a real-world environment, and thereby removes a remaining obstacle to realizing future applications of quantum communication, such as quantum repeaters and, more generally, quantum networks.

id: 1304.2527
title: Extreme spin squeezing for photons
authors: Morgan W. Mitchell, Federica A. Beduini
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 073027 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2527
abstract: We apply spin-squeezing techniques to identify and quantify highly multi-partite photonic entanglement in polarization-squeezed light. We consider a practical single-mode scenario, and find that Wineland-criterion polarization squeezing implies entanglement of a macroscopic fraction of the total photons. A Glauber-theory computation of the observable N-photon density matrix, with N up to 100, finds that N-partite entanglement is observable despite losses and without post-selection. We estimate that existing detectors could observe $\sim1000$-partite entanglement from a few dB of polarization squeezing.

id: 1304.2529
title: Solution of the Dicke model for N=3
authors: Daniel Braak
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. vol. 46, 224007 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2529
abstract: The N=3 Dicke model couples three qubits to a single radiation mode via dipole interaction and constitutes the simplest quantum-optical system allowing for Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states. In contrast to the case N=1 (the Rabi model), it is non-integrable if the counter-rotating terms are included. The spectrum is determined analytically, employing the singularity structure of an associated differential equation. While quasi-exact eigenstates known from the Rabi model do not exist, a novel type of spectral degeneracy becomes possible which is not associated with a symmetry of the system.

id: 1304.2532
title: Proposal for a loophole-free violation of Bell inequalities with a set of single photons and homodyne measurements
authors: Jean Etesse, R¨¦mi Blandino, Bhaskar Kanseri, Rosa Tualle-Brouri
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics, Vol.16, 053001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2532
abstract: We demonstrate that different kind of mesoscopic quantum states of light can be efficiently generated from a simple iterative scheme using homodyne heralding. These states exhibit strong non-classical features, and are of great interest for many applications such as quantum error-correcting codes or fundamental testings. On this basis we propose a protocol allowing a large loophole-free violation of a CHSH-type Bell inequality with a remarkable robustness to line losses.

id: 1304.2541
title: Source attack of decoy-state quantum key distribution using phase information
authors: Yan-Lin Tang, Hua-Lei Yin, Xiongfeng Ma, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Yang Liu, Hai-Lin Yong, Teng-Yun Chen, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022308 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2541
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) utilizes the laws of quantum mechanics to achieve information-theoretically secure key generation. This field is now approaching the stage of commercialization, but many practical QKD systems still suffer from security loopholes due to imperfect devices. In fact, practical attacks have successfully been demonstrated. Fortunately, most of them only exploit detection-side loopholes which are now closed by the recent idea of measurement-device-independent QKD. On the other hand, little attention is paid to the source which may still leave QKD systems insecure. In this work, we propose and demonstrate an attack that exploits a source-side loophole existing in qubit-based QKD systems using a weak coherent state source and decoy states. Specifically, by implementing a linear-optics unambiguous-state-discrimination measurement, we show that the security of a system without phase randomization --- which is a step assumed in conventional security analyses but sometimes neglected in practice --- can be compromised. We conclude that implementing phase randomization is essential to the security of decoy-state QKD systems under current security analyses.

id: 1304.2562
title: Weak Energy: Form and Function
authors: Allen D. Parks
comments: To appear in "Quantum Theory: A Two-Time Success Story"; Yakir Aharonov Festschrift
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2562
abstract: The equation of motion for a time-independent weak value of a quantum mechanical observable contains a complex valued energy factor - the weak energy of evolution. This quantity is defined by the dynamics of the pre-selected and post-selected states which specify the observable's weak value. It is shown that this energy: (i) is manifested as dynamical and geometric phases that govern the evolution of the weak value during the measurement process; (ii) satisfies the Euler-Lagrange equations when expressed in terms of Pancharatnam (P) phase and Fubini-Study (FS) metric distance; (iii) provides for a PFS stationary action principle for quantum state evolution; (iv) time translates correlation amplitudes; (v) generalizes the temporal persistence of state normalization; and (vi) obeys a time-energy uncertainty relation. A similar complex valued quantity - the pointed weak energy of an evolving state - is also defined and several of its properties in PFS-coordinates are discussed. It is shown that the imaginary part of the pointed weak energy governs the state's survival probability and its real part is - to within a sign - the Mukunda-Simon geometric phase for arbitrary evolutions or the Aharonov-Anandan (AA) phase for cyclic evolutions. Pointed weak energy gauge transformations and the PFS 1-form are discussed and the relationship between the PFS 1-form and the AA connection 1-form is established.

id: 1304.2655
title: Dynamical entanglement in coupled optical cavities
authors: K. Ziegler
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2655
abstract: We study the evolution of a photonic state in a coupled pair of anharmonic cavities and compare it with the corresponding system of two coupled harmonic cavities. The photons in the anharmonic cavities interact with a two-level atom and are described within the Jaynes-Cummings model. Starting from an eigenstate of the Jaynes-Cummings model with N photons, the evolution of this state in the presence of photon tunneling between the cavities is studied. We evaluate the spectral density, the dynamics of the return as well as the transition amplitudes and the probability for the dynamical creation of a N00N state.

id: 1304.2667
title: Measurement-based classical computation
authors: Matty J. Hoban, Joel J. Wallman, Hussain Anwar, Na?ri Usher, Robert Raussendorf, Dan E. Browne
comments: 5+3 pages, 2 figures. Latest version has a new title and has been rewritten to talk about other possible resource states. Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 140505 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2667
abstract: Measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC) is a model of quantum computation, in which computation proceeds via adaptive single qubit measurements on a multi-qubit quantum state. It is computationally equivalent to the circuit model. Unlike the circuit model, however, its classical analog is little studied. Here we present a classical analog of MBQC whose computational complexity presents a rich structure. To do so, we identify uniform families of quantum computations (refining the circuits introduced by Bremner, Jozsa and Shepherd in Proc. R. Soc. A 467, 459 (2011)) whose output is likely hard to exactly simulate (sample) classically. We demonstrate that these circuit families can be efficiently implemented in the MBQC model without adaptive measurement, and thus can be achieved in a classical analog of MBQC whose resource state is a probability distribution which has been created quantum mechanically. Such states (by definition) violate no Bell inequality, but nevertheless exhibit non-classicality when used as a computational resource - an imprint of their quantum origin.

id: 1304.2685
title: Quantum limit of laser cooling in dispersively- and dissipatively-coupled optomechanical systems
authors: Talitha Weiss, Andreas Nunnenkamp
comments: 4+1 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023850 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2685
abstract: Mechanical oscillators can be cooled by coupling them to an optical or microwave cavity. Going beyond the standard quantum noise approach we find an analytic expression for the steady-state phonon number in systems where the position of the mechanical oscillator modulates the cavity frequency as well as the cavity line width. We trace the origin for the quantum limit of cooling to fluctuations in the optical force both at and away from the mechanical frequency. Finally, we calculate the minimal phonon number for the different types of coupling. Our study elucidates how to beneficially combine dispersive and dissipative optomechanical coupling.

id: 1304.2761
title: Probing the Leggett-Garg Inequality for Oscillating Neutral Kaons and Neutrinos
authors: D. Gangopadhyay, D. Home, A. Sinha Roy
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, latex
journal: Phys.Rev. A88 (2013) 022115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2761
abstract: The Leggett-Garg inequality (LGI) as a temporal analogue of Bell's inequality, derived using the notion of realism, is applied in a hitherto unexplored context involving the weak interaction induced two-state oscillations of decaying neutral kaons and neutrinos. The maximum violation of LGI obtained from the quantum mechanical results is significantly higher for the oscillating neutrinos compared to that for the kaons. Interestingly, the effect of CP non-invariance for the kaon oscillation is to enhance this violation while, for neutrinos, it is sensitive to the value of the mixing parameter.

id: 1304.2786
title: Crossover from Bosonic to Fermionic features in Composite Boson Systems
authors: A. Thilagam
comments: 11 pages, 4 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2786
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of conversion of composite bosons into fermionic fragment species with increasing densities of bound fermion pairs using the open quantum system approach. The Hilbert space of $N$-state-function is decomposed into a composite boson subspace and an orthogonal fragment subspace of quasi-free fermions that enlarges as the composite boson constituents deviate from ideal boson commutation relations. The tunneling dynamics of coupled composite boson states in confined systems is examined, and the appearance of exceptional points under experimentally testable conditions (densities, lattice temperatures) is highlighted. The theory is extended to examine the energy transfer between macroscopically coherent systems such as multichromophoric macromolecules (MCMMs) in photosynthetic light harvesting complexes.

id: 1304.2807
title: Quantum circuit optimization by topological compaction in the surface code
authors: Adam Paetznick, Austin G. Fowler
comments: 26 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2807
abstract: The fragile nature of quantum information limits our ability to construct large quantities of quantum bits suitable for quantum computing. An important goal, therefore, is to minimize the amount of resources required to implement quantum algorithms, many of which are serial in nature and leave large numbers of qubits idle much of the time unless compression techniques are used. Furthermore, quantum error-correcting codes, which are required to reduce the effects of noise, introduce additional resource overhead. We consider a strategy for quantum circuit optimization based on topological deformation in the surface code, one of the best performing and most practical quantum error-correcting codes. Specifically, we examine the problem of minimizing computation time on a two-dimensional qubit lattice of arbitrary, but fixed dimension, and propose two algorithms for doing so.

id: 1304.2838
title: EIT-like phenomenon with two atomic ensembles in a cavity
authors: Yusuf Turek, Yong Li, C.P.Sun
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053827 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2838
abstract: We study the spectra of collective low excitations of two atomic ensembles coupled indirectly through a single-mode cavity field. When the left ensemble is driven with an external optical field, its corresponding response spectrum to the incident optical light shows an electromagnetically induced transparency- (EIT-) like phenomenon when the layers are arranged in the sequence of node-antinode but not in the sequence of antinode-node. In the case of antinode-antinode sequence, the response spectrum shows an EIT-like phenomenon with two transparent windows. We also investigate the fluctuation spectra of the atomic collective excitation modes, which show similar EIT-like phenomena.

id: 1304.2857
title: Optimum Phase Space Probabilities From Quantum Tomography
authors: Arunabha S. Roy, S. M. Roy
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2857
abstract: We determine a positive normalised phase space probability distribution $P$ with minimum mean square fractional deviation from the Wigner distribution $W$ .The minimum deviation, an invariant under phase space rotations, is a quantitative measure of the quantumness of the state.The positive distribution closest to $W$ will be useful in quantum mechanics and in time frequency analysis .

id: 1304.2861
title: Dirac equation with a magnetic field in 3D non-commutative phase space
authors: Mai-Lin Liang, Ya-Bin Zhang, Rui-Lin Yang, Fu-Lin Zhang
comments: 10 pages. Submitted to 'Chinese Physics C'
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2861
abstract: For a spin-1/2 particle moving in a background magnetic field in noncommutative phase space, Dirac equation is solved when the particle is allowed to move off the plane that the magnetic field is perpendicular to. It is shown that the motion of the charged particle along the magnetic field has the effect to increase the magnetic field. In the classical limit, matrix elements of the velocity operator related to the probability give a clear physical picture: Along an effective magnetic field the mechanical momentum is conserved and the motion perpendicular to the effective magnetic field follows a round orbit. If using the velocity operator defined by the coordinate operators, the motion becomes complicated.

id: 1304.2864
title: Steady entanglement out of thermal equilibrium
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Mauro Antezza
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication
journal: Europhys. Lett. 104, 10006 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2864
abstract: We study two two-level atomic quantum systems (qubits) placed close to a body held at a temperature different from that of the surrounding walls. While at thermal equilibrium the two-qubit dynamics is characterized by not entangled steady thermal states, we show that absence of thermal equilibrium may bring to the generation of entangled steady states. Remarkably, this entanglement emerges from the two-qubit dissipative dynamic itself, without any further external action on the two qubits, suggesting a new protocol to produce and protect entanglement which is intrinsically robust to environmental effects.

id: 1304.2879
title: Ising models and topological codes: classical algorithms and quantum simulation
authors: M. Van den Nest, W. D¨¹r
comments: 5 pages + supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012334 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2879
abstract: We present an algorithm to approximate partition functions of 3-body classical Ising models on two-dimensional lattices of arbitrary genus, in the real-temperature regime. Even though our algorithm is purely classical, it is designed by exploiting a connection to topological quantum systems, namely the color codes. The algorithm performance is exponentially better than other approaches which employ mappings between partition functions and quantum state overlaps. In addition, our approach gives rise to a protocol for quantum simulation of such Ising models by simply measuring local observables on color codes.

id: 1304.2885
title: Modeling double slit interference via anomalous diffusion: independently variable slit widths
authors: Johannes Mesa Pascasio, Siegfried Fussy, Herbert Schwabl, Gerhard Groessing
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physica A 392, 12 (2013) 2718-2727
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2885
abstract: Based on a re-formulation of the classical explanation of quantum mechanical Gaussian dispersion (Groessing et al. 2010) as well as interference of two Gaussians (Groessing et al. 2012), we present a new and more practical way of their simulation. The quantum mechanical "decay of the wave packet" can be described by anomalous sub-quantum diffusion with a specific diffusivity varying in time due to a particle's changing thermal environment. In a simulation of the double-slit experiment with different slit widths, the phase with this new approach can be implemented as a local quantity. We describe the conditions of the diffusivity and, by connecting to wave mechanics, we compute the exact quantum mechanical intensity distributions, as well as the corresponding trajectory distributions according to the velocity field of two Gaussian wave packets emerging from a double-slit. We also calculate probability density current distributions, including situations where phase shifters affect a single slit's current, and provide computer simulations thereof.

id: 1304.2887
title: Entanglement measure using Wigner function: case of generalized vortex state formed by multiphoton subtraction
authors: Anindya Banerji, Ravindra P. Singh, Abir Bandyopadhyay
comments: 7 pages, revtex4, 19 figures. Final version
journal: Optics Communications, Vol 330 (2014) pp. 85-90
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2887
abstract: The negativity of the Wigner function is discussed as a measure of the non classicality and the quantum interference pattern obtained therein as a possible measure of the entanglement between the two modes of the vortex states. This measure of entanglement is compared with the results obtained from concurrence.

id: 1304.2910
title: Quantum replication at the Heisenberg limit
authors: Giulio Chiribella, Yuxiang Yang, Andrew Chi-Chih Yao
comments: 9 + 16 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2915 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2910
abstract: No process in nature can perfectly clone an arbitrary quantum state. But is it possible to engineer processes that replicate quantum information with vanishingly small error? Here we demonstrate the possibility of probabilistic super-replication phenomena where N equally prepared quantum clocks are transformed into a much larger number of M nearly perfect replicas, with an error that rapidly vanishes whenever M is small compared to the square of N. The quadratic replication rate is the ultimate limit imposed by Quantum Mechanics to the proliferation of information and is fundamentally linked with the Heisenberg limit of quantum metrology.

id: 1304.2912
title: Demonstration of Weak Measurement Based on Atomic Spontaneous Emission
authors: Itay Shomroni, Orel Bechler, Serge Rosenblum, Barak Dayan
comments: Final version as appears in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 023604 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2912
abstract: We demonstrate a new type of weak measurement based on the dynamics of spontaneous emission. The pointer in our scheme is given by the Lorentzian distribution characterizing atomic exponential decay via emission of a single photon. We thus introduce weak measurement, so far demonstrated nearly exclusively with laser beams and Gaussian statistics, into the quantum regime of single emitters and single quanta, enabling the exploitation of a wide class of sources that are abundant in nature. We describe a complete analogy between our scheme and weak measurement with conventional Gaussian pointers. Instead of a shift in the mean of a Gaussian distribution, an imaginary weak value is exhibited in our scheme by a significantly slower-than-natural exponential distribution of emitted photons at the postselected polarization, leading to a large shift in their mean arrival time. The dynamics of spontaneous emission offer a broader view of the measurement process than is usually considered within the weak measurement formalism. Our scheme opens the path for the use of atoms and atomlike systems as sensitive probes in weak measurements, one example being optical magnetometry.

id: 1304.2914
title: Quantum discord cannot be shared
authors: Alexander Streltsov, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 040401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2914
abstract: Niels Bohr proposed that the outcome of the measurement becomes objective and real, and, hence, classical, when its results can be communicated by classical means. In this work we revisit Bohr's postulate using modern tools from the quantum information theory. We find a full confirmation of Bohr's idea: if a measurement device is in a nonclassical state, the measurement results cannot be communicated perfectly by classical means. In this case some part of information in the measurement apparatus is lost in the process of communication: the amount of this lost information turns out to be the quantum discord. The information loss occurs even when the apparatus is not entangled with the system of interest. The tools presented in this work allow to generalize Bohr's postulate: we show that for pure system-apparatus states quantum communication does not provide any advantage when measurement results are communicated to more than one recipient. We further demonstrate the superiority of quantum communication to two recipients on a mixed system-apparatus state and show that this effect is fundamentally different from quantum state cloning.

id: 1304.2954
title: Tomography scheme for two spin-1/2 qubits in a double quantum dot
authors: Niklas Rohling, Guido Burkard
comments: 23 single-column pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2954
abstract: We present a scheme for full quantum state tomography tailored for two spin qubits in a double quantum dot. A set of 15 quantum states allows to determine the density matrix in this two-qubit space by projective measurement. In this paper we choose a set gained from mutually unbiased bases. We determine how those 15 projections can be represented by charge measurements after a spin-to-charge conversion and the application of quantum gates. The quantum gates include exchange-based gates as well as rotations by electron spin resonance (ESR). We assume the experimental realization of ESR operations to be more difficult than the exchange gate operation. Therefore, it is an important result that the ESR gates are limited by a pi/2 rotation for one of the electron spins per measurement.

id: 1304.2975
title: Fidelity of the surface code in the presence of a bosonic bath
authors: P. Jouzdani, E. Novais, E. R. Mucciolo
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012336 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2975
abstract: We study the resilience of the surface code to decoherence caused by the presence of a bosonic bath. This approach allows us to go beyond the standard stochastic error model commonly used to quantify decoherence and error threshold probabilities in this system. The full quantum mechanical system-bath dynamics is computed exactly over one quantum error correction cycle. Since all physical qubits interact with the bath, space-time correlations between errors are taken into account. We compute the fidelity of the surface code as a function of the quantum error correction time. The calculation allows us to map the problem onto an Ising-like statistical spin model with two-body interactions and a fictitious temperature which is related to the inverse bath coupling constant. The model departs from the usual Ising model in the sense that interactions can be long ranged and can involve complex exchange couplings; in addition, the number of allowed configurations is restricted by the syndrome extraction. Using analytical estimates and numerical calculations, we argue that, in the limit of an infinite number of physical qubits, the spin model sustain a phase transition which can be associated to the existence of an error threshold in the surface code. An estimate of the transition point is given for the case of nearest-neighbor interactions.

id: 1304.3061
title: A variational eigenvalue solver on a quantum processor
authors: Alberto Peruzzo, Jarrod McClean, Peter Shadbolt, Man-Hong Yung, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Peter J. Love, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications, 5:4213, (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3061
abstract: Quantum computers promise to efficiently solve important problems that are intractable on a conventional computer. For quantum systems, where the dimension of the problem space grows exponentially, finding the eigenvalues of certain operators is one such intractable problem and remains a fundamental challenge. The quantum phase estimation algorithm can efficiently find the eigenvalue of a given eigenvector but requires fully coherent evolution. We present an alternative approach that greatly reduces the requirements for coherent evolution and we combine this method with a new approach to state preparation based on ans\"atze and classical optimization. We have implemented the algorithm by combining a small-scale photonic quantum processor with a conventional computer. We experimentally demonstrate the feasibility of this approach with an example from quantum chemistry: calculating the ground state molecular energy for He-H+, to within chemical accuracy. The proposed approach, by drastically reducing the coherence time requirements, enhances the potential of the quantum resources available today and in the near future.

id: 1304.3064
title: The Quantum Harmonic Oscillator in the ESR Model
authors: Sandro Sozzo
comments: 13 pages, accepted for publication in Found. Phys. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1107.2271
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3064
abstract: The ESR model proposes a new theoretical perspective which incorporates the mathematical formalism of standard (Hilbert space) quantum mechanics (QM) in a noncontextual framework, reinterpreting quantum probabilities as conditional on detection instead of absolute. We have provided in some previous papers mathematical representations of the physical entities introduced by the ESR model, namely observables, properties, pure states, proper and improper mixtures, together with rules for calculating conditional and overall probabilities, and for describing transformations of states induced by measurements. We study in this paper the relevant physical case of the quantum harmonic oscillator in our mathematical formalism. We reinterpret the standard quantum rules for probabilities, provide new expressions for absolute probabilities, and show how the standard state transformations must be modified according to the ESR model.

id: 1304.3166
title: Quantum Storage and Retrieval of Light by Sweeping the Atomic Frequency
authors: Hamidreza Kaviani, Mohammad Khazali, Roohollah Ghobadi, Ehsan Zahedinejad, Khabat Heshami, Christoph Simon
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 085029 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3166
abstract: We propose a quantum memory protocol based on dynamically changing the resonance frequency of an ensemble of two-level atoms. By sweeping the atomic frequency in an adiabatic fashion, photons are reversibly transferred into atomic coherences. We present a polaritonic description for this type of storage, which shares some similarities with Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) based quantum memories. On the other hand the proposed memory is also linked to the Gradient Echo Memory (GEM) due to the effective spatial gradient that pulses experience in the medium. We discuss a possible implementation of the protocol in hollow-core photonic crystal fibers.

id: 1304.3190
title: Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians in decoherence and equilibrium theory
authors: Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin
comments: 23 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1009.0535, arXiv:1006.2130
journal: Mario Castagnino and Sebastian Fortin 2012 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 444009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3190
abstract: There are many formalisms to describe quantum decoherence. However, many of them give a non general and ad hoc definition of "pointer basis" or "moving preferred basis", and this fact is a problem for the decoherence program. In this paper we will consider quantum systems under a general theoretical framework for decoherence and we will present a tentative definition of the moving preferred basis. These ideas are implemented in a well-known open system model. The obtained decoherence and the relaxation times are defined and compared with those of the literature for the Lee- Friedrichs model.

id: 1304.3194
title: Non-Markovianity during quantum Zeno effect
authors: A. Thilagam
comments: 14 pages, 4 figs., Journal of Chemical Physics (2013), to appear
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3194
abstract: We examine the Zeno and anti-Zeno effects in the context of non-Markovian dynamics in entangled spin-boson systems in contact with noninteracting reservoirs. We identify enhanced non-Markovian signatures in specific two-qubit partitions of a Bell-like initial state, with results showing that the intra-qubit Zeno effect or anti-Zeno effect occurs in conjunction with inter-qubit non-Markovian dynamics for a range of system parameters. The time domain of effective Zeno or anti-Zeno dynamics is about the same order of magnitude as the non-Markovian time scale of the reservoir correlation dynamics, and changes in decay rate due to the Zeno mechanism appears coordinated with information flow between specific two-qubit partitions. We extend our analysis to examine the Zeno mechanism-non-Markovianity link using the tripartite states arising from a donor-acceptor-sink model of photosynthetic biosystems.

id: 1304.3270
title: Entanglement-enhanced detection of single-photon scattering events
authors: C. Hempel, B. P. Lanyon, P. Jurcevic, R. Gerritsma, R. Blatt, C. F. Roos
comments: published version (including significant improvements compared to the previous preprints)
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 630-633 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3270
abstract: The ability to detect the interaction of light and matter at the single-particle level is becoming increasingly important for many areas of science and technology. The absorption or emission of a photon on a narrow transition of a trapped ion can be detected with near unit probability, thereby enabling the realization of ultra-precise ion clocks and quantum information processing applications. Extending this sensitivity to broad transitions is challenging due to the difficulty of detecting the rapid photon scattering events in this case. Here, we demonstrate a technique to detect the scattering of a single photon on a broad optical transition with high sensitivity. Our approach is to use an entangled state to amplify the tiny momentum kick an ion receives upon scattering a photon. The method should find applications in spectroscopy of atomic and molecular ions and quantum information processing.

id: 1304.3331
title: Zhu-Nakamura theory and the superparabolic level-glancing models
authors: Jaakko Lehto
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3331
abstract: We study the applicability of the Zhu-Nakamura theory to a class of time-dependent quantum mechanical level-crossing models called superparabolic level-glancing models. The phenomenon of a level glancing, being on the borderline between a proper crossing of energy levels and an avoided crossing, is also an important special case between the two different approximative expressions in the Zhu-Nakamura theory. It is seen that the application of the theory to these models is not straightforward. We discuss some possible causes of these difficulties and also compare the approximative formulas of Zhu-Nakamura theory to those obtained by the generalization of the DDP theory.

id: 1304.3334
title: Geometric quantum discord with Bures distance
authors: Dominique Spehner, Miguel Orszag
comments: The first version has been split into two papers. Sec. V have been removed. The results of this section are published separately in a new preprint arXiv:1308.5005. Minor changes with respect to the second version. 24 pages, no figure
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 103001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3334
abstract: We define a new measure of quantum correlations in bipartite quantum systems given by the Bures distance of the system state to the set of classical states with respect to one subsystem, that is, to the states with zero quantum discord. Our measure is a geometrical version of the quantum discord. As the latter it quantifies the degree of non-classicality in the system. For pure states it is identical to the geometric measure of entanglement. We show that for mixed states it coincides with the optimal success probability of an ambiguous quantum state discrimination task. Moreover, the closest zero-discord states to a given state are obtained in terms of the corresponding optimal measurements.

id: 1304.3338
title: Does the Feigel effect violate the first law?
authors: Ottavio A. Croze
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3338
abstract: A recent theory by Feigel posits that the quantum vacuum can transfer momentum to magnetoelectric media (the Feigel effect). The theory's predictions of this effect have yet to be observed experimentally. Theoretically, the existence of the phenomenon remains contentious. Many related theories of vacuum momentum transfer have been proposed. Some investigations predict a measurable effect, others conclude the momentum transfer is not physically possible. Some of these, including Feigel's original analysis, do not model an experimentally realistic geometry. I recently derived an alternative derivation of Feigel's original theory and applied it to realistic, experimentally testable geometries. I here show here that in such geometries the existence of a steady Feigel effect is equivalent to a violation of the first law of thermodynamics: the momentum extracted from the vacuum leads macroscopically to a stress, which could be used to carry out work with no energy input. This is a very strong argument that a steady Feigel effect should not be observable. I will show how indeed a semi-classical analysis, with proper consideration of boundaries, predicts there should be no net vacuum contribution on a magnetoelectric medium.

id: 1304.3340
title: Detecting quantum non-Gaussianity via the Wigner function
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Mattia L. Palma, Tommaso Tufarelli, Stefano Olivares, M. S. Kim, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062104 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3340
abstract: We introduce a family of criteria to detect quantum non-Gaussian states of a harmonic oscillator, that is, quantum states that can not be expressed as a convex mixture of Gaussian states. In particular we prove that, for convex mixtures of Gaussian states, the value of the Wigner function at the origin of phase space is bounded from below by a non-zero positive quantity, which is a function only of the average number of excitations (photons) of the state. As a consequence, if this bound is violated then the quantum state must be quantum non-Gaussian. We show that this criterion can be further generalized by considering additional Gaussian operations on the state under examination. We then apply these criteria to various non-Gaussian states evolving in a noisy Gaussian channel, proving that the bounds are violated for high values of losses, and thus also for states characterized by a positive Wigner function.

id: 1304.3367
title: Analysis of a rate-adaptive reconciliation protocol and the effect of the leakage on the secret key rate
authors: David Elkouss, Jesus Martinez-Mateo, Vicente Martin
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review A. This submission supersedes arXiv:1007.0904
journal: Physical Review A 87, 042334 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3367
abstract: Quantum key distribution performs the trick of growing a secret key in two distant places connected by a quantum channel. The main reason is that the legitimate users can bound the information gathered by the eavesdropper. In practical systems, whether because of finite resources or external conditions, the quantum channel is subject to fluctuations. A rate adaptive information reconciliation protocol, that adapts to the changes in the communication channel, is then required to minimize the leakage of information in the classical postprocessing. We consider here the leakage of a rate-adaptive information reconciliation protocol. The length of the exchanged messages is larger than that of an optimal protocol; however, we prove that the min-entropy reduction is limited. The simulation results, both on the asymptotic and in the finite-length regime, show that this protocol allows to increase the amount of distillable secret key.

id: 1304.3511
title: High Speed, High Fidelity Detection of an Atomic Hyperfine Qubit
authors: Rachel Noek, Geert Vrijsen, Daniel Gaultney, Emily Mount, Taehyun Kim, Peter Maunz, Jungsang Kim
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3511
abstract: Fast and efficient detection of the qubit state in trapped ion quantum information processing is critical for implementing quantum error correction and performing fundamental tests such as a loophole-free Bell test. In this work we present a simple qubit state detection protocol for a $^{171}$Yb$^+$ hyperfine atomic qubit trapped in a microfabricated surface trap, enabled by high collection efficiency of the scattered photons and low background photon count rate. We demonstrate average detection times of 10.5, 28.1 and 99.8\,$\upmu$s, corresponding to state detection fidelities of 99%, 99.85(1)% and 99.915(7)%, respectively.

id: 1304.3532
title: Efficient Spin Squeezing with Optimized Pulse Sequences
authors: Chao Shen, Luming Duan
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 051801(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3532
abstract: Spin squeezed states are a class of entangled states of spins that have practical applications to precision measurements. In recent years spin squeezing with one-axis twisting (OAT) has been demonstrated experimentally with spinor BECs with more than 10^3 atoms. Although the noise is below the standard quantum limit, the OAT scheme cannot reduce the noise down to the ultimate Heisenberg limit. Here we propose an experimentally feasible scheme based on optimized quantum control to greatly enhance the performance of OAT to approach the Heisenberg limit, requiring only an OAT Hamiltonian and the use of several coherent driving pulses. The scheme is robust against technical noise and can be readily implemented for spinor BECs or trapped ions with current technology.

id: 1304.3547
title: Experimental observation of optical precursors in optically pumped crystals
authors: Zong-Quan Zhou, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages,4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 045801 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3547
abstract: We experimentally observed optical precursors in optically pumped crystals using polarization-based interference. By switching the user-programmable medium among the fast light, slow light and no-dispersion regimes, we observed an unchanged polarization states for the wavefronts. The robust polarization-encoded information carried by wavefronts suggests that precursors are the preferred carriers for both quantum and classical information in communication networks.

id: 1304.3582
title: Chaos in circuit QED: decoherence, localization, and nonclassicality
authors: Jonas Larson, Duncan H. J. O'Dell
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 224015 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3582
abstract: We study the open system dynamics of a circuit QED model operating in the ultrastrong coupling regime. If the resonator is pumped periodically in time the underlying classical system is chaotic. Indeed, the periodically driven Jaynes-Cummings model in the Born-Oppenheimer approximation resembles a Duffing oscillator which in the classical limit is a well-known example of a chaotic system. Detection of the field quadrature of the output field acts as an effective position measurement of the oscillator. We address how such detection affects the quantum chaotic evolution in this bipartite system. We differentiate between single measurement realizations and ensembles of repeated measurements. In the former case a measurement/decoherence induced localization effect is encountered, while in the latter this localization is almost completely absent. This is in marked contrast to numerous earlier works discussing the quantum-classical correspondence in measured chaotic systems. This lack of a classical correspondence under relatively strong measurement induced decoherence is attributed to the inherent quantum nature of the qubit subsystem and in particular to the quantum correlations between the qubit and the field which persist despite the decoherence.

id: 1304.3584
title: Accurate effective Hamiltonians via unitary flow in Floquet space
authors: Albert Verdeny, Andreas Mielke, Florian Mintert
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 175301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3584
abstract: We present a systematic construction of effective Hamiltonians of periodically driven quantum systems. Because of an equivalence between the time dependence of a Hamiltonian and an interaction in its Floquet operator, flow equations, that permit to decouple interacting quantum systems, allow us to identify time-independent Hamiltonians for driven systems. With this approach, we explain the experimentally observed deviation of expected suppression of tunneling in ultracold atoms.

id: 1304.3585
title: Integrability vs Quantum Thermalization
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 224016 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3585
abstract: Non-integrability is often taken as a prerequisite for quantum thermalization. Still, a generally accepted definition of quantum integrability is lacking. With the basis in the driven Rabi model we discuss this careless usage of the term "integrability" in connection to quantum thermalization. The model would be classified as non-integrable according to the most commonly used definitions, for example, the only preserved quantity is the total energy. Despite this fact, a thorough analysis conjectures that the system will not thermalize. Thus, our findings suggest first of all (i) that care should be paid when linking non-integrability with thermalization, and secondly (ii) that the standardly used definitions for quantum integrability are unsatisfactory.

id: 1304.3598
title: Bell tests with min-entropy sources
authors: Le Phuc Thinh, Lana Sheridan, Valerio Scarani
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures; similar to published version; comments are welcomed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062121 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3598
abstract: Device independent protocols rely on the violation of Bell inequalities to certify properties of the resources available. The violation of the inequalities are meaningless without a few well-known assumptions. One of these is measurement independence, the property that the source of the states measured in an inequality is uncorrelated from the measurements selected. Since this assumption cannot be confirmed, we consider the consequences of relaxing it and find that the definition chosen is critically important to the observed behavior. Considering a definition that is a bound on the min-entropy of the measurement settings, we find lower bounds on the min-entropy of the seed used to choose the inputs required to deduce any quantum or non-local behavior from a Bell inequality violation. These bounds are significantly more restrictive than the ones obtained by endowing the seed with the further structure of a Santha-Vazirani source. We also outline a procedure for finding tight bounds and study the set of probabilities that can result from relaxing measurement dependence.

id: 1304.3630
title: Interaction of Independent Single Photons based on Integrated Nonlinear Optics
authors: Thiago Guerreiro, Enrico Pomarico, Bruno Sanguinetti, Nicolas Sangouard, J. S. Pelc, C. Langrock, M. M. Fejer, Hugo Zbinden, Robert T. Thew, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2324 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3630
abstract: Photons are ideal carriers of quantum information, as they can be easily created and can travel long distances without being affected by decoherence. For this reason, they are well suited for quantum communication. However, the interaction between single photons is negligible under most circumstances. Realising such an interaction is not only fundamentally fascinating but holds great potential for emerging technologies. It has recently been shown that even weak optical nonlinearities between single photons can be used to perform important quantum communication tasks more efficiently than methods based on linear optics, which have fundamental limitations. Nonlinear optical effects at single photon levels in atomic media have been studied and demonstrated but these are neither flexible nor compatible with quantum communication as they impose restrictions on photons' wavelengths and bandwidths. Here we use a high efficiency nonlinear waveguide to observe the sum-frequency generation between a single photon and a single-photon level coherent state from two independent sources. The use of an integrated, room-temperature device and telecom wavelengths makes this approach to photon-photon interaction well adapted to long distance quantum communication, moving quantum nonlinear optics one step further towards complex quantum networks and future applications such as device independent quantum key distribution.

id: 1304.3632
title: Generation of quantum discord between ionic qubits via noisy processes
authors: B. P. Lanyon, P. Jurcevic, C. Hempel, M. Gessner, V. Vedral, R. Blatt, C. F. Roos
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 100504 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3632
abstract: Quantum systems in mixed states can be unentangled and yet still correlated in a way that is not possible for classical systems. These correlations can be quantified by the quantum discord and might provide a resource for certain mixed-state quantum information processing tasks. Here we report on the generation of discordant states of two trapped atomic ions via Markovian decoherence processes. While entanglement is strictly non-increasing under such operations, discord can be generated in various forms. Firstly we show that, starting from two classically correlated qubits, it is possible to generate discord by applying decoherence to just one of them. Secondly, even when starting with completely uncorrelated systems, we show that discord can be generated via classically correlated decoherence processes. Finally, the Werner states are created. The generated states can be used as a resource state for quantum information transmission and could be readily extended to more ions.

id: 1304.3659
title: Correlator expansion approach to stationary states of weakly coupled cavity arrays
authors: Elena del Valle, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: contribution to J. Phys. B special issue celebrating Jaynes-Cummings physics
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 224023 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3659
abstract: We introduce a method for calculating the stationary state of a translation invariant array of weakly coupled cavities in the presence of dissipation and coherent as well as incoherent drives. Instead of computing the full density matrix our method directly calculates the correlation functions which are relevant for obtaining all local quantities of interest. It considers an expansion of the correlation functions and their equations of motion in powers of the photon tunneling rate between adjacent cavities, leading to an exact second order solution for any number of cavities. Our method provides a controllable approximation for weak tunneling rates applicable to the strongly correlated regime that is dominated by nonlinearities in the cavities and thus of high interest.

id: 1304.3690
title: Unveiling and exemplifying the unitary equivalence of discrete time quantum walk models
authors: B F Venancio, F M Andrade, M G E da Luz
comments: 27 pages, 16 figures, published version
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 46, 165302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3690
abstract: The two major discrete time formulations for quantum walks, coined and scattering, are unitarily equivalent for arbitrary position dependent transition amplitudes and any topology (PRA {\bf 80}, 052301 (2009)). Although the proof explicit describes the mapping obtention, its high technicality may hinder relevant physical aspects involved in the equivalence. Discussing concrete examples -- the most general constructions for the line, square and honeycomb lattices -- here we unveil the similarities and differences of these two versions of quantum walks. We moreover show how to derive the dynamics of one from the other by means of proper projections. We perform calculations for different probability amplitudes like, Hadamard, Grover, Discrete Fourier Transform and the uncommon in the area (but interesting) Discrete Hartley Transform, comparing the evolutions. Our study illustrates the models interplay, an important issue for implementations and applications of such systems.

id: 1304.3693
title: Bifurcation, mode coupling and noise in a nonlinear multimode superconducting RF resonator
authors: G. Tancredi, G. Ithier, P. J. Meeson
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 063504, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3693
abstract: The addition of nonlinearity to an harmonic resonator provides a route to complex dynamical behaviour of resonant modes, including coupling between them. We present a superconducting device that makes use of the nonlinearity of Josephson junctions to introduce a controlled, tunable, nonlinear inductance to a thin film coplanar waveguide resonator. Considering the device as a potential quantum optical component in the microwave regime, we create a sensitive bifurcation amplifier and then demonstrate spectroscopy of other resonant modes via the intermode coupling. We find that the sensitivity of the device approaches within a factor two quantitative agreement with a quantum model by Dykman, but is limited by a noise that has its source(s) on-chip.

id: 1304.3703
title: Calculation of quantum discord and entanglement measures using the random mutations optimization algorithm
authors: A. Yu. Chernyavskiy
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3703
abstract: The simple and universal global optimization method based on simplified multipopulation genetic algorithm is presented. The method is applied to quantum information problems. It is compared to the genetic algorithm on standard test functions, and also tested on the calculation of quantum discord and minimal entanglement entropy, which is an entanglement measure for pure multipartite states.

id: 1304.3709
title: Universal fault-tolerant quantum computation with only transversal gates and error correction
authors: Adam Paetznick, Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, v2: corrected calculations and added plot of distillation resources
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 090505 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3709
abstract: Transversal implementations of encoded unitary gates are highly desirable for fault-tolerant quantum computation. Though transversal gates alone cannot be computationally universal, they can be combined with specially distilled resource states in order to achieve universality. We show that "triorthogonal" stabilizer codes, introduced for state distillation by Bravyi and Haah [Phys. Rev. A 86 052329 (2012)], admit transversal implementation of the controlled-controlled-Z gate. We then construct a universal set of fault-tolerant gates without state distillation by using only transversal controlled-controlled-Z, transversal Hadamard, and fault-tolerant error correction. We also adapt the distillation procedure of Bravyi and Haah to Toffoli gates, improving on existing Toffoli distillation schemes.

id: 1304.3719
title: Emergence of Quantum Mechanics from a Sub-Quantum Statistical Mechanics
authors: Gerhard Groessing
comments: 27 pages, 12 figures. Review paper. Invited Lecture at the "Advanced School on Quantum Foundations and Open Quantum Systems", July 16 - 28, 2012, Joao Pessoa (Brazil)
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, 28, 1450179 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3719
abstract: A research program within the scope of theories on "Emergent Quantum Mechanics" is presented, which has gained some momentum in recent years. Via the modeling of a quantum system as a non-equilibrium steady-state maintained by a permanent throughput of energy from the zero-point vacuum, the quantum is considered as an emergent system. We implement a specific "bouncer-walker" model in the context of an assumed sub-quantum statistical physics, in analogy to the results of experiments by Couder's group on a classical wave-particle duality. We can thus give an explanation of various quantum mechanical features and results on the basis of a "21st century classical physics", such as the appearance of Planck's constant, the Schr\"odinger equation, etc. An essential result is given by the proof that averaged particle trajectories' behaviors correspond to a specific type of anomalous diffusion termed "ballistic" diffusion on a sub-quantum level. It is further demonstrated both analytically and with the aid of computer simulations that our model provides explanations for various quantum effects such as double-slit or n-slit interference. We show the averaged trajectories emerging from our model to be identical to Bohmian trajectories, albeit without the need to invoke complex wave functions or any other quantum mechanical tool. Finally, the model provides new insights into the origins of entanglement, and, in particular, into the phenomenon of a "systemic" nonlocality.

id: 1304.3733
title: General Quantum Hilbert Space Modeling Scheme for Entanglement
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 11 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1304.0100
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3733
abstract: We work out a classification scheme for quantum modeling in Hilbert space of any kind of composite entity violating Bell's inequalities and exhibiting entanglement. Our theoretical framework includes situations with entangled states and product measurements ('customary quantum situation'), and also situations with both entangled states and entangled measurements ('nonlocal box situation', 'nonlocal non-marginal box situation'). We show that entanglement is structurally a joint property of states and measurements. Furthermore, entangled measurements enable quantum modeling of situations that are usually believed to be 'beyond quantum'. Our results are also extended from pure states to quantum mixtures.

id: 1304.3759
title: Bell-CHSH function approach to quantum phase transitions in matrix product systems
authors: Zhao-Yu Sun, Hai-Lin Huang, Bo Wang
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: The European Physical Journal B June 2013, 86:279
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3759
abstract: Recently, nonlocality and Bell inequalities have been used to investigate quantum phase transitions (QPTs) in low-dimensional quantum systems. Nonlocality can be detected by the Bell-CHSH function (BCF). In this work, we extend the study of BCF to the QPTs in matrix product systems (MPSs). In this kind of QPTs, the ground-state energy keeps analytical in the vicinity of the QPT points, and is usually called the MPS-QPTs. For several typical models, our results show that BCF can signal the MPS-QPTs very well. In addition, we find BCF can capture signal of QPTs in unentangled states and classical states, for which other measures of quantum correlation (quantum entanglement and quantum discord) fail. Furthermore, we find that in these MPSs, there exists some kind of quantum correlation which cannot be characterized by entanglement, or by nonlocality.

id: 1304.3761
title: Excitation of a single atom with exponentially rising light pulses
authors: Syed Abdullah Aljunid, Gleb Maslennikov, Yimin Wang, Dao Hoang Lan, Valerio Scarani, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 103001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3761
abstract: We investigate the interaction between a single atom and optical pulses in a coherent state with a controlled temporal envelope. In a comparison between a rising exponential and a square envelope, we show that the rising exponential envelope leads to a higher excitation probability for fixed low average photon numbers, in accordance to a time-reversed Weisskopf-Wigner model. We characterize the atomic transition dynamics for a wide range of the average photon numbers, and are able to saturate the optical transition of a single atom with ~50 photons in a pulse by a strong focusing technique. For photon numbers of ~1000 in a 15ns long pulse, we clearly observe Rabi oscillations.

id: 1304.3864
title: Reply to "Comment on 'Witnessed entanglement and the geometric measure of quantum discord' "
authors: Tiago Debarba, Thiago O. Maciel, Reinaldo O. Vianna
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3864
abstract: We show that the mistakes pointed out by Rana and Parashar [Phys. Rev. A 87, 016301 (2013)] do not invalidate the main conclusion of our work [Phys. Rev. A 86, 024302 (2012)]. We show that the errors affected only a particular application of our general results, and present the correction.

id: 1304.3901
title: Quantum limits on probabilistic amplifiers
authors: Shashank Pandey, Zhang Jiang, Joshua Combes, Carlton M. Caves
comments: V1: 20 pages, 8 figures. V2: 24 pages, 9 figures, and significantly revised text. V3 published version (minor changes)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033852 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3901
abstract: An ideal phase-preserving linear amplifier is a deterministic device that adds to an input signal the minimal amount of noise consistent with the constraints imposed by quantum mechanics. A noiseless linear amplifier takes an input coherent state to an amplified coherent state, but only works part of the time. Such a device is actually better than noiseless, since the output has less noise than the amplified noise of the input coherent state; for this reason we refer to such devices as {\em immaculate}. Here we bound the working probabilities of probabilistic and approximate immaculate amplifiers and construct theoretical models that achieve some of these bounds. Our chief conclusions are the following: (i) the working probability of any phase-insensitive immaculate amplifier is very small in the phase-plane region where the device works with high fidelity; (ii) phase-sensitive immaculate amplifiers that work only on coherent states sparsely distributed on a phase-plane circle centered at the origin can have a reasonably high working probability.

id: 1304.3914
title: Quantum Discord of an Arbitrary State of Two Qubits
authors: S. Javad Akhtarshenas, Hamidreza Mohammadi, Fahimeh S. Mousavi, Vahid Nassajpour
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3914
abstract: Calculation of the quantum discord requires to find the minimum of the quantum conditional entropy $S(\rho^{AB}|\{\Pi^B_{k}\})$ over all measurements on the subsystem $B$. In this paper, we provide a simple relation for the conditional entropy as the difference of two Shannon entropies. The relation is suitable for calculation of the quantum discord in the sense that it can by used to obtain the quantum discord for some classes of two-qubit states, without the need for minimization. We also present an analytical procedure of optimization and obtain conditions under which the quantum conditional entropy of a general two-qubit state is stationary. The presented relation is also used to find a tight upper bound on the quantum discord.

id: 1304.3925
title: Long-range entanglement is necessary for a topological storage of quantum information
authors: Isaac H. Kim
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, minor changes. For more details, see the first version. After submitting this work to the journal, I have found a related work by T. Osborne; see arXiv:0806.2962
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 080503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3925
abstract: A general inequality between entanglement entropy and a number of topologically ordered states is derived, even without using the properties of the parent Hamiltonian or the formalism of topological quantum field theory. Given a quantum state $\ket{\psi}$, we obtain an upper bound on the number of distinct states that are locally indistinguishable from $\ket{\psi}$. The upper bound is determined only by the entanglement entropy of some local subsystems. As an example, we show that $\log N \leq 2\gamma$ for a large class of topologically ordered systems on a torus, where $N$ is the number of topologically protected states and $\gamma$ is the constant subcorrection term of the entanglement entropy. We discuss applications to quantum many-body systems that do not have any low-energy topological quantum field theory description, as well as tradeoff bounds for general quantum error correcting codes.

id: 1304.3967
title: Phonon-induced dynamic resonance energy transfer
authors: James Lim, Mark Tame, Ki Hyuk Yee, Joong-Sung Lee, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 053018 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3967
abstract: In a network of interacting quantum systems achieving fast coherent energy transfer is a challenging task. While quantum systems are susceptible to a wide range of environmental factors, in many physical settings their interactions with quantized vibrations, or phonons, of a supporting structure are the most prevalent. This leads to noise and decoherence in the network, ultimately impacting the energy-transfer process. In this work, we introduce a novel type of coherent energy-transfer mechanism for quantum systems, where phonon interactions are able to actually enhance the energy transfer. Here, a shared phonon interacts with the systems and dynamically adjusts their resonances, providing remarkable directionality combined with quantum speed- up. We call this mechanism phonon-induced dynamic resonance energy transfer and show that it enables long-range coherent energy transport even in highly disordered systems.

id: 1304.3979
title: Solving two-mode squeezed harmonic oscillator and $k$th-order harmonic generation in Bargmann-Hilbert spaces
authors: Yao-Zhong Zhang
comments: LaTex 13 pages, version to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 455302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3979
abstract: We analyze the two-mode squeezed harmonic oscillator and the $k$th-order harmonic generation within the framework of Bargmann-Hilbert spaces of entire functions. For the displaced, single-mode squeezed and two-mode squeezed harmonic oscillators, we derive the exact, closed-form expressions for their energies and wave functions. For the $k$th-order harmonic generation with $k\geq 3$, our result indicates that it does not have eigenfunctions and is thus ill-defined in the Bargmann-Hilbert space.

id: 1304.3982
title: On the solvability of the quantum Rabi model and its 2-photon and two-mode generalizations
authors: Yao-Zhong Zhang
comments: LaTex 16 pages. Some modifications and addition of references. Version to appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 102104 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3982
abstract: We study the solvability of the time-independent matrix Schr\"odinger differential equations of the quantum Rabi model and its 2-photon and two-mode generalizations in Bargmann Hilbert spaces of entire functions. We show that the Rabi model and its 2-photon and two-mode analogs are quasi-exactly solvable. We derive the exact, closed-form expressions for the energies and the allowed model parameters for all the three cases in the solvable subspaces. Up to a normalization factor, the eigenfunctions for these models are given by polynomials whose roots are determined by systems of algebraic equations.

id: 1304.4016
title: Robust quantum control by shaped pulse
authors: D. Daems, A. Ruschhaupt, D. Sugny, S. Guerin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4016
abstract: Considering the problem of the control of a two-state quantum system by an external field, we establish a general and versatile method that allows the derivation of smooth pulses, suitable for ultrafast applications, that feature the properties of high-fidelity, robustness, and low area. Such shaped pulses can be viewed as a single-shot generalization of the composite pulse technique with a time-dependent phase.

id: 1304.4017
title: Momentum relation and classical limit in the future-not-included complex action theory
authors: Keiichi Nagao, Holger Bech Nielsen
comments: Latex 27 pages, 2 figures, typos corrected, the final version to appear in Prog.Theor.Exp.Phys. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1205.3706
journal: Prog. Theor. Exp. Phys. (2013) 073A03
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4017
abstract: Studying the time development of the expectation value in the future-not-included complex action theory, we point out that the momentum relation (the relation analogous to $p=\frac{\partial L}{\partial \dot{q}}$), which was derived via the Feynman path integral and was shown to be correct in the future-included theory in our previous papers, is not valid in the future-not-included theory. We provide the correct momentum relation in the future-not-included theory, and argue that the future-not-included classical theory is described by a certain real action. In addition, we provide another way to understand the time development of the future-not-included theory by utilizing the future-included theory. Furthermore, properly applying the method used in our previous paper to the future-not-included theory by introducing a formal Lagrangian, we derive the correct momentum relation in the future-not-included theory.

id: 1304.4048
title: Secure Optical Networks Based on Quantum Key Distribution and Weakly Trusted Repeaters
authors: David Elkouss, Jesus Martinez-Mateo, Alex Ciurana, Vicente Martin
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: Journal of Optical Communications and Networking 5 (2013) 316-328
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4048
abstract: In this paper we explore how recent technologies can improve the security of optical networks. In particular, we study how to use quantum key distribution (QKD) in common optical network infrastructures and propose a method to overcome its distance limitations. QKD is the first technology offering information theoretic secret-key distribution that relies only on the fundamental principles of quantum physics. Point-to-point QKD devices have reached a mature industrial state; however, these devices are severely limited in distance, since signals at the quantum level (e.g. single photons) are highly affected by the losses in the communication channel and intermediate devices. To overcome this limitation, intermediate nodes (i.e. repeaters) are used. Both, quantum-regime and trusted, classical, repeaters have been proposed in the QKD literature, but only the latter can be implemented in practice. As a novelty, we propose here a new QKD network model based on the use of not fully trusted intermediate nodes, referred as weakly trusted repeaters. This approach forces the attacker to simultaneously break several paths to get access to the exchanged key, thus improving significantly the security of the network. We formalize the model using network codes and provide real scenarios that allow users to exchange secure keys over metropolitan optical networks using only passive components. Moreover, the theoretical framework allows to extend these scenarios not only to accommodate more complex trust constraints, but also to consider robustness and resiliency constraints on the network.

id: 1304.4059
title: Two-mode back-action-evading measurements in cavity optomechanics
authors: M. J. Woolley, A. A. Clerk
comments: 28 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063846 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4059
abstract: We study theoretically a three-mode optomechanical system where two mechanical oscillators are coupled to a single cavity mode. By using two-tone (i.e. amplitude-modulated) driving of the cavity, it is possible to couple the cavity to a single collective quadrature of the mechanical oscillators. In such a way, a back-action-evading measurement of the collective mechanical quadrature is possible. We discuss how this can allow one to measure both quadratures of a mechanical force beyond the full quantum limit, paying close attention to the role of dissipation and experimental imperfections. We also describe how this scheme allows one to generate steady-state mechanical entanglement; namely, one can conditionally prepare an entangled, two-mode squeezed mechanical state. This entanglement can be verified directly from the measurement record by applying a generalized version of Duan's inequality; we also discuss how feedback can be used to produce unconditional entanglement.

id: 1304.4065
title: Deterministic Many-Resonator W Entanglement of Nearly Arbitrary Microwave States via Attractive Bose-Hubbard Simulation
authors: A. A. Gangat, I. P. McCulloch, G. J. Milburn
comments: 11 pages (2 columns), 8 figures. Reworking and improvement of the core idea in arXiv:1211:4302 (unpublished) toward a different emphasis. v2: new title and introduction. Revised abstract. More realistic analysis of experimental constraints. New simulations with damping. Revised text and figures. v3: expanded introduction, minor changes/corrections, new simulations with disorder. v4: as published
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 031009 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4065
abstract: Multipartite entanglement of large numbers of physically distinct linear resonators is of both fundamental and applied interest, but there have been no feasible proposals to date for achieving it. At the same time, the Bose-Hubbard model with attractive interactions (ABH) is theoretically known to have a phase transition from the superfluid phase to a highly entangled nonlocal superposition, but observation of this phase transition has remained out of experimental reach. In this theoretical work, we jointly address these two problems by (1) proposing an experimentally accessible quantum simulation of the ABH phase transition in an array of tunably coupled superconducting circuit microwave resonators and (2) incorporating the simulation into a highly scalable protocol that takes as input any microwave resonator state with negligible occupation of number states |0> and |1> and nonlocally superposes it across the whole array of resonators. The large-scale multipartite entanglement produced by the protocol is of the W-type, which is well-known for its robustness. The protocol utilizes the ABH phase transition to generate the multipartite entanglement of all of the resonators in parallel, and is therefore deterministic and permits an increase in resonator number without increase in protocol complexity; the number of resonators is limited instead by system characteristics such as resonator frequency disorder and inter-resonator coupling strength. Only one local and two global controls are required for the protocol. We numerically demonstrate the protocol with realistic system parameters, and estimate that current experimental capabilities can realize the protocol with high fidelity for greater than 40 resonators.

id: 1304.4069
title: Integer Arithmetic With Hybrid Quantum-Classical Circuits
authors: Christopher M. Maynard, Einar Pius
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4069
abstract: Quantum circuits which perform integer arithmetic could potentially outperform their classical counterparts. In this paper, a quantum circuit is considered which performs a specific computational pattern on classically represented integers to accelerate the computation. Such a hybrid circuit could be embedded in a conventional computer architecture as a quantum device or accelerator. In particular, a quantum multiply-add circuit (QMAC) using a Quantum Fourier Transform (QFT) is proposed which can perform the calculation on conventional integers faster than its conventional counterpart. Whereas classically applying a multiply-adder (MAC) $n$ times to $k$ bit integers would require $O(n \log k)$ parallel steps, the hybrid QMAC needs only $O(n + k)$ steps for the exact result and $O(n + \log k)$ steps for an approximate result.

id: 1304.4081
title: Test of mutually unbiased bases for six-dimensional photonic quantum systems
authors: Vincenzo D'Ambrosio, Filippo Cardano, Ebrahim Karimi, Eleonora Nagali, Enrico Santamato, Lorenzo Marrucci, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4081
abstract: In quantum information, complementarity of quantum mechanical observables plays a key role. If a system resides in an eigenstate of an observable, the probability distribution for the values of a complementary observable is flat. The eigenstates of these two observables form a pair of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs). More generally, a set of MUBs consists of bases that are all pairwise unbiased. Except for specific dimensions of the Hilbert space, the maximal sets of MUBs are unknown in general. Even for a dimension as low as six, the identification of a maximal set of MUBs remains an open problem, although there is strong numerical evidence that no more than three simultaneous MUBs do exist. Here, by exploiting a newly developed holographic technique, we implement and test different sets of three MUBs for a single photon six-dimensional quantum state (a qusix), encoded either in a hybrid polarization-orbital angular momentum or a pure orbital angular momentum Hilbert space. A close agreement is observed between theory and experiments. Our results can find applications in state tomography, quantitative wave-particle duality, quantum key distribution and tests on complementarity and logical indeterminacy.

id: 1304.4083
title: Interference mechanism of seemingly superluminal tunnelling
authors: D. Sokolovski, E. Akhmatskaya
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4083
abstract: Apparently 'superluminal' transmission, e.g., in quantum tunnelling and its variants, occurs via a subtle interference mechanism which allows reconstruction of the entire spacial shape of a wave packet from its front tail. It is unlikely that the effect could be described adequately in simpler terms.

id: 1304.4143
title: Chemical compass model for avian magnetoreception as a quantum coherent device
authors: Jianming Cai, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 6 pages, published version, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 230503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4143
abstract: It is known that more than 50 species use the Earth's magnetic field for orientation and navigation. Intensive studies particularly behavior experiments with birds, provide support for a chemical compass based on magnetically sensitive free radical reactions as a source of this sense. However, the fundamental question of how quantum coherence plays an essential role in such a chemical compass model of avian magnetoreception yet remains controversial. Here, we show that the essence of the chemical compass model can be understood in analogy to a quantum interferometer exploiting global quantum coherence rather than any subsystem coherence. Within the framework of quantum metrology, we quantify global quantum coherence and correlate it with the function of chemical magnetoreception. Our results allow us to understand and predict how various factors can affect the performance of a chemical compass from the unique perspective of quantum coherence assisted metrology. This represents a crucial step to affirm a direct connection between quantum coherence and the function of a chemical compass.

id: 1304.4167
title: Intrinsic periodicity: the forgotten lesson of quantum mechanics
authors: Donatello Dolce
comments: 10 pages. Peer-reviewed and accepted for publication in J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. (2013). Talk given at DICE2012, Castiglioncello, Italy. Comments are welcome
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 442 (2013) 012048
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4167
abstract: Wave-particle duality, together with the concept of elementary particles, was introduced by de Broglie in terms of intrinsically "periodic phenomena". However, after nearly 90 years, the physical origin of such undulatory mechanics remains unrevealed. We propose a natural realization of the de Broglie "periodic phenomenon" in terms of harmonic vibrational modes associated to space-time periodicities. In this way we find that, similarly to a vibrating string or a particle in a box, the intrinsic recurrence imposed as a constraint to elementary particles represents a fully consistent quantization condition. The resulting classical cyclic dynamics formally match ordinary relativistic Quantum Mechanics in both the canonical and Feynman formulations. Interactions are introduced in a geometrodynamical way, similarly to general relativity, by simply considering that variations of kinematical state can be equivalently described in terms of modulations of space-time recurrences, as known from undulatory mechanics. We present this novel quantization prescription from a historical prospective.

id: 1304.4206
title: Inefficiency of classically simulating linear optical quantum computing with Fock-state inputs
authors: Bryan T. Gard, Jonathan P. Olson, Robert M. Cross, Moochan B. Kim, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure Published in PRA Phys. Rev. A 89, 022328 (2014)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022328 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4206
abstract: Aaronson and Arkhipov recently used computational complexity theory to argue that classical computers very likely cannot efficiently simulate linear, multimode, quantum-optical interferometers with arbitrary Fock-state inputs [Aaronson and Arkhipov, Theory Comput. 9, 143 (2013)]. Here we present an elementary argument that utilizes only techniques from quantum optics. We explicitly construct the Hilbert space for such an interferometer and show that its dimension scales exponentially with all the physical resources. We also show in a simple example just how the Schr\"odinger and Heisenberg pictures of quantum theory, while mathematically equivalent, are not in general computationally equivalent. Finally, we conclude our argument by comparing the symmetry requirements of multiparticle bosonic to fermionic interferometers and, using simple physical reasoning, connect the nonsimulatability of the bosonic device to the complexity of computing the permanent of a large matrix.

id: 1304.4208
title: On Chip Manipulation of Single Photons from a Diamond Defect
authors: J. E. Kennard, J. P. Hadden, L. Marseglia, I. Aharonovich, S. Castelletto, B. R. Patton, A. Politi, J. C. F. Matthews, A. G. Sinclair, B. C. Gibson, S. Prawer, J. G. Rarity, J. L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 213603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4208
abstract: Operating reconfigurable quantum circuits with single photon sources is a key goal of photonic quantum information science and technology. We use an integrated waveguide device comprising of directional couplers and a reconfigurable thermal phase controller to manipulate single photons emitted from a chromium related colour centre in diamond. Observation of both a wave-like interference pattern and particle-like sub-Poissionian autocorrelation functions demonstrates coherent manipulation of single photons emitted from the chromium related centre and verifies wave particle duality.

id: 1304.4270
title: Steady-State Entanglement by Engineered Quasi-Local Markovian Dissipation
authors: Francesco Ticozzi, Lorenza Viola
comments: 18 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 14 (3-4), 0265-0294, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4270
abstract: We characterize and construct time-independent Markovian dynamics that drive a finite-dimensional multipartite quantum system into a target (pure) entangled steady state, subject to physical locality constraints. In situations where the desired stabilization task can not be attained solely based on local dissipative means, we allow for local Hamiltonian control or, if the latter is not an option, we suitably restrict the set of admissible initial states. In both cases, we provide algorithms for constructing a master equation that achieves the intended objective and show how this can genuinely extend the manifold of stabilizable states. In particular, we present quasi-local control protocols for dissipatively engineering multipartite GHZ "cat" states and W states on $n$ qubits. For GHZ states, we find that no scalable procedure exists for achieving stabilization from arbitrary initial states, whereas this is possible for a target W state by a suitable combination of a two-body Hamiltonian and dissipators. Interestingly, for both entanglement classes, we show that quasi-local stabilization may be scalably achieved conditional to initialization of the system in a large, appropriately chosen subspace.

id: 1304.4323
title: Ramsey spectroscopy with squeezed light
authors: Kenan Qu, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 38, Issue 14, pp. 2563-2565 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4323
abstract: Traditional Ramsey spectroscopy has the frequency resolution $2\pi/T$, where $T$ is the time separation between two light fields. Using squeezed states and two-atom excitation joint detection, we present a new scheme achieving a higher resolution $\pi/T$. We use two mode squeezed light which exhibits strong entanglement.

id: 1304.4382
title: Stark-chirped rapid adiabatic passage in the presence of dissipation for quantum computation
authors: X. Shi, C. H. Oh, L. F. Wei
comments: 
journal: Commun.Theor.Phys. 61 (2014) 235-240
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4382
abstract: Stark-chirped rapid adiabatic passage (SCRAP) is an important technique used for coherent quantum controls. In this paper we investigate how the practically-existing dissipation of the system influences on the efficiency of the passage, and thus the fidelities of the SCRAP-based quantum gates. With flux-biased Josephson qubits as a specifical example, our results show clearly that the efficiency of the logic gates implemented by SCRAP are robust against the weak dissipation. The influence due to the non-adiabtic transitions between the adiabatic passages is comparatively significantly small. Therefore, the SCRAP-based logic gates should be feasible for the realistic physical systems with noises.

id: 1304.4412
title: On the dynamics of a particle on a cone
authors: K. Kowalski, J. Rembieli¨½ski
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 329 (2013) 146-157
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4412
abstract: A detailed study of the classical and quantum mechanics of a free particle on a double cone and the particle bounded to its tip by the harmonic oscillator potential is presented.

id: 1304.4425
title: Nonexistence of Quantum Nonlocality
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4425
abstract: What violations of Bell inequalities teach us is that the world is quantum mechanical, i.e., nonclassical. Assertions that they imply the world is nonlocal arise from ignoring differences between quantum and classical physics.

id: 1304.4456
title: Three orders of magnitude cavity-linewidth narrowing by slow light in a rare-earth-ion-doped crystal cavity
authors: Mahmood Sabooni, Qian Li, Lars Rippe, Stefan Kr?ll
comments: You can find the updated version at 1311.2301v1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4456
abstract: Three orders of magnitude cavity-linewidth narrowing in a rare-earth-ion-doped crystal cavity, induced by strong intra-cavity dispersion caused by off-resonant interaction with dopant ions is demonstrated. The strong dispersion is created by semi-permanent but rapidly reprogrammable changes of the rare earth absorption profiles using optical pumping techniques. Several cavity modes are shown within the spectral transmission window. Potential applications are discussed.

id: 1304.4466
title: Dark Entangled Steady States of Interacting Rydberg Atoms
authors: D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 4 Pages, 3 figures + Supplementary Information [Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 033606]
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 033606 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4466
abstract: We propose a scheme for rapid generation of high fidelity steady state entanglement between a pair of atoms. A two-photon excitation process towards long-lived Rydberg states with finite pairwise interaction, a dark state interference effect in the individual atoms, and spontaneous emission from their short-lived excited states lead to rapid, dissipative formation of an entangled steady state. We show that for a wide range of physical parameters, this entangled state is formed on a time scale given by the strengths of coherent Raman and Rabi fields applied to the atoms, while it is only weakly dependent on the Rydberg interaction strength.

id: 1304.4477
title: Quantum Secret Sharing with Continuous Variable Graph State
authors: Yadong Wu, Runze Cai, Guangqiang He, Jun Zhang
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4477
abstract: In this paper we study the protocol implementation and property analysis for several practical quantum secret sharing (QSS) schemes with continuous variable graph state (CVGS). For each QSS scheme, an implementation protocol is designed according to its secret and communication channel types. The estimation error is derived explicitly, which facilitates the unbiased estimation and error variance minimization. It turns out that only under infinite squeezing can the secret be perfectly reconstructed. Furthermore, we derive the condition for QSS threshold protocol on a weighted CVGS. Under certain conditions, the perfect reconstruction of the secret for two non-cooperative groups is exclusive, i.e. if one group gets the secret perfectly, the other group cannot get any information about the secret.

id: 1304.4492
title: Pauli channel tomography with unknown channel directions
authors: D¨¢niel Virosztek, L¨¢szl¨® Ruppert, Katalin M. Hangos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4492
abstract: In this paper we estimate the parameters of the qubit Pauli channel using the channel matrix formalism. The main novelty of this work is that we do not assume the directions of the Pauli channel to be known, but they are determined through the tomography process, too. The results show that for optimally estimating the contraction parameters and the channel matrix we should have input qubits and measurements in the channel directions. However, for optimally estimating the channel directions, we should use different tomography conditions.

id: 1304.4504
title: Experimental multi-location remote state preparation
authors: Magnus Radmark, Marcin Wiesniak, Marek Zukowski, Mohamed Bourennane
comments: 4,5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4504
abstract: Transmission of quantum states is a central task in quantum information science. Remote state preparation (RSP) has the same goal as teleportation, i.e. transferring quantum information without sending physically the information carrier, but in RSP the sender knows the state which is to be transmitted. We present experimental demonstrations of RSP for two and three locations. In our experimental scheme Alice (the preparer) and her three partners share four and six photon polarization entangled singlets. This allows us to perform RSP of two or three copies of a single qubit states, a two qubit Bell state, and a three qubit W, or inverse W state. A possibility to prepare a two-qubit non-maximally entangled and GHZ states is also discussed. The ability to remotely prepare an entangled states by local projections at Alice is a distinguishing feature of our scheme.

id: 1304.4506
title: Optimal lower bound of quantum uncertainty from extractable classical information
authors: T. Pramanik, S. Mal, A. S. Majumdar
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4506
abstract: The sum of entropic uncertainties for the measurement of two non-commuting observables is not always reduced by the amount of entanglement (quantum memory) between two parties, and in certain cases may be impacted by quantum correlations beyond entanglement (discord). An optimal lower bound of entropic uncertainty in the presence of any correlations may be determined by fine-graining. Here we derive a new uncertainty relation where the maximum possible reduction of uncertainty is shown to be given by the extractable classical information. We show that the lower bound of uncertainty matches with that using fine-graining for several examples of two-qubit pure and mixed entangled states, and also separable states with non-vanishing discord. Using our uncertainty relation we further show that even in the absence of any quantum correlations between the two parties, the sum of uncertainties may be reduced with the help of classical correlations.

id: 1304.4512
title: Experimental Test of the Quantum Violation of the Noncontextuality Inequalities for the n-Cycle Scenario
authors: Gilberto Borges, Marcos Carvalho, Pierre-Louis de Assis, Jos¨¦ Ferraz, Mateus Ara¨²jo, Ad¨¢n Cabello, Marcelo Terra Cunha, Sebasti?o P¨¢dua
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052106 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4512
abstract: The inequalities that separate contextual from noncontextual correlations for the n-cycle scenario (consisting of n dichotomic observables Oj, with j = 0, ..., n-1 and such that Oj and Oj+1 are jointly measurable) have been recently identified [arXiv:1206.3212 (2012)]. Here we report the results of an experiment designed to reach the maximum quantum violation of these inequalities for any even number of observables ranging from 4 to 14. The four dimensional Hilbert space required for the test was spanned by two photonic qubits encoded in the transversal path of photon pairs, and the joint measurability of the observables is guaranteed by measuring correlations between observables from different modes. Our results show contextual correlations as predicted by quantum mechanics.

id: 1304.4544
title: Superintegrable quantum oscillator and Kepler-Coulomb systems on curved spaces
authors: Angel Ballesteros, Alberto Enciso, Francisco J. Herranz, Orlando Ragnisco, Danilo Riglioni
comments: 6 pages. Based on the contribution presented at "The XXIX International Colloquium on Group-Theoretical Methods in Physics", August 20-26, 2012, Chern Institute of Mathematics, Tianjin, China. Nankai Series in Pure, Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics, Chengming Bai, Jean-Pierre Gazeau and Mo-Lin Ge (eds.), World Scientific: Singapore, 2013, to appear
journal: Nankai Series Pure, Appl. Math. Theor. Phys. 11 (2013) 211-216
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4544
abstract: An overview of maximally superintegrable classical Hamitonians on spherically symmetric spaces is presented. It turns out that each of these systems can be considered either as an oscillator or as a Kepler-Coulomb Hamiltonian. We show that two possible quantization prescriptions for all these curved systems arise if we impose that superintegrability is preserved after quantization, and we prove that both possibilities are gauge equivalent.

id: 1304.4574
title: Collectively-enhanced optomechanical coupling in periodic arrays of scatterers
authors: Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Claudiu Genes, Aur¨¦lien Dantan
comments: 14 pages, 14 figures, comments welcome. This is an expanded version of arXiv:1202.6210 with added interpretation and analysis
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053803 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4574
abstract: We investigate the optomechanical properties of a periodic array of identical scatterers placed inside an optical cavity and extend the results of [A. Xuereb, C. Genes, and A. Dantan, Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 223601 (2012)]. We show that operating at the points where the array is transmissive results in linear optomechanical coupling strengths between the cavity field and collective motional modes of the array that may be several orders of magnitude larger than is possible with an equivalent reflective ensemble. We describe and interpret these effects in detail and investigate the nature of the scaling laws of the coupling strengths for the different transmissive points in various regimes.

id: 1304.4595
title: Quantum annealing with more than one hundred qubits
authors: Sergio Boixo, Troels F. R?nnow, Sergei V. Isakov, Zhihui Wang, David Wecker, Daniel A. Lidar, John M. Martinis, Matthias Troyer
comments: 23 pages, 38 figures. Revised version. Text rewritten for clarity, added comparison with spin dynamics model
journal: Nature Phys. 10, 218 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4595
abstract: Quantum technology is maturing to the point where quantum devices, such as quantum communication systems, quantum random number generators and quantum simulators, may be built with capabilities exceeding classical computers. A quantum annealer, in particular, solves hard optimisation problems by evolving a known initial configuration at non-zero temperature towards the ground state of a Hamiltonian encoding a given problem. Here, we present results from experiments on a 108 qubit D-Wave One device based on superconducting flux qubits. The strong correlations between the device and a simulated quantum annealer, in contrast with weak correlations between the device and classical annealing or classical spin dynamics, demonstrate that the device performs quantum annealing. We find additional evidence for quantum annealing in the form of small-gap avoided level crossings characterizing the hard problems. To assess the computational power of the device we compare it to optimised classical algorithms.

id: 1304.4607
title: Sending classical information through relativistic quantum channels
authors: Andre G. S. Landulfo, Adriano C. Torres
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4607
abstract: We investigate how special relativity influences the transmission of classical information through quantum channels by evaluating the Holevo bound when the sender and the receiver are in (relativistic) relative motion. By using the spin degrees of freedom of spin-1/2 fermions to encode the classical information we show that, for some configurations, the accessible information in the receiver can be increased when the spin detector moves fast enough. This is possible by allowing the momentum wave packet of one of the particles to be wide enough while the momentum wave packets of other particles are kept relatively narrow. In this way, one can take advantage of the fact that boosts entangle the spin and momentum degrees of freedom of spin-1/2 fermions to increase the accessible information in the former. We close the paper with a discussion of how this relativistic quantum channel cannot in general be described by completely positive quantum maps.

id: 1304.4608
title: Modulated Electromechanics: Large Enhancements of Nonlinearities
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, Kurt Jacobs, Franco Nori, Raymond W. Simmonds
comments: 5 pages, revtex4-1, 1 png figure
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 072001 (2014) (Fast Track Communication)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4608
abstract: It is well-known that the nonlinear coupling between a mechanical oscillator and a superconducting oscillator or optical cavity can be used to generate a Kerr-nonlinearity for the cavity mode. We show that the strength of this Kerr-nonlinearity, as well as the effect of the photon-pressure force can be enormously increased by modulating the strength of the nonlinear coupling. We present an electromechanical circuit in which this enhancement can be readily realized.

id: 1304.4615
title: Superfluid qubit systems with ring shaped optical lattices
authors: Luigi Amico, Davit Aghamalyan, H. Crepaz, F. Auksztol, R. Dumke, L.-C. Kwek
comments: 14 revtex4-1 pages, 7 figs; to be published in Scientific Reports
journal: Scientific Reports vol. 4, 4298 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4615
abstract: We study an experimentally feasible qubit system employing neutral atomic currents. Our system is based on bosonic cold atoms trapped in ring-shaped optical lattice potentials. The lattice makes the system strictly one dimensional and it provides the infrastructure to realize a tunable ring-ring interaction. Our implementation combines the low decoherence rates of of neutral cold atoms systems, overcoming single site addressing, with the robustness of topologically protected solid state Josephson flux qubits. Characteristic fluctuations in the magnetic fields affecting Josephson junction based flux qubits are expected to be minimized employing neutral atoms as flux carriers. By breaking the Galilean invariance we demonstrate how atomic currents through the lattice provide a implementation of a qubit. This is realized either by artificially creating a phase slip in a single ring, or by tunnel coupling of two homogeneous ring lattices. The single qubit infrastructure is experimentally investigated with tailored optical potentials. Indeed, we have experimentally realized scaled ring-lattice potentials that could host, in principle, $n\sim 10$ of such ring-qubits, arranged in a stack configuration, along the laser beam propagation axis. An experimentally viable scheme of the two-ring-qubit is discussed, as well. Based on our analysis, we provide protocols to initialize, address, and read-out the qubit.

id: 1304.4642
title: Easy and hard functions for the Boolean hidden shift problem
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Robin Kothari, Maris Ozols, Martin Roetteler
comments: 29 pages, 2 figures
journal: Proceedings of TQC 2013, LIPIcs, vol. 22, pp. 50-79, ISBN 978-3-939897-55-2 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Learning (cs.LG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4642
abstract: We study the quantum query complexity of the Boolean hidden shift problem. Given oracle access to f(x+s) for a known Boolean function f, the task is to determine the n-bit string s. The quantum query complexity of this problem depends strongly on f. We demonstrate that the easiest instances of this problem correspond to bent functions, in the sense that an exact one-query algorithm exists if and only if the function is bent. We partially characterize the hardest instances, which include delta functions. Moreover, we show that the problem is easy for random functions, since two queries suffice. Our algorithm for random functions is based on performing the pretty good measurement on several copies of a certain state; its analysis relies on the Fourier transform. We also use this approach to improve the quantum rejection sampling approach to the Boolean hidden shift problem.

id: 1304.4708
title: Controllability of optical bistability, cooling and entanglement in hybrid cavity optomechanical systems by nonlinear atom-atom interaction
authors: A. Dalafi, M. H. Naderi, M. Soltanolkotabi
comments: 9 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4708
abstract: We investigate the effects of atomic collisions as well as optomechanical mirror-field coupling on the optical bistability in a hybrid system consisting of a Bose-Einstein condensate inside a driven optical cavity with a moving end mirror. It is shown that the bistability of the system can be controlled by the s-wave scattering frequency which can provide the possibility of realizing a controllable optical switch. On the other hand, by studying the effect of the Bogoliubov mode, as a secondary mechanical mode relative to the mirror vibrations, on the cooling process as well as the bipartite mirror-field and atom-field entanglements we find an interpretation for the cooling of the Bogoliubov mode. The advantage of this hybrid system in comparison to the bare optomecanical cavity with a two-mode moving mirror is the controllability of the frequency of the secondary mode through the s-wave scattering interaction.

id: 1304.4709
title: Detecting and polarizing nuclear spins with double resonance on a single electron spin
authors: P. London, J. Scheuer, J.-M. Cai, I. Schwarz, A. Retzker, M.B. Plenio, M. Katagiri, T. Teraji, S. Koizumi, J. Isoya, R. Fischer, L. P. McGuinness, B. Naydenov, F. Jelezko
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 067601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4709
abstract: We report the detection and polarization of nuclear spins in diamond at room temperature by using a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center. We use Hartmann-Hahn double resonance to coherently enhance the signal from a single nuclear spin while decoupling from the noisy spin-bath, which otherwise limits the detection sensitivity. As a proof-of-principle we: (I) observe coherent oscillations between the NV center and a weakly coupled nuclear spin, (II) demonstrate nuclear bath cooling which prolongs the coherence time of the NV sensor by more than a factor of five. Our results provide a route to nanometer scale magnetic resonance imaging, and novel quantum information processing protocols.

id: 1304.4710
title: Quantum information processing with trapped electrons and superconducting electronics
authors: Nikos Daniilidis, Dylan J Gorman, Lin Tian, Hartmut H?ffner
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 073017 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4710
abstract: We describe a parametric frequency conversion scheme for trapped charged particles which enables a coherent interface between atomic and solid-state quantum systems. The scheme uses geometric non-linearities of the potential of a coupling electrode near a trapped particle. Our scheme does not rely on actively driven solid-state devices, and is hence largely immune to noise in such devices. We present a toolbox which can be used to build electron-based quantum information processing platforms, as well as quantum interfaces between trapped electrons and superconducting electronics.

id: 1304.4745
title: A Correction of Quantum Measurement Formulation Based on Fuzzy Logic
authors: Niloofar Abbasvandi, M. J. Soleimani, A. P. Othman
comments: 11 pages, 2, figures, submitted to Annals of physics on 14th April
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4745
abstract: The Von Neumann quantum measurement theory and Zurek reformulation are based on an assumption that the quantum system, apparatus and environment obey the quantum mechanics rules. According to the Zurek theory the observers typically interact with their surrounding environments. In this article, we give a more realistic image of the quantum measurement theory; we have proposed a correction to Zurek quantum measurement theory based on the fuzzy logic and fuzzy set theory.

id: 1304.4771
title: Short Time Quantum Propagator and Bohmian Trajectories
authors: Maurice de Gosson, Basil Hiley
comments: Submitted paper
journal: Online (in slightly modified form) in Amer. J. Phys. (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4771
abstract: We begin by giving correct expressions for the short-time action; following the work of one of us and Makri--Miller. We use these estimates to derive a correct expression modulo modulo delta(t)sqr for the quantum propagator and we show that the quantum potential is negligible modulo delta(t)sqr for a point source. We finally prove that this implies that the quantum motion is classical for very short times.

id: 1304.4772
title: Derivation of a linear collision operator for the spinorial Wigner equation and its semiclassical limit
authors: Benjamin A. Stickler, Stefan Possanner
comments: submitted to PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012125 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4772
abstract: We systematically derive a linear quantum collision operator for the spinorial Wigner transport equation from the dynamics of a composite quantum system. For suitable two particle interaction potentials, the particular matrix form of the collision operator describes spin decoherence or even spin depolarization as well as relaxation towards a certain momentum distribution in the long time limit. It is demonstrated that in the semiclassical limit the spinorial Wigner equation gives rise to several semiclassical spin-transport models. As an example, we derive the Bloch equations as well as the spinorial Boltzmann equation, which in turn gives rise to spin drift-diffusion models which are increasingly used to describe spin-polarized transport in spintronic devices. The presented derivation allows to systematically incorporate Born-Markov as well as quantum corrections into these models.

id: 1304.4801
title: Any nonlocal model assuming "local parts" conflicts with relativity
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4801
abstract: It is argued that any nonlocal model producing "local parts" (i.e.: disappearance of the correlations under certain testable conditions) can be reproduced by "multisimultaneity" and therefore (because of arxiv:1304.0532) conflicts not only with quantum mechanics but also with relativity. This result means in particular that the very structure of space-time (relativity) requires influences coming from outside space-time.

id: 1304.4857
title: Quantum discord plays no distinguished role in characterization of complete positivity: Robustness of the traditional scheme
authors: Krishna Kumar Sabapathy, J. Solomon Ivan, Sibasish Ghosh, R. Simon
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Minor typos corrected. Comments before submission of the manuscript to an appropriate journal will be greatly appreciated, particularly in view of the fact that our principal result seems to run counter to the position held by a large section of the recently published literature
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4857
abstract: The traditional scheme for realizing open-system quantum dynamics takes the initial state of the system-bath composite as a simple product. Currently, however, the issue of system-bath initial correlations possibly affecting the reduced dynamics of the system has been attracting considerable interest. The influential work of Shabani and Lidar [PRL {\bf 102}, 100402 (2009)] famously related this issue to quantum discord, a concept which has in recent years occupied the centre-stage of quantum information theory and has led to several fundamental results. They suggested that reduced dynamics is completely positive if and only if the initial system-bath correlations have vanishing quantum discord. Here we show that there is, within the Shabani-Lidar framework, no scope for any distinguished role for quantum discord in respect of complete positivity of reduced dynamics. Since most applications of quantum theory to real systems rests on the traditional scheme, its robustness demonstrated here could be of far-reaching significance.

id: 1304.4904
title: Limited measurement dependence in multiple runs of a Bell test
authors: James E. Pope, Alastair Kay
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Version 2 reflects the published paper in Physical Review A, which among some minor additions/changes now includes Section V discussing the numerical approach to Bell inequalities other than CHSH
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88 (2013) 032110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4904
abstract: The assumption of free will - the ability of an experimentalist to make random choices - is central to proving the indeterminism of quantum resources, the primary tool in quantum cryptography. Relaxing the assumption in a Bell test allows violation of the usual classical threshold by correlating the random number generators used to select measurements with the devices that perform them. In this paper, we examine not only these correlations, but those across multiple runs of the experiment. This enables an explicit exposition of the optimal cheating strategy and how the correlations manifest themselves within this strategy. Similar to other recent results, we prove that there remain Bell violations for a sufficiently high, yet non-maximal degree of free will which cannot be simulated by a classical attack, regardless of how many runs of the experiment those choices are correlated over.

id: 1304.4909
title: Quantum Cherenkov Radiation and Non-contact Friction
authors: Mohammad F. Maghrebi, Ramin Golestanian, Mehran Kardar
comments: Typos and Fig. 2 corrected. Manuscript improved. References added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042509 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4909
abstract: We present a number of arguments to demonstrate that a quantum analog of Cherenkov effect occurs when two dispersive objects are in relative motion. Specifically we show that two semi-infinite plates experience friction beyond a threshold velocity which, in their center-of-mass frame, is the phase speed of light within their medium. The loss in mechanical energy is radiated away through the plates before getting fully absorbed in the form of heat. By deriving various correlation functions inside and outside the two plates, we explicitly compute the radiation, and discuss its dependence on the reference frame.

id: 1304.4923
title: A SWAP gate for qudits
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol. 12, Is. 12, pp 3625-3631, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4923
abstract: We present a quantum SWAP gate valid for quantum systems of an arbitrary dimension. The gate generalizes the CNOT implementation of the SWAP gate for qubits and keeps its most important properties, like symmetry and simplicity. We only use three copies of the same controlled qudit gate. This gate can be built with two standard higher-dimensional operations, the Quantum Fourier Transform and the d-dimensional version of the CZ gate.

id: 1304.4939
title: Real-time observation of fluctuations at the driven-dissipative Dicke phase transition
authors: Ferdinand Brennecke, Rafael Mottl, Kristian Baumann, Renate Landig, Tobias Donner, Tilman Esslinger
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, including supplementary information
journal: PNAS, 110 (29) 11763, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4939
abstract: We experimentally study the influence of dissipation on the driven Dicke quantum phase transition, realized by coupling external degrees of freedom of a Bose-Einstein condensate to the light field of a high-finesse optical cavity. The cavity provides a natural dissipation channel, which gives rise to vacuum-induced fluctuations and allows us to observe density fluctuations of the gas in real-time. We monitor the divergence of these fluctuations over two orders of magnitude while approaching the phase transition and observe a behavior which significantly deviates from that expected for a closed system. A correlation analysis of the fluctuations reveals the diverging time scale of the atomic dynamics and allows us to extract a damping rate for the external degree of freedom of the atoms. We find good agreement with our theoretical model including both dissipation via the cavity field and via the atomic field. Utilizing a dissipation channel to non-destructively gain information about a quantum many-body system provides a unique path to study the physics of driven-dissipative systems.

id: 1304.4943
title: Time-resolved double-slit experiment with entangled photons
authors: Piotr Kolenderski, Carmelo Scarcella, Kelsey D. Johnsen, Deny R. Hamel, Catherine Holloway, Lynden K. Shalm, Simone Tisa, Alberto Tosi, Kevin J. Resch, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 
journal: Sci. Rep., 4, 4685 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4943
abstract: The double-slit experiment strikingly demonstrates the wave-particle duality of quantum objects. In this famous experiment, particles pass one-by-one through a pair of slits and are detected on a distant screen. A distinct wave-like pattern emerges after many discrete particle impacts as if each particle is passing through both slits and interfering with itself. While the direct event-by-event buildup of this interference pattern has been observed for massive particles such as electrons, neutrons, atoms and molecules, it has not yet been measured for massless particles like photons. Here we present a temporally- and spatially-resolved measurement of the double-slit interference pattern using single photons. We send single photons through a birefringent double-slit apparatus and use a linear array of single-photon detectors to observe the developing interference pattern. The analysis of the buildup allows us to compare quantum mechanics and the corpuscular model, which aims to explain the mystery of single-particle interference. Finally, we send one photon from an entangled pair through our double-slit setup and show the dependence of the resulting interference pattern on the twin photon's measured state. Our results provide new insight into the dynamics of the buildup process in the double-slit experiment, and can be used as a valuable resource in quantum information applications.

id: 1304.4944
title: Inherent polarization entanglement generated from a monolithic semiconductor chip
authors: Rolf T. Horn, Piotr Kolenderski, Dongpeng Kang, Carmelo Scarcella, Adriano Della Frera, Alberto Tosi, Lukas G. Helt, Sergei V. Zhukovsky, John E. Sipe, Gregor Weihs, Amr S. Helmy, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports, 3, 2314 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4944
abstract: Creating miniature chip scale implementations of optical quantum information protocols is a dream for many in the quantum optics community. This is largely because of the promise of stability and scalability. Here we present a monolithically integratable chip architecture upon which is built a photonic device primitive called a Bragg reflection waveguide (BRW). Implemented in gallium arsenide, we show that, via the process of spontaneous parametric down conversion, the BRW is capable of directly producing polarization entangled photons without additional path difference compensation, spectral filtering or post-selection. After splitting the twin-photons immediately after they emerge from the chip, we perform a variety of correlation tests on the photon pairs and show non-classical behaviour in their polarization. Combined with the BRW's versatile architecture our results signify the BRW design as a serious contender on which to build large scale implementations of optical quantum processing devices.

id: 1304.4975
title: Coupling a small torsional oscillator to large optical angular momentum
authors: H. Shi, M. Bhattacharya
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Published in Journal of Modern Optics 60(5), 382-386 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4975
abstract: We propose a new configuration for realizing torsional optomechanics: an optically trapped windmill-shaped dielectric interacting with Laguerre-Gaussian cavity modes containing both angular and radial nodes. In contrast to existing schemes, our method can couple mechanical oscillators smaller than the optical beam waist to the in-principle unlimited orbital angular momentum that can be carried by a single photon, and thus generate substantial optomechanical interactions. Combining the advantages of small mass, large coupling, and low clamping losses, our work conceptually opens the way for the observation of quantum effects in torsional optomechanics.

id: 1304.4981
title: Might quantum-induced deviations from the Einstein equations detectably affect gravitational wave propagation?
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: To appear in Foundations of Physics
journal: Foundations of Physics 43 6 (2013) pp 707-718
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4981
abstract: A quantum measurement-like event can produce any of a number of macroscopically distinct results, with corresponding macroscopically distinct gravitational fields, from the same initial state. Hence the probabilistically evolving large-scale structure of space-time is not precisely or even always approximately described by the deterministic Einstein equations. Since the standard treatment of gravitational wave propagation assumes the validity of the Einstein equations, it is questionable whether we should expect all its predictions to be empirically verified. In particular, one might expect the stochasticity of amplified quantum indeterminacy to cause coherent gravitational wave signals to decay faster than standard predictions suggest. This need not imply that the radiated energy flux from gravitational wave sources differs from standard theoretical predictions. An underappreciated bonus of gravitational wave astronomy is that either detecting or failing to detect predicted gravitational wave signals would constrain the form of the semi-classical theory of gravity that we presently lack.

id: 1304.5007
title: Building one-time memories from isolated qubits
authors: Yi-Kai Liu
comments: 36 pages; v2: better organized, better motivated, and easier to read
journal: Proceedings of the 5th conference on Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science (ITCS 2014), pp.269-286
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5007
abstract: One-time memories (OTM's) are simple tamper-resistant cryptographic devices, which can be used to implement one-time programs, a very general form of software protection and program obfuscation. Here we investigate the possibility of building OTM's using quantum mechanical devices. It is known that OTM's cannot exist in a fully-quantum world or in a fully-classical world. Instead, we propose a new model based on "isolated qubits" -- qubits that can only be accessed using local operations and classical communication (LOCC). This model combines a quantum resource (single-qubit measurements) with a classical restriction (on communication between qubits), and can be implemented using current technologies, such as nitrogen vacancy centers in diamond. In this model, we construct OTM's that are information-theoretically secure against one-pass LOCC adversaries that use 2-outcome measurements. Our construction resembles Wiesner's old idea of quantum conjugate coding, implemented using random error-correcting codes; our proof of security uses entropy chaining to bound the supremum of a suitable empirical process. In addition, we conjecture that our random codes can be replaced by some class of efficiently-decodable codes, to get computationally-efficient OTM's that are secure against computationally-bounded LOCC adversaries. In addition, we construct data-hiding states, which allow an LOCC sender to encode an (n-O(1))-bit messsage into n qubits, such that at most half of the message can be extracted by a one-pass LOCC receiver, but the whole message can be extracted by a general quantum receiver.

id: 1304.5042
title: Resource-efficient linear-optical quantum router
authors: Karel Lemr, Karol Bartkiewicz, Anton¨ªn ?ernoch, Jan Soubusta
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062333 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5042
abstract: All-linear-optical scheme for fully featured quantum router is presented. This device directs the signal photonic qubit according to the state of one control photonic qubit. In the introduction we formulate the list of requirements imposed on a fully quantum router. Then we describe our proposal showing the exact principle of operation on a linear-optical scheme. Subsequently we provide generalization of the scheme in order to optimize the success probability by means of a tunable controlled-phase gate. At the end, we show how one can modify the device to route multiple signal qubits using the same control qubit.

id: 1304.5074
title: Role of weak measurements on states ordering and monogamy of quantum correlation
authors: Ming-Liang Hu, Heng Fan, Dong-Ping Tian
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, the final version as that published in Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 54, 62 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5074
abstract: The information-theoretic definition of quantum correlation, e.g., quantum discord, is measurement dependent. By considering the more general quantum measurements, weak measurements, which include the projective measurement as a limiting case, we show that while weak measurements can enable one to capture more quantumness of correlation in a state, it can also induce other counterintuitive quantum effects. Specifically, we show that the general measurements with different strengths can impose different orderings for quantum correlations of some states. It can also modify the monogamous character for certain classes of states as well which may diminish the usefulness of quantum correlation as a resource in some protocols. In this sense, we say that the weak measurements play a dual role in defining quantum correlation.

id: 1304.5087
title: Symmetric quantum fully homomorphic encryption with perfect security
authors: Min Liang
comments: 16 pages, the final version, Quantum information processing, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5087
abstract: Suppose some data have been encrypted, can you compute with the data without decrypting them? This problem has been studied as homomorphic encryption and blind computing. We consider this problem in the context of quantum information processing, and present the definitions of quantum homomorphic encryption (QHE) and quantum fully homomorphic encryption (QFHE). Then, based on quantum one-time pad (QOTP), we construct a symmetric QFHE scheme, where the evaluate algorithm depends on the secret key. This scheme permits any unitary transformation on any $n$-qubit state that has been encrypted. Compared with classical homomorphic encryption, the QFHE scheme has perfect security. Finally, we also construct a QOTP-based symmetric QHE scheme, where the evaluate algorithm is independent of the secret key.

id: 1304.5102
title: Collective modes in free plasmas subjected to a radiation field
authors: Bruno Vieira Ribeiro, Daniel Dourado de A. Santos, Marco A. Amato
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5102
abstract: In this study we report the effects of an external electromagnetic field on the collective properties of unmagnetized plasmas. The calculations are carried out in the semi-classical approximation, i.e., the electromagnetic field is treated classically and the electrons from a quantum mechanical viewpoint. The results show that the collective modes are damped away more smoothly and in a smaller frequency range than those reported by previous studies. An exponential-like decay of the plasmon frequencies as a function of the external field amplitude is readily observed. We successfully recreate the results of previous studies. We also find that the single photon processes has a pronounced effect on the decrease of the frequency range of modulation.

id: 1304.5133
title: Leggett-Garg Inequalities
authors: Clive Emary, Neill Lambert, Franco Nori
comments: 49 pages; 7 figs
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 77, 016001 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5133
abstract: In contrast to the spatial Bell's inequalities, which probe entanglement between spatially-separated systems, the Leggett-Garg inequalities test the correlations of a single system measured at different times. Violation of a genuine Leggett-Garg test implies either the absence of a realistic description of the system or the impossibility of measuring the system without disturbing it. Quantum mechanics violates the inequalities on both accounts and the original motivation for these inequalities was as a test for quantum coherence in macroscopic systems. The last few years has seen a number of experimental tests and violations of these inequalities in a variety of microscopic systems such as superconducting qubits, nuclear spins, and photons. In this article, we provide an introduction to the Leggett-Garg inequalities and review these latest experimental developments. We discuss important topics such as the significance of the non-invasive measurability assumption, the clumsiness loophole, and the role of weak measurements. Also covered are some recent theoretical proposals for the application of Leggett-Garg inequalities in quantum transport, quantum biology and nano-mechanical systems.

id: 1304.5134
title: Characterization of fiducial states in prime dimensions via mutually unbiased bases
authors: D. Goyeneche, R. Salazar, A. Delgado
comments: 6 pages, no figures. Published in Physica Scripta
journal: Phys. Scr. 2013 014031
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5134
abstract: In this work we present some new properties of fiducial states in prime dimensions. We parameterize fiducial operators on eigenvectors bases of displacement operators, which allows us to find a manifold $\Omega$ of hermitian operators satisfying $\mathrm{Tr}(\rho)=\mathrm{Tr}(\rho^2)=1$ for any $\rho$ in $\Omega$. This manifold contains the complete set of fiducial pure states in every prime dimension. Indeed, any quantum state $\rho\geq0$ belonging to $\Omega$ is a fiducial pure state. Also, we present an upper bound for every probability associated to mutually unbiased decomposition of fiducial states. This bound allows us to prove that every fiducial state tends to be mutually unbiased to the maximal set of mutually unbiased bases in higher prime dimensions. Finally, we show that any $\rho$ in $\Omega$ minimizes an entropic uncertainty principle related to the second order R\'enyi entropy.

id: 1304.5138
title: Photon counting by inertial and accelerated detectors
authors: Margaret Hawton
comments: to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5138
abstract: Bases of exactly localized Minkowski and Rindler states on spacelike hypersurfaces are used to describe inertial and accelerated photon counting devices. It is found that the spacetime coordinates of photons absorbed by a pair of counteraccelerating detectors in causally disconnected Rindler wedges are correlated. If a photon is absorbed by a single accelerated detector the Minkowski vacuum collapses to a state containing at least one photon and that photon can be absorbed by an inertial detector.

id: 1304.5161
title: Security of Decoy-State Protocols for General Photon-Number-Splitting Attacks
authors: Rolando D. Somma, Richard J. Hughes
comments: 9 pages and 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 062330 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5161
abstract: Decoy-state protocols provide a way to defeat photon-number splitting attacks in quantum cryptography implemented with weak coherent pulses. We point out that previous security analyses of such protocols relied on assumptions about eavesdropping attacks that considered treating each pulse equally and independently. We give an example to demonstrate that, without such assumptions, the security parameters of previous decoy-state implementations could be worse than the ones claimed. Next we consider more general photon-number splitting attacks, which correlate different pulses, and give an estimation procedure for the number of single photon signals with rigorous security statements. The impact of our result is that previous analyses of the number of times a decoy-state quantum cryptographic system can be reused before it makes a weak key must be revised.

id: 1304.5164
title: Dequantizing read-once quantum formulas
authors: Alessandro Cosentino, Robin Kothari, Adam Paetznick
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures, to appear in proceedings of TQC 2013
journal: 8th Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography (TQC 2013), Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics (LIPIcs) 22, pp. 80-92 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5164
abstract: Quantum formulas, defined by Yao [FOCS '93], are the quantum analogs of classical formulas, i.e., classical circuits in which all gates have fanout one. We show that any read-once quantum formula over a gate set that contains all single-qubit gates is equivalent to a read-once classical formula of the same size and depth over an analogous classical gate set. For example, any read-once quantum formula over Toffoli and single-qubit gates is equivalent to a read-once classical formula over Toffoli and NOT gates. We then show that the equivalence does not hold if the read-once restriction is removed. To show the power of quantum formulas without the read-once restriction, we define a new model of computation called the one-qubit model and show that it can compute all boolean functions. This model may also be of independent interest.

id: 1304.5179
title: Scattering a quantum particle on the potential step: Characteristic times for transmission and reflection
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: 16 paqes, text improved, few misprints corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5179
abstract: We present a new model of scattering a quantum particle on the potential step, which reconstructs the prehistory of the subensembles of transmitted and reflected particles by their final states. Unlike the conventional one this model predicts the existence of a transitional spatial region behind the potential step where the probability to find reflected particles is nonzero and the average velocity of transmitted particles monotonously varies between asymptotic values. For both subprocesses we define the dwell and asymptotic group times.

id: 1304.5186
title: Experimental Realization of Non-Abelian Geometric Gates
authors: A. A. Abdumalikov, J. M. Fink, K. Juliusson, M. Pechal, S. Berger, A. Wallraff, S. Filipp
comments: In press in Nature. Published online on April 17, 2013
journal: Nature 496 (2013) 482-485
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5186
abstract: The geometric aspects of quantum mechanics are underlined most prominently by the concept of geometric phases, which are acquired whenever a quantum system evolves along a closed path in Hilbert space. The geometric phase is determined only by the shape of this path and is -- in its simplest form -- a real number. However, if the system contains degenerate energy levels, matrix-valued geometric phases, termed non-abelian holonomies, can emerge. They play an important role for the creation of synthetic gauge fields in cold atomic gases and the description of non-abelian anyon statistics. Moreover, it has been proposed to exploit non-abelian holonomic gates for robust quantum computation. In contrast to abelian geometric phases, non-abelian ones have been observed only in nuclear quadrupole resonance experiments with a large number of spins and without fully characterizing the geometric process and its non-commutative nature. Here, we realize non-abelian holonomic quantum operations on a single superconducting artificial three-level atom by applying a well controlled two-tone microwave drive. Using quantum process tomography, we determine fidelities of the resulting non-commuting gates exceeding 95 %. We show that a sequence of two paths in Hilbert space traversed in different order yields inequivalent transformations, which is an evidence for the non-abelian character of the implemented holonomic quantum gates. In combination with two-qubit operations, they form a universal set of gates for holonomic quantum computation.

id: 1304.5230
title: Optomechanically Induced Transparency in the Nonlinear Quantum Regime
authors: Andreas Kronwald, Florian Marquardt
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 133601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5230
abstract: Optomechanical systems have been shown both theoretically and experimentally to exhibit an analogon to atomic electromagnetically induced transparency, with sharp transmission features that are controlled by a second laser beam. Here we investigate these effects in the regime where the fundamental nonlinear nature of the optomechanical interaction becomes important. We demonstrate that pulsed transistor-like switching of transmission still works even in this regime. We also show that optomechanically induced transparency at the second mechanical sideband could be a sensitive tool to see first indications of the nonlinear quantum nature of the optomechanical interaction even for single-photon coupling strengths significantly smaller than the cavity linewidth.

id: 1304.5261
title: EPR states and Bell correlated states in algebraic quantum field theory
authors: Yuichiro Kitajima
comments: 11 pages, to be published in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5261
abstract: A mathematical rigorous definition of EPR states has been introduced by Arens and Varadarajan for finite dimensional systems, and extended by Werner to general systems. In the present paper we follow a definition of EPR states due to Werner. Then we show that an EPR state for incommensurable pairs is Bell correlated, and that the set of EPR states for incommensurable pairs is norm dense between two strictly space-like separated regions.

id: 1304.5294
title: Finer Characterizations of Pure Bipartite Entanglement
authors: Che-Hsu Li
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5294
abstract: A new criterion necessary and sufficient for the separability of pure bipartite systems for arbitrary finite dimensions is demonstrated; and the corresponding finer quantitative measures or characterizations of entanglement (beyond mere separability or non-separability determination) are discussed. Based on this criterion, we proved that the well-known Peres-Horodecki positivity-of-partial-transform criterion is also necessary and sufficient for separability in the case of pure bipartite systems. The maximum value of entanglement, and the corresponding maximally-entangled states are also worked out in detail.

id: 1304.5308
title: Dissipation of the Rabi model beyond the rotating wave approximation: Quasi-degenerate qubit and ultra-strong coupling
authors: Shantanu Agarwal, Sayed M. Hashemi Rafsanjani, Joseph H. Eberly
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 224017 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5308
abstract: Environmental influences on the dynamics of a coupled qubit-oscillator system are studied analytically. We investigate the case of a quasi-degenerate qubit within the ultra-strong coupling regime for which the qubit frequency is much smaller than the frequency of the oscillator, and the coupling between the qubit and the oscillator is large, both of which invalidate the usually employed rotating wave approximation. In contrast to the standard quantum optics master equation, we explicitly take the qubit-oscillator coupling into account while microscopically deriving a dressed state master equation. Using the derived master equation, we discuss a spectroscopic technique which can be used to probe the dressed energy level structure of the qubit-oscillator system.

id: 1304.5318
title: Multi-mode theory of pulsed twin beams generation using a high gain fiber optical parametric amplifier
authors: Xueshi Guo, Xiaoying Li, Nannan Liu, Z. Y. Ou
comments: 37 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5318
abstract: Using the Bogoliubov transformation in multi-frequency modes to describe the evolution of the non-degenerate signal and idler twin beams, we theoretically investigate the quantum noise properties of the pulse pumped high gain fiber optical parametric amplifiers (FOPA). The results show that the noise figure of the FOPA is generally greater than the 3 dB quantum limit unless the joint spectral function is factorable and the spectrum of the input signal well matches the gain spectrum in the signal band. However, the intensity difference noise of the twin beams, which weakly depends on the joint spectral function, can be significantly less than the shot-noise limit when the temporal modes of the pump and the input signal are properly matched. Moreover, to closely resemble the real experimental condition, the quantum noise of twin beams generated from a broadband FOPA is numerically studied by taking the various kinds of experimental imperfections into account. Our study is not only useful for developing a compact fiber source of twin beams, but also helpful for understanding the quantum noise limit of a pulse pumped FOPA in the fiber communication system.

id: 1304.5322
title: Decoy-state quantum key distribution with biased basis choice
authors: Zhengchao Wei, Weilong Wang, Zhen Zhang, Ming Gao, Zhi Ma, Xiongfeng Ma
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 2453, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5322
abstract: We propose a quantum key distribution scheme that combines a biased basis choice with the decoy-state method. In this scheme, Alice sends all signal states in the $Z$ basis and decoy states in the $X$ and $Z$ basis with certain probabilities, and Bob measures received pulses with optimal basis choice. This scheme simplifies the system and reduces the random number consumption. From the simulation result taking into account of statistical fluctuations, we find that in a typical experimental setup, the proposed scheme can increase the key rate by at least 45% comparing to the standard decoy-state scheme. In the postprocessing, we also apply a rigorous method to upper bound the phase error rate of the single-photon components of signal states.

id: 1304.5375
title: On the Shape Dependence of the Tangential Casimir Force
authors: Yuliya Voronina, Petr Silaev
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5375
abstract: The normal and tangential Casimir force for the rack gear is calculated numerically in the case of ideal boundary conditions for the electromagnetic field - perfect reflection on the boundaries. The resulting tangential force appears to be essentially shape dependent. Relatively small shape variations lead to the essential changes in tangential force, whereas normal force remains almost unchanged.

id: 1304.5384
title: Quantum Popov robust stability analysis of an optical cavity containing a saturated Kerr medium
authors: Ian R. Petersen
comments: A shortened version will appear in the Proceedings of the 2013 European Control Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5384
abstract: This paper applies results on the robust stability of nonlinear quantum systems to a system consisting an optical cavity containing a saturated Kerr medium. The system is characterized by a Hamiltonian operator which contains a non-quadratic term involving a quartic function of the annihilation and creation operators. A saturated version of the Kerr nonlinearity leads to a sector bounded nonlinearity which enables a quantum small gain theorem to be applied to this system in order to analyze its stability. Also, a non-quadratic version of a quantum Popov stability criterion is presented and applied to analyze the stability of this system.

id: 1304.5413
title: A note on extremal states of composite quantum systems with fixed marginals
authors: S.Kanmani
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5413
abstract: An extremal element of the convex set of composite quantum states in $M_2\otimes M_3$, whose marginals are all normalised identities has been constructed. It is found to be a mixed state and is entangled as well.

id: 1304.5490
title: Quantum Private Information Retrieval has linear communication complexity
authors: ?min Baumeler, Anne Broadbent
comments: 8 pages, minor typos fixed, affiliation of A. B. changed, acknowledgments extended
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5490
abstract: In Private Information Retrieval (PIR), a client queries an n-bit database in order to retrieve an entry of her choice, while maintaining privacy of her query value. Chor, Goldreich, Kushilevitz, and Sudan showed that, in the information-theoretical setting, a linear amount of communication is required for classical PIR protocols (and thus that the trivial protocol is optimal). This linear lower bound was shown by Nayak to hold also in the quantum setting. Here, we extend Nayak's result by considering approximate privacy, and requiring security only against "specious" adversaries, which are, in analogy to classical honest-but-curious adversaries, the weakest reasonable quantum adversaries. We show that, even in this weakened scenario, Quantum Private Information Retrieval (QPIR) requires n qubits of communication. From this follows that Le Gall's recent QPIR protocol with sublinear communication complexity is not information-theoretically private, against the weakest reasonable cryptographic adversary.

id: 1304.5528
title: Diffraction in Time: An Exactly Solvable Model
authors: Arseni Goussev
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053621 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5528
abstract: In the recent years, mater-wave interferometry has attracted growing attention due to its unique suitability for high-precision measurements and study of fundamental aspects of quantum theory. Diffraction and interference of matter waves can be observed not only at a spatial aperture (such as a screen edge, slit, or grating), but also at a time-domain aperture (such as an absorbing barrier, or "shutter", that is being periodically switched on and off). The wave phenomenon of the latter type is commonly referred to as "diffraction in time". Here, we introduce a versatile, exactly solvable model of diffraction in time. It describes time-evolution of an arbitrary initial quantum state in the presence of a time-dependent absorbing barrier, governed by an arbitrary aperture function. Our results enable a quantitative description of diffraction and interference patterns in a large variety of setups, and may be used to devise new diffraction and interference experiments with atoms and molecules.

id: 1304.5548
title: Reducing the number of ancilla qubits and the gate count required for creating large controlled operations
authors: Katherine L. Brown, Anmer Daskin, Sabre Kais, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: Five pages, four figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5548
abstract: In this paper we show that it is possible to adapt a qudit scheme for creating a controlled-Toffoli created by Ralph et al. [Phys. Rev. A 75 011213] to be applicable to qubits. While this scheme requires more gates than standard schemes for creating large controlled gates, we show that with simple adaptations it is directly equivalent to the standard scheme in the literature. This scheme is the most gate-efficient way of creating large controlled unitaries currently known, however it is expensive in terms of the number of ancilla qubits used. We go on to show that using a combination of these standard techniques presented by Barenco et al. [Phys. Rev. A 52 3457 (1995)] we can create an n-qubit version of the Toffoli using less gates and the same number of ancilla qubits as recent work using computer optimization. This would be useful in any architecture of quantum computing where gates are cheap but qubit initialization is expensive.

id: 1304.5569
title: Dynamics of Entanglement in one and two-dimensional spin systems
authors: Gehad Sadiek, Qing Xu, Sabre Kais
comments: review article to appear in: To appear in Adv. Chem. Phys. (2013)
journal: Review chapter in Quantum Information and Computation for Chemistry: Adv. in Chem. Phys., Volume 154, 443-501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5569
abstract: We present a review of dynamics of entanglement in one and two dimensional systems under the effect of external magnetic field and different degrees of anisotropy at zero and finite temperatures. Different techniques for treating the spin systems with large Hilbert space dimensions are discussed such as trace minimization algorithm, time-evolution matrix transformation and step by step projection technique.

id: 1304.5666
title: The Structure and Quantum Capacity of a Partially Degradable Quantum Channel
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 59 pages, 13 figures, Journal-ref: IEEE Access
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5666
abstract: The quantum capacity of degradable quantum channels has been proven to be additive. On the other hand, there is no general rule for the behavior of quantum capacity for non-degradable quantum channels. We introduce the set of partially degradable (PD) quantum channels to answer the question of additivity of quantum capacity for a well-separable subset of non-degradable channels. A quantum channel is partially degradable if the channel output can be used to simulate the degraded environment state. PD channels could exist both in the degradable, non-degradable and conjugate degradable family. We define the term partial simulation, which is a clear benefit that arises from the structure of the complementary channel of a PD channel. We prove that the quantum capacity of an arbitrary dimensional PD channel is additive. We also demonstrate that better quantum data rates can be achieved over a PD channel in comparison to standard (non-PD) channels. Our results indicate that the partial degradability property can be exploited and yet still hold many benefits for quantum communications.

id: 1304.5689
title: A 'Dysonization' Scheme for Identifying Particles and Quasi-Particles Using Non-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics
authors: Katherine Jones-Smith
comments: 
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 28 April 2013 vol. 371 no. 1989 20120056
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5689
abstract: In 1956 Dyson analyzed the low-energy excitations of a ferromagnet using a Hamiltonian that was non-Hermitian with respect to the standard inner product. This allowed for a facile rendering of these excitations (known as spin waves) as weakly interacting bosonic quasi-particles. More than 50 years later, we have the full denouement of non-Hermitian quantum mechanics formalism at our disposal when considering Dyson's work, both technically and contextually. Here we recast Dyson's work on ferromagnets explicitly in terms of two inner products, with respect to which the Hamiltonian is always self-adjoint, if not manifestly "Hermitian". Then we extend his scheme to doped antiferromagnets described by the t-J model, in hopes of shedding light on the physics of high-temperature superconductivity.

id: 1304.5692
title: Vector Models in PT Quantum Mechanics
authors: Katherine Jones-Smith, Rudolph Kalveks
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.52:2187-2195,2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5692
abstract: We present two examples of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians which consist of an unperturbed part plus a perturbation that behaves like a vector, in the framework of PT quantum mechanics. The first example is a generalization of the recent work by Bender and Kalveks, wherein the E2 algebra was examined; here we consider the E3 algebra representing a particle on a sphere, and identify the critical value of coupling constant which marks the transition from real to imaginary eigenvalues. Next we analyze a model with SO(3) symmetry, and in the process extend the application of the Wigner-Eckart theorem to a non-Hermitian setting.

id: 1304.5735
title: Stieltjes Electrostatic Model Interpretation for Bound State Problems
authors: K V S Shiv Chaitanya
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5735
abstract: In this paper, Stieltjes electrostatic model and quantum Hamilton Jacobi formalism is analogous to each other is shown. This analogy allows, the bound state problem to mimics as $n$ unit moving imaginary charges $i\hbar$, which are placed in between the two fixed imaginary charges arising due to the classical turning points of the potential. The interaction potential between $n$ unit moving imaginary charges $i\hbar$ is given by logarithm of the wave function. For an exactly solvable potential, this system attains stable equilibrium position at the zeros of the orthogonal polynomials depending upon the interval of the classical turning points.

id: 1304.5754
title: A chip-scale, telecommunications-band frequency conversion interface for quantum emitters
authors: Imad Agha, Serkan Ates, Marcelo Davanco, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: Final published version; some modifications in text and figures with respect to original
journal: Optics Express, v21(18), pp. 21628-21638 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5754
abstract: We describe a chip-scale, telecommunications-band frequency conversion interface designed for low-noise operation at wavelengths desirable for common single photon emitters. Four-wave mixing Bragg scattering in silicon nitride waveguides is used to demonstrate frequency upconversion and downconversion between the 980 nm and 1550 nm wavelength regions, with signal-to-background levels >10 and conversion efficiency of approximately -60 dB at low continuous wave input pump powers (<50 mW). Finite element simulations and the split-step Fourier method indicate that increased input powers of approximately 10 W (produced by amplified nanosecond pulses, for example) will result in a conversion efficiency >25 % in existing geometries. Finally, we present waveguide designs that can be used to connect shorter wavelength (637 nm to 852 nm) quantum emitters with 1550 nm.

id: 1304.5773
title: Graph isomorphism and adiabatic quantum computing
authors: Frank Gaitan, Lane Clark
comments: 22 pages; 18 figures; and 6 tables; version to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A vol. 89, 022342 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5773
abstract: In the Graph Isomorphism problem two N-vertex graphs G and G' are given and the task is to determine whether there exists a permutation of the vertices of G that preserves adjacency and transforms G into G'. If yes, then G and G' are said to be isomorphic; otherwise they are non-isomorphic. The GI problem is an important problem in computer science and is thought to be of comparable difficulty to integer factorization. In this paper we present a quantum algorithm that solves arbitrary instances of GI and can also determine all automorphisms of a given graph. We show how the GI problem can be converted to a combinatorial optimization problem that can be solved using adiabatic quantum evolution. We numerically simulate the algorithm's quantum dynamics and show that it correctly: (i) distinguishes non-isomorphic graphs; (ii) recognizes isomorphic graphs; and (iii) finds all automorphisms of a given graph G. We then discuss the GI quantum algorithm's experimental implementation, and close by showing how it can be leveraged to give a quantum algorithm that solves arbitrary instances of the NP-Complete Sub-Graph Isomorphism problem.

id: 1304.5786
title: van der Waals Interaction Energy Between Two Atoms Moving With Uniform Acceleration
authors: Antonio Noto, Roberto Passante
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 025041 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5786
abstract: We consider the interatomic van der Waals interaction energy between two neutral ground-state atoms moving in the vacuum space with the same uniform acceleration. We assume the acceleration orthogonal to their separation, so that their mutual distance remains constant. Using a model for the van der Waals dispersion interaction based on the interaction between the instantaneous atomic dipole moments, which are induced and correlated by the zero-point field fluctuations, we evaluate the interaction energy between the two accelerating atoms in terms of quantities expressed in the laboratory reference frame. We find that the dependence of the van der Waals interaction between the atoms from the distance is different with respect to the case of atoms at rest, and the relation of our results with the Unruh effect is discussed. We show that in the near zone a new term proportional to $R^{-5}$ adds to the usual $R^{-6}$ behavior, and in the far zone a term proportional to $R^{-6}$ adds to the usual $R^{-7}$ behavior, making the interaction of a longer range. We also find that the interaction energy is time-dependent, and the physical meaning of this result is discussed. In particular, we find acceleration-dependent corrections to the $R^{-7}$ (far zone) and $R^{-6}$ (near zone) proportional to $a^2t^2/c^2$; this suggests that significant changes to the van der Waals interaction between the atoms could be obtained if sufficiently long times are taken, without necessity of the extremely high accelerations required by other known manifestations of the Unruh effect.

id: 1304.5804
title: Tight Bounds on the Synthesis of 3-bit Reversible Circuits: NFT Library
authors: Ahmed Younes
comments: 18 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1101.4384
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5804
abstract: The reversible circuit synthesis problem can be reduced to permutation group. This allows Schreier-Sims Algorithm for the strong generating set-finding problem to be used to find tight bounds on the synthesis of 3-bit reversible circuits using the NFT library. The tight bounds include the maximum and minimum length of 3-bit reversible circuits, the maximum and minimum cost of 3-bit reversible circuits. The analysis shows better results than that found in the literature for the lower bound of the cost. The analysis also shows that there are 1960 universal reversible sub-libraries from the main NFT library.

id: 1304.5820
title: Squeezing of a movable mirror via the dissipative optomechanical coupling
authors: Wen-ju Gu, Gao-xiang Li, Ya-ping Yang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5820
abstract: We investigate the squeezing for a movable mirror in the dissipative optomechanics in which the oscillating mirror modulates both the resonance frequency and the linewidth of the cavity mode. Via feeding a much weaker broadband squeezed vacuum light accompanying the coherent driving laser field into the cavity, the master equation for the cavity-mirror system is derived by following the general reservoir theory based on the density operator in which the reservoir variables are adiabatically eliminated by using the reduced density operator for the system in the interaction picture. When the mirror is weakly coupled to the cavity mode, we find that under the conditions of laser cooling to the ground state, the driven cavity field can effectively perform as a squeezed vacuum reservoir for the movable mirror via utilizing the completely destructive interference of quantum noise, and thus the efficient transfer of squeezing from the light to the movable mirror occurs, which is irrespective of the ratio between the cavity damping rate and the mechanical frequency. When the mirror is moderately coupled to the cavity mode, the photonic excitation can preclude the completely destructive interference of quantum noise, and as a consequence, the mirror deviates from the ideal squeezed state.

id: 1304.5824
title: Advantages of the probability amplitude over the probability density in quantum mechanics
authors: Yoshimasa Kurihara, Nhi My Uyen Quach
comments: 14pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1206.2432
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5824
abstract: We discuss reasons why a probability amplitude, which becomes a probability density after squaring, is considered as one of the most basic ingredients of quantum mechanics. First, the Heisenberg/Schrodinger equation, an equation of motion in quantum mechanics, describes a time evolution of the probability amplitude rather than of a probability density. There may be reasons why dynamics of a physical system are described by amplitude. In order to investigate one role of the probability amplitude in quantum mechanics, specialized codeword-transfer experiments are designed using classical information theory. Within this context, quantum mechanics based on probability amplitude provides the following: i) a minimum error of the codeword transfer; ii) this error is independent of coding parameters; and iii) nontrivial and nonlocal correlation can be realized. These are considered essential advantages of the probability amplitude over the probability density.

id: 1304.5828
title: Likelihood-free methods for quantum parameter estimation
authors: Christopher Ferrie, Christopher E. Granade
comments: Significantly revised presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 130402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5828
abstract: In this Letter, we strengthen and extend the connection between simulation and estimation to exploit simulation routines that do not exactly compute the probability of experimental data, known as the likelihood function. Rather, we provide an explicit algorithm for estimating parameters of physical models given access to a simulator which is only capable of producing sample outcomes. Since our algorithm does not require that a simulator be able to efficiently compute exact probabilities, it is able to exponentially outperform standard algorithms based on exact computation. In this way, our algorithm opens the door for the application of new insights and resources to the problem of characterizing large quantum systems, which is exponentially intractable using standard simulation resources.

id: 1304.5834
title: Reduced dynamics of two oscillators collectively coupled to a thermal bath
authors: B. A. Tay
comments: Misprints are corrected. Final version
journal: Physical Review E, Vol. 87, 052117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5834
abstract: We study the reduced dynamics of a pair of non-degenerate oscillators coupled collectively to a thermal bath. The model is related to the trilinear boson model where the idler mode is promoted to a field. Due to nonlinear coupling, the Markovian master equation for the pair of oscillators admits non-Gaussian equilibrium states, where the modes distribute according to the Bose-Einstein statistics. These states are metastable before the nonlinear coupling is taken over by linear coupling between the individual oscillators and the field. The Gibbs state for the individual modes lies in the subspace with infinite occupation quantum number. We present the time evolution of a few states to illustrate the behaviors of the system.

id: 1304.5841
title: Tuning the phase sensitivity of a double-lambda system with a static magnetic field
authors: Xiwei Xu, Shuo Shen, Yanhong Xiao
comments: 10 pagess, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5841
abstract: We study the effect of a DC magnetic field on the phase sensitivity of a double-lambda system coupled by two laser fields, a probe and a pump. It is demonstrated that the gain and the refractive index of the probe can be controlled by either the magnetic field or the relative phase between the two laser fields. More interestingly, when the system reduces to a single-lambda system, turning on the magnetic field transforms the system from a phase-insensitive process to a phase-sensitive one. In the pulsed-probe regime, we observed switching between slow and fast light when the magnetic field or the relative phase was adjusted. Experiments using a coated 87Rb vapor cell produced results in good agreement with our numerical simulation. This work provides a novel and simple means to manipulate phase sensitive electromagnetically-induced-transparency or four-wave mixing, and could be useful for applications in quantum optics, nonlinear optics and magnetometery based on such systems.

id: 1304.5851
title: Ancilla Assisted Quantum State Tomography in Many-Qubit Registers
authors: Abhishek Shukla, K. Rama Koteswara Rao, T. S. Mahesh
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5851
abstract: The standard method of Quantum State Tomography (QST) relies on the measurement of a set of noncommuting observables, realized in a series of independent experiments. Ancilla Assisted QST (AAQST) proposed by Nieuwenhuizen and co-workers (Phys. Rev. Lett., 92, 120402 (2004)) greatly reduces the number of independent measurements by exploiting an ancilla register in a known initial state. In suitable conditions AAQST allows mapping out density matrix of an input register in a single experiment. Here we describe methods for explicit construction of AAQST experiments in multi-qubit registers. We also report nuclear magnetic resonance studies on AAQST of (i) a two- qubit input register using a one-qubit ancilla in an isotropic liquid-state system and (ii) a three-qubit input register using a two-qubit ancilla register in a partially oriented system. The experimental results con?rm the e?ectiveness of AAQST in such many-qubit registers.

id: 1304.5874
title: Single photon reflection and transmission in optomechanical system
authors: M.A.Khan, S. C. Hou, K. Farooq, X. X. Yi
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, to be published in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 11, No. 2 (2013) 1350017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5874
abstract: Cavity Optomechanical system is speedily approaching the regime where the radiation pressure of a single photon displaces the moving mirror. In this paper, we consider a cavity optomechanical system where the cavity field is driven by an external field. In the limit of weak mirror-cavity couplings, we calculate analytically the reflection and transmission rates for cavity field and discuss the effects of mirror-cavity coupling on the reflection and transmission.

id: 1304.5888
title: Optical cloning of arbitrary images beyond the diffraction limits
authors: O. N. Verma, L. Zhang, J. Evers, T. N. Dey
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5888
abstract: Cloning of arbitrary images encoded onto the spatial profile of a laser beam onto that of a second beam is theoretically investigated. The two fields couple to an atomic lambda system in a coherent population trapping configuration. In particular, the case in which the probe and control fields are of comparable strength is considered. By considering more and more complex structures, we eventually find that our method is suitable to clone arbitrary images, which we demonstrated by a full numerical simulation of the propagation dynamics of both applied fields in the atomic medium, with the three letters "CPT" encoded on the initial control field profile. We find that the cloned structures have feature sizes reduced by about a factor of 2 compared to the initial images, consistent with a recent related experiment.

id: 1304.5916
title: A complete transformation rule set and a minimal equation set for CNOT-based 3-qubit quantum circuits (Draft)
authors: Issei Sakashita
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5916
abstract: We introduce a complete transformation rule set and a minimal equation set for controlled-NOT (CNOT)-based quantum circuits. Using these rules, quantum circuits that compute the same Boolean function are reduced to the same normal form. We can thus easily check the equivalence of circuits by comparing their normal forms. By applying the Knuth-Bendix completion algorithm to a set of modified 18 equations introduced by Iwama et al. 2002, we obtain a complete transformation rule set (i.e., a set of transformation rules with the properties of `termination' and `confluence'). Our transformation rule set consists of 114 rules. Moreover, we discovered a minimal combination of equations for the initial equation set.

id: 1304.5917
title: Exact dynamics of one-qubit system in layered environment
authors: Mahmoud Mahdian, Hadi Mehrabpour
comments: 20 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5917
abstract: We investigate the exact evolution of the reduced dynamics of a one qubit system as central spin coupled to a femionic layered environment with unlimited number of layers. Also, we study the decoherence induced on central spin by analysis solution is obtained in the limit $N\rightarrow\infty$ of an infinite number of bath spins. Finally, the Nakajima-Zwanzig (NZ) and the time-convolutionless (TCL) projection operator techniques to second order are derived.

id: 1304.5918
title: Kraus representation for maps and master equation in spin star model with layered environment
authors: Mahmoud Mahdian, Hadi Mehrabpour
comments: 19 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0311091, arXiv:1005.1604, arXiv:quant-ph/0108136 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5918
abstract: Quantum operations are usually defined as completely positive (CP), trace preserving (TP) maps on quantum states, and can be represented by operator-sum or Kraus representations. In this paper, we calculate operator-sum representation and master equation of an exactly solvable dynamic of one-qubit open system in layered environment . On the other hand, we obtain exact Nakajima-Zwanzig (NZ) and time-convolutionless (TCL) master equation from the maps. Finally, we study a simple example to consider the relation between CP maps and initial quantum correlation and show that vanishing initial quantum correlation is not necessary for CP maps.

id: 1304.5919
title: Feedback Control of Rabi Oscillations in Circuit QED
authors: Wei Cui, Franco Nori
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063823 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5919
abstract: We consider the feedback stabilization of Rabi oscillations in a superconducting qubit which is coupled to a microwave readout cavity. The signal is readout by homodyne detection of the in-phase quadrature amplitude of the weak measurement output. By multiplying the time-delayed Rabi reference, one can extract the signal, with maximum signal-to-noise ratio, from the noise. We further track and stabilize the Rabi oscillations by using Lyapunov feedback control to properly adjust the input Rabi drives. Theoretical and simulation results illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed control law.

id: 1304.5925
title: Measures of quantum synchronization in continuous variable systems
authors: A. Mari, A. Farace, N. Didier, V. Giovannetti, R. Fazio
comments: 5+1 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 103605 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5925
abstract: We introduce and characterize two different measures which quantify the level of synchronization of interacting continuous variable quantum systems. The two measures allow to extend to the quantum domain the notions of complete and phase synchronization. The Heisenberg principle sets a universal bound to complete synchronization. The measure of phase synchronization is in principle unbounded, however in the absence of quantum resources (e.g. squeezing) the synchronization level is bounded below a certain threshold. We elucidate some interesting connections between entanglement and synchronization and, finally, discuss an application based on quantum opto-mechanical systems.

id: 1304.5931
title: Entanglement rates and area laws
authors: Karel Van Acoleyen, Micha?l Mari?n, Frank Verstraete
comments: v3: improved presentation of the SIE-proof, matching the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 170501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5931
abstract: We prove an upper bound on the maximal rate at which a Hamiltonian interaction can generate entanglement in a bipartite system. The scaling of this bound as a function of the subsystem dimension on which the Hamiltonian acts nontrivially is optimal and is exponentially improved over previously known bounds. As an application, we show that a gapped quantum many-body spin system on an arbitrary lattice satisfies an area law for the entanglement entropy if and only if any other state with which it is adiabatically connected (i.e. any state in the same phase) also satisfies an area law.

id: 1304.5944
title: Efficient atomic clocks operated with several atomic ensembles
authors: Johannes Borregaard, Anders S. S?rensen
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 090802 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5944
abstract: Atomic clocks are typically operated by locking a local oscillator (LO) to a single atomic ensemble. In this article we propose a scheme where the LO is locked to several atomic ensembles instead of one. This results in an exponential improvement compared to the conventional method and provides a stability of the clock scaling as $(\alpha N)^{-m/2}$ with $N$ being the number of atoms in each of the $m$ ensembles and $\alpha$ is a constant depending on the protocol being used to lock the LO

id: 1304.5977
title: A general framework for phase and interference
authors: Andrew J. P. Garner, Oscar C. O. Dahlsten, Yoshifumi Nakata, Mio Murao, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 12 pages, 3 appendices, 4 figures, 3 tables
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 093044
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5977
abstract: Phase plays a crucial role in many quantum effects including interference. Phase is normally defined in terms of complex numbers that appear when representing quantum states as complex vectors. Here we give an operational definition whereby phase is instead defined in terms of measurement statistics. Our definition is phrased in terms of the operational framework known as generalised probabilistic theories, or the convex framework. The definition makes it possible to ask whether other theories in this framework can also have phase. We apply our definition to investigate phase and interference in several example theories: classical probability theory, a version of Spekken's toy model, quantum theory, and box-world. We find that phase is ubiquitous; any non-classical theory can be said to have non-trivial phase dynamics.

id: 1304.6068
title: Signatures of Hong-Ou-Mandel Interference at Microwave Frequencies
authors: M. J. Woolley, C. Lang, C. Eichler, A. Wallraff, A. Blais
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 105025 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6068
abstract: Two-photon quantum interference at a beam splitter, commonly known as Hong-Ou-Mandel interference, was recently demonstrated with \emph{microwave-frequency} photons by Lang \emph{et al.}\,\cite{lang:microwaveHOM}. This experiment employed circuit QED systems as sources of microwave photons, and was based on the measurement of second-order cross-correlation and auto-correlation functions of the microwave fields at the outputs of the beam splitter. Here we present the calculation of these correlation functions for the cases of inputs corresponding to: (i) trains of \emph{pulsed} Gaussian or Lorentzian single microwave photons, and (ii) resonant fluorescent microwave fields from \emph{continuously-driven} circuit QED systems. The calculations include the effects of the finite bandwidth of the detection scheme. In both cases, the signature of two-photon quantum interference is a suppression of the second-order cross-correlation function for small delays. The experiment described in Ref. \onlinecite{lang:microwaveHOM} was performed with trains of \emph{Lorentzian} single photons, and very good agreement between the calculations and the experimental data was obtained.

id: 1304.6095
title: Entanglement of three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-symmetric states
authors: Christopher Eltschka, Jens Siewert
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 020502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6095
abstract: The first characterization of mixed-state entanglement was achieved for two-qubit states in Werner's seminal work [Phys. Rev. A 40, 4277 (1989)]. A physically important extension of this result concerns mixtures of a pure entangled state (such as the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger [GHZ] state) and the completely unpolarized state. These mixed states serve as benchmark for the robustness of entanglement. They share the same symmetries as the GHZ state. We call such states GHZ-symmetric. Despite significant progress their multipartite entanglement properties have remained an open problem. Here we give a complete description of the entanglement in the family of three-qubit GHZ-symmetric states and, in particular, of the three-qubit generalized Werner states. Our method relies on the appropriate parameterization of the states and on the invariance of entanglement properties under general local operations. An immediate application of our results is the definition of a symmetrization witness for the entanglement class of arbitrary three-qubit states.

id: 1304.6100
title: Fault-Tolerant Renormalization Group Decoder for Abelian Topological Codes
authors: Guillaume Duclos-Cianci, David Poulin
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. Vol. 14, No.9&10, pp0721-0740 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6100
abstract: We present a three-dimensional generalization of a renormalization group decoding algorithm for topological codes with Abelian anyonic excitations that we previously introduced for two dimensions. This 3D implementation extends our previous 2D algorithm by incorporating a failure probability of the syndrome measurements, i.e., it enables fault-tolerant decoding. We report a fault-tolerant storage threshold of 1.9(4)% for Kitaev's toric code subject to a 3D bit-flip channel (i.e. including imperfect syndrome measurements). This number is to be compared with the 2.9% value obtained via perfect matching. The 3D generalization inherits many properties of the 2D algorithm, including a complexity linear in the space-time volume of the memory, which can be parallelized to logarithmic time.

id: 1304.6130
title: Quantum mechanical study of a generic quadratically coupled optomechanical system
authors: H. Shi, M. Bhattacharya
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043829 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6130
abstract: Typical optomechanical systems involving optical cavities and mechanical oscillators rely on a coupling that varies linearly with the oscillator displacement. However, recently a coupling varying instead as the square of the mechanical displacement has been realized, presenting new possibilities for non-demolition measurements and mechanical squeezing. In this article we present a quantum mechanical study of a generic quadratic-coupling optomechanical Hamiltonian. First, neglecting dissipation, we provide analytical results for the dressed states, spectrum, phonon statistics and entanglement. Subsequently, accounting for dissipation, we supply a numerical treatment using a master equation approach. We expect our results to be of use to optomechanical spectroscopy, state transfer, wavefunction engineering, and entanglement generation.

id: 1304.6166
title: Kochen-Specker Sets with Thirty Rank-Two Projectors in Three-Qubit System
authors: S. P. Toh
comments: 11 pages, 11 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6166
abstract: A simple three rules supplemented by five steps scheme is proposed to produce Kochen-Specker (KS) sets with 30 rank-2 projectors that occur twice each. The KS sets provide state-independent proof of KS theorem based on a system of three qubits. A small adjustment of the scheme enables us to manually generate a large number of KS sets with a mixture of rank-1 and rank-2 projectors.

id: 1304.6198
title: Signature candidate of quantum chaos far from the semiclassical regime
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Zhengyuan Xu
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures, RevTex4, The calculation of the scaled rank correlation coefficient was added. Accepted by Chaos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6198
abstract: We numerically investigated the entanglement product in the simplest coupled kicked top model with the spin $j=1$. Different from the dynamical pattern of entanglement in the semiclassical regime, two similar initial states may have discordant entanglement oscillations. A candidate of the quantum signature of this classical chaotic system was proposed. The potential antimonotonic relation between the rank correlation coefficient qualifying the concordant of two entanglement evolutions and the stationary entanglement was preliminarily revealed.

id: 1304.6215
title: Realization of holonomic single-qubit operations
authors: K. Toyoda, K. Uchida, A. Noguchi, S. Haze, S. Urabe
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052307 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6215
abstract: Universal single-qubit operations based on purely geometric phase factors in adiabatic processes are demonstrated by utilizing a four-level system in a trapped single $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ion connected by three oscillating fields. Robustness against parameter variations is studied. The scheme demonstrated here can be employed as a building block for large-scale holonomic quantum computations, which may be useful for large qubit systems with statistical variations in system parameters.

id: 1304.6221
title: Photon transfer in ultrastrongly coupled three-cavity arrays
authors: S. Felicetti, G. Romero, D. Rossini, R. Fazio, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013853 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6221
abstract: We study the photon transfer along a linear array of three coupled cavities where the central one contains an interacting two-level system in the strong and ultrastrong coupling regimes. We find that an inhomogeneously coupled array forbids a complete single-photon transfer between the external cavities when the central one performs a Jaynes-Cummings dynamics. This is not the case in the ultrastrong coupling regime, where the system exhibits singularities in the photon transfer time as a function of the cavity-qubit coupling strength. Our model can be implemented within the state-of-the-art circuit quantum electrodynamics technology and it represents a building block for studying photon state transfer through scalable cavity arrays.

id: 1304.6240
title: Dark states in multi-mode multi-atom Jaynes-Cummings systems
authors: Clive Emary
comments: 5 pages; 3 figs
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 224008 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6240
abstract: We consider a system consisting of N two-level atoms inside an M-mode degenerate, driven cavity. We discuss the formation of dark states in this system and derive the conditions required for the observation of the dark-state anti-resonance in the cavity emission.

id: 1304.6275
title: Relationship among locally maximally entanglable states, W states and hypergraph states under local unitary transformations
authors: Ri Qu, Yi-ping Ma, Bo Wang, Yan-ru Bao
comments: 11 pages, 1 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052331 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6275
abstract: Kruszynska and Kraus [Phys. Rev. A 79, 052304 (2009)] have recently introduced the so-called locally maximally entanglable (LME) states of n qubits which can be maximally entangled to local auxiliary qubits using controlled operations. We characterize the local entanglability of hypergraph states and W states using an approach in [Phys. Rev. A 79, 052304 (2009)]. We show that (i) all hypergraph states are LME; (ii) hypergraph states and LME states are not equivalent under local unitaries; (iii) a W state of n qubits is not LME; and (iv) no hypergraph state of n qubits can be converted into to the W state under local unitary transformations. Moreover, we also present an approach for encoding weighted hypergraphs into LME states.

id: 1304.6277
title: Localization properties of squeezed quantum states in nanoscale space domains
authors: A. S. Trushechkin, I. V. Volovich
comments: 40 pages; a revised and extended version of Proc. Steklov Inst. Math 265 (2009), 276- 306
journal: Proc. Steklov Inst. Math. 265 (2009) 276
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6277
abstract: We construct families of squeezed quantum states on an interval (depending on boundary conditions, we interpret the interval as a circle or as the infinite square potential well) and obtain estimates of position and momentum dispersions for these states. A particular attention is paid to the possibility of proper localization of a particle in nanoscale space domains. One of the constructed family of squeezed states is based on the theta function. It is a generalization of the known coherent and squeezed states on the circle. Also we construct a family of squeezed states based on truncated Gaussian functions and a family of wave packets based on the discretization of an arbitrary continuous momentum probability distribution. The problem of finiteness of the energy dispersion for the squeezed states in the infinite well is discussed. Finally, we perform the limit of large interval length and the semiclassical limit. As a supplementary general result, we show that an arbitrary physical quantity has a finite dispersion if and only if the wave function of a quantum system belongs to the domain of the corresponding self-adjoint operator. This can be regarded as a physical meaning of the domain of a self-adjoint operator.

id: 1304.6278
title: Lifetimes of atoms trapped in an optical lattice in proximity of a surface
authors: Sophie Pelisson, Riccardo Messina, Marie-Christine Angonin, Peter Wolf
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88 013411 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6278
abstract: We study the lifetime of an atom trapped in an optical vertical lattice in proximity of a massive surface using a complex scaling approach. We analyze how the presence of the surface modifies the known lifetimes of Wannier-Stark states associated to Landau-Zener tunnelling. We also investigate how the existence of a hypothetical short-distance deviation from Newton's gravitational law could affect these lifetimes. Our study is relevant in order to discuss the feasibility of any atomic- interferometry experiment performed near a surface. Finally, the difficulties encountered in applying the complex-scaling approach to the atom-surface Casimir-Polder interaction are addressed.

id: 1304.6307
title: Efficient tomography of quantum-optical Gaussian processes probed with a few coherent states
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang, Zong-Wen Yu, Jia-Zhong Hu, Adam Miranowicz, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. Some parts of this article are based on our preliminary unpublished version arXiv:1010.0472v1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6307
abstract: An arbitrary quantum-optical process (channel) can be completely characterized by probing it with coherent states using the recently developed coherent-state quantum process tomography (QPT) [Lobino et al., Science 322, 563 (2008)]. In general, precise QPT is possible if an infinite set of probes is available. Thus, realistic QPT of infinite-dimensional systems is approximate due to a finite experimentally-feasible set of coherent states and its related energy-cut-off approximation. We show with explicit formulas that one can completely identify a quantum-optical Gaussian process just with a few different coherent states without approximations like the energy cut-off. For tomography of multimode processes, our method exponentially reduces the number of different test states, compared with existing methods.

id: 1304.6351
title: Universal Uncertainty Relations
authors: Shmuel Friedland, Vlad Gheorghiu, Gilad Gour
comments: 5 + 5 pages, 4 figures, replaced with the published version. Additional references added. Comments are welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 230401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6351
abstract: Uncertainty relations are a distinctive characteristic of quantum theory that impose intrinsic limitations on the precision with which physical properties can be simultaneously determined. The modern work on uncertainty relations employs \emph{entropic measures} to quantify the lack of knowledge associated with measuring non-commuting observables. However, there is no fundamental reason for using entropies as quantifiers; any functional relation that characterizes the uncertainty of the measurement outcomes defines an uncertainty relation. Starting from a very reasonable assumption of invariance under mere relabelling of the measurement outcomes, we show that Schur-concave functions are the most general uncertainty quantifiers. We then discover a fine-grained uncertainty relation that is given in terms of the majorization order between two probability vectors, \textcolor{black}{significantly extending a majorization-based uncertainty relation first introduced in [M. H. Partovi, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{84}, 052117 (2011)].} Such a vector-type uncertainty relation generates an infinite family of distinct scalar uncertainty relations via the application of arbitrary uncertainty quantifiers. Our relation is therefore universal and captures the essence of uncertainty in quantum theory.

id: 1304.6374
title: Preparation of entangled and antiferromagnetic states by dissipative Rydberg pumping
authors: A. W. Carr, M. Saffman
comments: revised to include comparison with transverse field Ising model
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 033607 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6374
abstract: We propose and analyze an approach for preparation of high fidelity entanglement and antiferromagnetic states using Rydberg mediated interactions with dissipation. Using asymmetric Rydberg interactions the two-atom Bell singlet is a dark state of the Rydberg pumping process. Master equation simulations demonstrate Bell singlet preparation fidelity $\mcF=0.998$. Antiferromagnetic states are generated on a four spin plaquette in agreement with results found from diagonalization of the transverse field Ising Hamiltonian.

id: 1304.6425
title: Lack of measurement independence can simulate quantum correlation even when signaling cannot
authors: Manik Banik
comments: 5 pages (double column); accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032118 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6425
abstract: In Bell scenario, any nonlocal correlation, shared between two spatially separated parties, can be modeled deterministically either by allowing communications between the two parties or by restricting their free will in choosing the measurement settings. Recently, Bell scenario has been generalized into `semi-quantum' scenario where external quantum inputs are provided to the parties. We show that in `semi-quantum' scenario, entangled states produce correlations whose deterministic explanation is possible only if measurement independence is reduced. Thus in simulating quantum correlation `semi-quantum' scenario reveals a qualitative distinction between signaling and measurement dependence which is absent in Bell scenario. We further show that such distinction is not observed in `steering game' scenario, a special case of `semi-quantum' scenario.

id: 1304.6462
title: Entanglement-based quantum key distribution with biased basis choice via free space
authors: Yuan Cao, Hao Liang, Juan Yin, Hai-Lin Yong, Fei Zhou, Yu-Ping Wu, Ji-Gang Ren, Yu-Huai Li, Ge-Sheng Pan, Tao Yang, Xiongfeng Ma, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 22, pp. 27260-27268 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6462
abstract: We report a free-space entanglement-based quantum key distribution experiment, implementing the biased basis protocol between two sites which are 15.3 km apart. Photon pairs from a polarization-entangled source are distributed through two 7.8-km free-space optical links. An optimal bias 20:80 between the X and Z basis is used. A post-processing scheme with finite-key analysis is applied to extract the final secure key. After three-hour continuous operation at night, a 4293-bit secure key is obtained, with a final key rate of 0.124 bit per raw key bit which increases the final key rate by 14.8% comparing to the standard BB84 case. Our results experimentally demonstrate that the efficient BB84 protocol, which increases key generation efficiency by biasing Alice and Bob's basis choices, is potentially useful for the ground-satellite quantum communication.

id: 1304.6500
title: Comparative study of monotonically convergent optimization algorithms for the control of molecular rotation
authors: M. Ndong, M. Lapert, C. Koch, D. Sugny
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043416 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6500
abstract: We apply two different monotonically convergent optimization algorithms to the control of molecular rotational dynamics by laser pulses. This example represents a quantum control problem where the interaction of the system with the external field is non-linear. We test the validity and accuracy of the two methods on the key control targets of producing molecular orientation and planar delocalization at zero temperature, and maximizing permanent alignment at non-zero temperature.

id: 1304.6612
title: Single-photon quadratic optomechanics
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 6302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6612
abstract: We present exact analytical solutions to study the coherent interaction between a single photon and the mechanical motion of a membrane in quadratic optomechanics. We consider single-photon emission and scattering when the photon is initially inside the cavity and in the fields outside the cavity, respectively. Using our solutions, we calculate the single-photon emission and scattering spectra, and find relations between the spectral features and the system's inherent parameters, such as: the optomechanical coupling strength, the mechanical frequency, and the cavity-field decay rate. In particular, we clarify the conditions for the phonon sidebands to be visible. We also study the photon-phonon entanglement for the long-time emission and scattering states. The linear entropy is employed to characterize this entanglement by treating it as a bipartite one between a single mode of phonons and a single photon.

id: 1304.6618
title: Derivation of Born Rule from Algebraic and Statistical Axioms
authors: Izumi Ojima, Kazuya Okamura, Hayato Saigo
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6618
abstract: In the present paper we propose a new axiomatic system of algebraic and statistical axioms as working hypotheses, from which Born rule can be seen to emerge. In this process the concept of sectors defined as quasi-equivalence classes of factor states plays a crucial role.

id: 1304.6635
title: An Optimized Photon Pair Source for Quantum Circuits
authors: Georg Harder, Vahid Ansari, Benjamin Brecht, Thomas Dirmeier, Christoph Marquardt, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 12, pp. 13975-13985 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6635
abstract: We implement an ultrafast pulsed type-II parametric down conversion source in a periodically poled KTP waveguide at telecommunication wavelengths with almost identical properties between signal and idler. As such, our source resembles closely a pure, genuine single mode photon pair source with indistinguishable modes. We measure the joint spectral intensity distribution and second order correlation functions of the marginal beams and find with both methods very low effective mode numbers corresponding to a Schmidt number below 1.16. We further demonstrate the indistinguishability as well as the purity of signal and idler photons by Hong-Ou-Mandel interferences between signal and idler and between signal/idler and a coherent field, respectively. Without using narrowband spectral filtering, we achieve a visibility for the interference between signal and idler of 94.8% and determine a purity of more than 80% for the heralded single photon states. Moreover, we measure raw heralding efficiencies of 20.5% and 15.5% for the signal and idler beams corresponding to detector-loss corrected values of 80% and 70%.

id: 1304.6636
title: Spatially uniform single-qubit gate operations with near-field microwaves and composite pulse compensation
authors: Christopher M. Shappert, J. True Merrill, K. R. Brown, Jason M. Amini, Curtis Volin, S. Charles Doret, Harley Hayden, C.-S. Pai, Kenneth R. Brown, Alexa W. Harter
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6636
abstract: We present a microfabricated surface-electrode ion trap with a pair of integrated waveguides that generate a standing microwave field resonant with the 171Yb+ hyperfine qubit. The waveguides are engineered to position the wave antinode near the center of the trap, resulting in maximum field amplitude and uniformity along the trap axis. By calibrating the relative amplitudes and phases of the waveguide currents, we can control the polarization of the microwave field to reduce off-resonant coupling to undesired Zeeman sublevels. We demonstrate single-qubit pi-rotations as fast as 1 us with less than 6 % variation in Rabi frequency over an 800 um microwave interaction region. Fully compensating pulse sequences further improve the uniformity of X-gates across this interaction region.

id: 1304.6675
title: Asymptotic evaluation of bosonic probability amplitudes in linear unitary networks in the case of large number of bosons
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich
comments: International Journal of Quantum Information DOI: 10.1142/S0219749913500457
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6675
abstract: An asymptotic analytical approach is proposed for bosonic probability amplitudes in unitary linear networks, such as the optical multiport devices for photons. The asymptotic approach applies for large number of bosons $N\gg M$ in the $M$-mode network, where $M$ is finite. The probability amplitudes of $N$ bosons unitarily transformed from the input modes to the output modes of a unitary network are expressed through a multidimensional integral with the integrand containing a large parameter (N) in the exponent. The integral representation allows an asymptotic estimate of bosonic probability amplitudes up to a multiplicative error of order 1/N by the saddle point method. The estimate depends on solution of the scaling problem for the $M\times M$-dimensional unitary network matrix: to find the left and right diagonal matrices which scale the unitary matrix to a matrix which has specified row and column sums (equal, respectively, to the distributions of bosons in the input and output modes). The scaled matrices give the saddle points of the integral. For simple saddle points, an explicit formula giving the asymptotic estimate of bosonic probability amplitudes is derived. Performance of the approximation and the scaling of the relative error with N are studied for two-mode network (the beam-splitter), where the saddle-points are roots of a quadratic and an exact analytical formula for the probability amplitudes is available, and for three-mode network (the tritter).

id: 1304.6679
title: Cavity cooling of an optically levitated nanoparticle
authors: Nikolai Kiesel, Florian Blaser, Uros Delic, David Grass, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Markus Aspelmeyer
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: PNAS, vol. 11, no. 35, 14180-14185 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6679
abstract: The ability to trap and to manipulate individual atoms is at the heart of current implementations of quantum simulations, quantum computing, and long-distance quantum communication. Controlling the motion of larger particles opens up yet new avenues for quantum science, both for the study of fundamental quantum phenomena in the context of matter wave interference, and for new sensing and transduction applications in the context of quantum optomechanics. Specifically, it has been suggested that cavity cooling of a single nanoparticle in high vacuum allows for the generation of quantum states of motion in a room-temperature environment as well as for unprecedented force sensitivity. Here, we take the first steps into this regime. We demonstrate cavity cooling of an optically levitated nanoparticle consisting of approximately 10e9 atoms. The particle is trapped at modest vacuum levels of a few millibar in the standing-wave field of an optical cavity and is cooled through coherent scattering into the modes of the same cavity. We estimate that our cooling rates are sufficient for ground-state cooling, provided that optical trapping at a vacuum level of 10e-7 millibar can be realized in the future, e.g., by employing additional active-feedback schemes to stabilize the optical trap in three dimensions. This paves the way for a new light-matter interface enabling room-temperature quantum experiments with mesoscopic mechanical systems.

id: 1304.6689
title: Comment on "Protocol for Direct Counterfactual Quantum Communication" [arXiv:1206.2042]
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: Correction of a misspelled name
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6689
abstract: I argue that recent "Protocol for Direct Counterfactual Quantum Communication" by Salih et al. [PRL 110, 170502 (2013), arXiv:1206.2042] is counterfactual only for one type of the information bit.

id: 1304.6702
title: NOON states in trapped ions
authors: D. Rodr¨ªguez-M¨¦ndez, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 
journal: Physica Scripta T147, 014028 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6702
abstract: We show how NOON states may be generated in ion traps. We use the individual interaction of light with each of two vibrational modes of the ion to entangle them. This allows us to generate NOON states with N=8.

id: 1304.6730
title: NOON states in cavities
authors: D. Rodr¨ªguez-M¨¦ndez, H.M. Moya-Cessa
comments: 
journal: Optics Communications 284, 3345 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6730
abstract: We show how NOON states may be generated entangling two cavities by passing atoms through them. The atoms interact with each cavity via two-photon resonant transitions. We take advantage of the fact that depending on the state the atom enter (excite or ground), it leaves or takes two photons per interaction and leaves the cavities in a pure state.

id: 1304.6767
title: Casimir Momentum of a Chiral Molecule in a Magnetic Field
authors: Manuel Donaire, Bart van Tiggelen, Geert L.J.A. Rikken
comments: 5 pages + Supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 143602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6767
abstract: In a classical description, a neutral, polarizable object acquires a kinetic momentum when exposed to crossed electric and magnetic fields. In the presence of only a magnetic field no such momentum exists classically, although it is symmetry-allowed for an object lacking mirror symmetry. We perform a full QED calculation to show that the quantum vacuum coupled to a chiral molecule provides a kinetic "Casimir" momentum directed along the magnetic field, proportional to its rotatory power and the fine structure constant.

id: 1304.6775
title: Negative eigenvalues of partial transposition of arbitrary bipartite states
authors: Swapan Rana
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 054301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6775
abstract: The partial transposition of a two-qubit state has at most one negative eigenvalue and all the eigenvalues lie in [-1/2,1]. In this Brief Report, we extend this result by Sanpera et al. [A. Sanpera, R. Tarrach and G. Vidal, Phys. Rev. A 58, 826 (1998)] to arbitrary bipartite states. We show that partial transposition of an $m\otimes n$ state can not have more than (m-1)(n-1) number of negative eigenvalues. Low-dimensional states have been studied to show the tightness of this result and explicit examples have been provided for $mn\le 9$. It is also shown that all the eigenvalues of partial transposition lie within [-1/2,1]. Some possible applications are also discussed.

id: 1304.6779
title: Optomechanical back-action evading measurement without parametric instability
authors: Steven K. Steinke, K. C. Schwab, Pierre Meystre
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, accepted by Phys Rev A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6779
abstract: We review a scheme for performing a back-action evading measurement of one mechanical quadrature in an optomechanical setup. The experimental application of this scheme has been limited by parametric instabilities caused in general by a slight dependence of the mechanical frequency on the electromagnetic energy in the cavity. We find that a simple modification to the optical drive can effectively eliminate the parametric instability even at high intracavity power, allowing realistic devices to achieve sub-zero-point uncertainties in the measured quadrature.

id: 1304.6815
title: Quantum Implemention of an LTI System with the minimal number of additional quantum noise inputs
authors: Shanon L. Vuglar, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6815
abstract: Physical Realizability addresses the question of whether it is possible to implement a given LTI system as a quantum system. It is in general not true that a given synthesized quantum controller described by a set of stochastic differential equations is equivalent to some physically meaningful quantum system. However, if additional quantum noises are permitted in the implementation it is always possible to implement an arbitrary LTI system as a quantum system. In this paper we give an expression for the exact number of noises required to implement a given LTI system as a quantum system. Furthermore, we focus our attention on proving that this is a minimum, that is, it is not possible to implement the system as a quantum system with a smaller number of additional quantum noises.

id: 1304.6827
title: Quantum State Tomography via Linear Regression Estimation
authors: Bo Qi, Zhibo Hou, Li Li, Daoyi Dong, Guoyong Xiang, Guangcan Guo
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, Comments are welcome
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 3496 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6827
abstract: A simple yet efficient method of linear regression estimation (LRE) is presented for quantum state tomography. In this method, quantum state reconstruction is converted into a parameter estimation problem of a linear regression model and the least-squares method is employed to estimate the unknown parameters. The asymptotic mean squared error (MSE) bound of the estimate can be given analytically, which can guide one to choose optimal measurement sets. The LRE is asymptotically optimal in the sense that the MSE may achieve the Cram\'{e}r-Rao bound asymptotically. The computational complexity of LRE is O(d^4), where d is the dimension of the quantum state. Numerical examples show that LRE is much faster than maximum-likelihood estimation for quantum state tomography.

id: 1304.6861
title: Ultranarrow-Band Photon Pair Source Compatible with Solid State Quantum Memories and Telecommunication Networks
authors: Julia Fekete, Daniel Rielander, Matteo Cristiani, Hugues de Riedmatten
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 220502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6861
abstract: We report on a source of ultranarrow-band photon pairs generated by widely nondegenerate cavity-enhanced spontaneous down-conversion. The source is designed to be compatible with Pr3+ solid state quantum memories and telecommunication optical fibers, with signal and idler photons close to 606 nm and 1436 nm, respectively. Both photons have a spectral bandwidth around 2 MHz, matching the bandwidth of Pr3+ doped quantum memories. This source is ideally suited for long distance quantum communication architectures involving solid state quantum memories.

id: 1304.6879
title: Toward computability of trace distance discord
authors: F. Ciccarello, T. Tufarelli, V. Giovannetti
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures. Added a new section featuring an application
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 013038 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6879
abstract: It is known that a reliable geometric quantifier of discord-like correlations can be built by employing the so-called trace distance. This is used to measure how far the state under investigation is from the closest "classical-quantum" one. To date, the explicit calculation of this indicator for two qubits was accomplished only for states such that the reduced density matrix of the measured party is maximally mixed, a class that includes Bell-diagonal states. Here, we first reduce the required optimization for a general two-qubit state to the minimization of an explicit two-variable function. Using this framework, we show next that the minimum can be analytically worked out in a number of relevant cases including quantum-classical and X states. This provides an explicit and compact expression for the trace distance discord of an arbitrary state belonging to either of these important classes of density matrices.

id: 1304.6902
title: Non-Markovian effects in waveguide-mediated entanglement
authors: C. Gonzalez-Ballestero, F.J. Garcia-Vidal, Esteban Moreno
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 073015 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6902
abstract: We study the generation and evolution of entanglement between two qubits coupled through one-dimensional waveguide modes. By using a complete quantum electrodynamical formalism we go beyond the Markovian approximation. The diagonalization of the hamiltonian is carried out, and a set of quasi-localized eigenstates is found. We show that when the qubit-waveguide coupling is increased, the Markov approximation is not anymore valid, and the generation of entanglement is worsened.

id: 1304.6928
title: Studies on some exponential-screened Coulomb potentials
authors: Amlan K. Roy
comments: 15 pages, 5 tables, 2 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Chemistry, 113, 1503-1510 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6928
abstract: The generalized pseudospectral method is employed to study the bound-state spectra of some of the exponentially screened Coulomb potentials, \emph{viz.}, the exponential cosine screened Coulomb (ECSC) and general exponential screened Coulomb (GESC) potential, with special emphasis on \emph{higher} states and \emph{stronger} interaction. Eigenvalues accurate up to eleven significant figures are obtained through a non-uniform optimal spatial discretization of the radial Schr\"odinger equation. All the 55 eigenstates of ECSC potential with $n \le 10$ and 36 eigenstates of GESC potential with $n \le 8$ are considered for arbitrary values of the screening parameter, covering a wide range of interaction. Excited states as high as up to $n=18$ have been computed with high accuracy for the first time. Excellent agreement with the literature data has been observed in all cases. All the GESC eigenstates are calculated with much greater accuracy than the existing methods available in literature. Many $l \ne 0$ states of this potential are reported here. In both cases, a detailed variation of energies with respect to the parameters in potential is monitored.

id: 1304.6935
title: Quantum correlations in a noisy neutron interferometer
authors: Christopher J. Wood, David G. Cory, Mohamed O. Abutaleb, Michael G. Huber, Muhammad Arif, Dmitry A. Pushin
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures. V3 includes expanded theoretical analysis and discussion of post-selected spin measurements in different bases
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 032315 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6935
abstract: We investigate quantum coherences in the presence of noise by entangling the spin and path degrees of freedom of the output neutron beam from a noisy three-blade perfect crystal neutron interferometer. We find that in the presence of dephasing noise on the path degree of freedom the entanglement of the output state reduces to zero, however the quantum discord remains non-zero for all noise values. Hence even in the presence of strong phase noise non-classical correlations persist between the spin and path of the neutron beam. This indicates that measurements performed on the spin of the neutron beam will induce a disturbance on the path state. We calculate the effect of the spin measurement by observing the changes in the observed contrast of the interferometer for an output beam post-selected on a given spin state. In doing so we demonstrate that these measurements allow us to implement a quantum eraser, and a which-way measurement of the path taken by the neutron through the interferometer. While strong phase noise removes the quantum eraser, the spin-filtered which-way measurement is robust to phase noise. We experimentally demonstrate this disturbance by comparing the contrasts of the output beam with and without spin measurements of three neutron interferometers with varying noise strengths. This demonstrates that even in the presence of noise that suppresses path coherence and spin-path entanglement, a neutron interferometer still exhibits uniquely quantum behaviour.

id: 1304.7019
title: Local Quantum Uncertainty and Bounds on Quantumness for Orthogonally invariant class of states
authors: Ajoy Sen, Amit Bhar, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, revtex, revised version, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7019
abstract: Local quantum uncertainty (in short LQU) was introduced by Girolami et. al.(Phy. Rev. Lett. \textbf{110}, 240402) as a measure of quantum uncertainty in a quantum state as achievable on single local measurement. However, such quantity do satisfy all necessary criteria to serve as measure of discord like quantum correlation and it has no closed formula except only for $2\otimes n$ system. Here, we consider orthogonal invariant class of states which includes both the Werner and Isotropic class of states and explore the possibility of closed form formula. Further, we extend our quest to the possibility of closed form of geometric discord and measurement induced nonlocality for this class. We also provide a comparative study of the bounds of general quantum correlations with entanglement, as measured by negativity, for an interesting subclass of states.

id: 1304.7024
title: Preventing Calibration Attacks on the Local Oscillator in Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Paul Jouguet, S¨¦bastien Kunz-Jacques, Eleni Diamanti
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062313 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7024
abstract: Establishing an information-theoretic secret key between two parties using a quantum key distribution (QKD) system is only possible when an accurate characterization of the quantum channel and proper device calibration routines are combined. Indeed, security loopholes due to inappropriate calibration routines have been shown for discrete-variable QKD. Here, we propose and provide experimental evidence of an attack targeting the local oscillator calibration routine of a continuous-variable QKD system. The attack consists in manipulating the classical local oscillator pulses during the QKD run in order to modify the clock pulses used at the detection stage. This allows the eavesdropper to bias the shot noise estimation usually performed using a calibrated relationship. This loophole can be used to perform successfully an intercept-resend attack. We characterize the loophole and suggest possible countermeasures.

id: 1304.7031
title: The conditional entropy power inequality for Gaussian quantum states
authors: Robert Koenig
comments: 27 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 56, 022201 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7031
abstract: We propose a generalization of the quantum entropy power inequality involving conditional entropies. For the special case of Gaussian states, we give a proof based on perturbation theory for symplectic spectra. We discuss some implications for entanglement-assisted classical communication over additive bosonic noise channels.

id: 1304.7058
title: Quantifying entanglement of arbitrary-dimensional multipartite pure states in terms of the singular values of coefficient matrices
authors: Hui Li, Shuhao Wang, Jianlian Cui, Gui-Lu Long
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042335 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7058
abstract: The entanglement quantification and classification of multipartite quantum states are two important research fields in quantum information. In this work, we study the entanglement of arbitrary-dimensional multipartite pure states by looking at the averaged partial entropies of various bipartite partitions of the system, namely, the so-called Manhattan distance ($l_1$ norm) of averaged partial entropies (MAPE), and it is proved to be an entanglement measure for pure states. We connected the MAPE with the coefficient matrices, which are important tools in entanglement classification and reexpressed the MAPE for arbitrary-dimensional multipartite pure states by the nonzero singular values of the coefficient matrices. The entanglement properties of the $n$-qubit Dicke states, arbitrary-dimensional Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, and $D_3^n$ states are investigated in terms of the MAPE, and the relation between the rank of the coefficient matrix and the degree of entanglement is demonstrated for symmetric states by two examples.

id: 1304.7060
title: High-dimensional quantum state transfer through a quantum spin chain
authors: Wei Qin, Chuan Wang, Gui-Lu Long
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 012339 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7060
abstract: In this paper, we investigate a high-dimensional quantum state transfer protocol. An arbitrary unknown high-dimensional state can be transferred with high fidelity between two remote registers through a XX coupling spin chain of arbitrary length. The evolution of the state transfer is determined by the natural dynamics of the chain without external modulation and coupling strength engineering. As a consequence, entanglement distribution with high efficiency can be achieved. Also the strong field and high spin quantum number can counteract partly the effect of finite temperature to ensure high fidelity of the protocol when the quantum data bus is in the thermal equilibrium state under an external magnetic field.

id: 1304.7069
title: Quantum nonlocality of massive qubits in a moving frame
authors: Hong-Yi Su, Yu-Chun Wu, Jing-Ling Chen, Chunfeng Wu, L. C. Kwek
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; Minor changes, accepted by PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7069
abstract: We perform numerical tests on quantum nonlocality of two-level quantum systems (qubits) observed by a uniformly moving observer. Under a suitable momentum setting, the quantum nonlocality of two-qubit nonmaximally entangled states could be weakened drastically by the Lorentz transformation allowing for the existence of local-hidden-variable models, whereas three-qubit genuinely entangled states are robust. In particular, the generalized GHZ state remains nonlocal under arbitrary Wigner rotation and the generalized W state could admit local-hidden-variable models within a rather narrow range of parameters.

id: 1304.7092
title: Direct measurement of the biphoton Wigner function through two-photon interference
authors: Tom Douce, Andreas Eckstein, Stephen P. Walborn, Antonio Z. Khoury, Sara Ducci, Arne Keller, Thomas Coudreau, P¨¦rola Milman
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures plus supplementary information; submitted; comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7092
abstract: The Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) experiment was a benchmark in quantum optics, evidencing the quantum nature of the photon. In order to go deeper, and obtain the complete information about the quantum state of a system, for instance, composed by photons, the direct measurement or reconstruction of the Wigner function or other quasi--probability distribution in phase space is necessary. In the present paper, we show that a simple modification in the well-known HOM experiment provides the direct measurement of the Wigner function. We apply our results to a widely used quantum optics system, consisting of the biphoton generated in the parametric down conversion process. In this approach, a negative value of the Wigner function is a sufficient condition for non-gaussian entanglement between two photons. In the general case, the Wigner function provides all the required information to infer entanglement using well known necessary and sufficient criteria. We analyze our results using two examples of parametric down conversion processes taken from recent experiments. The present work offers a new vision of the HOM experiment that further develops its possibilities to realize fundamental tests of quantum mechanics involving decoherence and entanglement using simple optical set-ups.

id: 1304.7105
title: Access structure in graphs in high dimension and application to secret sharing
authors: Anne Marin, Damian Markham, Simon Perdrix
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7105
abstract: We give graphical characterisation of the access structure to both classical and quantum information encoded onto a multigraph defined for prime dimension $q$, as well as explicit decoding operations for quantum secret sharing based on graph state protocols. We give a lower bound on $k$ for the existence of a $((k,n))_q$ scheme and prove, using probabilistic methods, that there exists $\alpha$ such that a random multigraph has an accessing parameter $k\leq \alpha n$ with high probability.

id: 1304.7195
title: Noise-resistant optimal spin squeezing via quantum control
authors: T. Caneva, S. Montangero, M. D. Lukin, T. Calarco
comments: 4 pages of main text + 3 pages of supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7195
abstract: Entangled atomic states, such as spin squeezed states, represent a promising resource for a new generation of quantum sensors and atomic clocks. We demonstrate that optimal control techniques can be used to substantially enhance the degree of spin squeezing in strongly interacting many-body systems, even in the presence of noise and imperfections. Specifically, we present a time-optimal protocol that yields more than two orders of magnitude improvement with respect to conventional adiabatic preparation. Potential experimental implementations are discussed.

id: 1304.7196
title: Bose-Hubbard models with photon pairing in circuit-QED
authors: Benjamin Villalonga Correa, Andreas Kurcz, Juan jose Garcia-Ripoll
comments: Final version, 19 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 224024
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7196
abstract: In this work we study a family of bosonic lattice models that combine an on-site repulsion term with a nearest-neighbor pairing term, $\sum_{< i,j>} a^\dagger_i a^\dagger_j + \mathrm{H.c.}$ Like the original Bose-Hubbard model, the nearest-neighbor term is responsible for the mobility of bosons and it competes with the local interaction, inducing two-mode squeezing. However, unlike a trivial hopping, the counter-rotating terms form pairing cannot be studied with a simple mean-field theory and does not present a quantum phase transition in phase space. Instead, we show that there is a cross-over from a pure insulator to long-range correlations that start up as soon as the two-mode squeezing is switched on. We also show how this model can be naturally implemented using coupled microwave resonators and superconducting qubits.

id: 1304.7225
title: Negativity as a counter of entangled dimensions
authors: Christopher Eltschka, Jens Siewert
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 100503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7225
abstract: Among all entanglement measures negativity arguably is the best known and most popular tool to quantify bipartite quantum correlations. It is easily computed for arbitrary states of a composite system and can therefore be applied to discuss entanglement in an ample variety of situations. However, its direct physical meaning has not been pointed out yet. We show that the negativity can be viewed as an estimator of how many degrees of freedom of two subsystems are entangled. As it is possible to give lower bounds for the negativity even in a device-independent setting, it is the appropriate quantity to certify quantumness of both parties in a bipartite system and to determine the minimum number of dimensions that contribute to the quantum correlations.

id: 1304.7237
title: A study of local and non-local spatial densities in quantum field theory
authors: R.E. Wagner, M.R. Ware, E.V. Stefanovich, Q. Su, R. Grobe
comments: 29 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 85 (2012) 022121
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7237
abstract: We use a one-dimensional model system to compare the predictions of two different 'yardsticks' to compute the position of a particle from its quantum field theoretical state. Based on the first yardstick (defined by the Newton-Wigner position operator), the spatial density can be arbitrarily narrow and its time-evolution is superluminal for short time intervals. Furthermore, two spatially distant particles might be able to interact with each other outside the light cone, which is manifested by an asymmetric spreading of the spatial density. The second yardstick (defined by the quantum field operator) does not permit localized states and the time evolution is subluminal.

id: 1304.7259
title: Classification of multipartite entanglement in all dimensions
authors: Gilad Gour, Nolan R. Wallach
comments: 5+10 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 060502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7259
abstract: We provide a systematic classification of multiparticle entanglement in terms of equivalence classes of states under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). We show that such an SLOCC equivalency class of states is characterized by ratios of homogenous polynomials that are invariant under local action of the special linear group. We then construct the complete set of all such SL-invariant polynomials (SLIPs). Our construction is based on Schur-Weyl duality and applies to any number of qudits in all (finite) dimensions. In addition, we provide an elegant formula for the dimension of the homogenous SLIPs space of a fixed degree as a function of the number of qudits. The expressions for the SLIPs involve in general many terms, but for the case of qubits we also provide much simpler expressions.

id: 1304.7309
title: Discord and information deficit in the XX chain
authors: L. Ciliberti, N. Canosa, R. Rossignoli
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures. References added
journal: Physical Review A 88, 012119 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7309
abstract: We examine the quantum correlations of spin pairs in the cyclic $XX$ spin 1/2 chain in a transverse field, through the analysis of the quantum discord, the geometric discord and the information deficit. It is shown that while these quantities provide the same qualitative information, being non-zero for all temperatures and separations and exhibiting the same type of asymptotic behavior for large temperatures or separations, important differences arise in the minimizing local measurement that defines them. Whereas the quantum discord prefers a spin measurement perpendicular to the transverse field, the geometric discord and information deficit exhibit a perpendicular to parallel transition as the field increases, which subsists at all temperatures and for all separations. Moreover, it is shown that such transition signals the change from a Bell state to an aligned separable state of the dominant eigenstate of the reduced density matrix of the pair. Full exact results for both the thermodynamic limit and the finite chain are provided, through the Jordan-Wigner fermionization.

id: 1304.7311
title: Optimal Partitioned-Interval Detection Binary Quantum Receiver with Practical Devices
authors: Ke Li, Bing Zhu
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures, submitted to IEEE Photonics Society 2013 Summer Topicals
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7311
abstract: Partitioned-interval detection binary quantum receiver with non-ideal devices is theoretically analyzed. Using global optimized partition strategy, relatively large gain over standard quantum limit (SQL) is obtained with small partition number for certain mean photon number.

id: 1304.7316
title: Suppressing the Errors due to Mode Mismatch for M-ary PSK Quantum Receivers by Photon-Number-Resolving Detector
authors: Ke Li, Yuan Zuo, Bing Zhu
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7316
abstract: A M-ary phase shift keying (PSK) quantum receiver consisting of displacement operations, photon counting, and electrical feed-back adaptive measurements is analyzed with a realistic model considering the effects of the sub-unity quantum efficiency and the dark counts of single-photon detectors, as well as the transmittance and the mode mismatch of beam splitters. Among these factors, the mode mismatch has the greatest impact on the error probability of the receiver with on-off detectors. The errors due to mode mismatch can be suppressed effectively by using photon-number-resolving detectors (PNRD) instead of on-off detectors.

id: 1304.7319
title: Single-qubit peration sharing with Bell and W product states
authors: Qibin Jia, Yimin Liub, Xiansong Liua, Xiaofeng Yina, Zhanjun Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7319
abstract: Two tripartite schemes are put forward with shared entanglements and LOCC for sharing an operation on a remote target sate. The first scheme uses a Bell and a symmetric W states as quantum channels, while the second replaces the symmetric W state by an asymmetric one. Both schemes are treated and compared from the aspects of quantum resource consumption, operation complexity, classical resource consumption, success probability and efficiency. It is found that, the latter scheme is better than the former one. Particularly, the sharing can be achieved only probabilistically with the first scheme deterministically with the second one.

id: 1304.7320
title: Shared quantum control via sharing operation on remote single qutrit
authors: Daochu Liu, Yimin Liu, Xiaofeng Yin, Xiansong Liu, Zhanjun Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7320
abstract: Two qubit operation sharing schemes [J. Phys. B 44 (2011) 165508] are generalized to qutrit ones. Operations to be shared are classified into three different classes in terms of different probabilities (i.e, 1/3, 2/3 and 1). For the latter two classes, ten and three restricted sets of operations are found out, respectively. Moreover, the two generalized schemes are amply compared from four aspects, namely, quantum and classical resource consumption, necessaryoperation complexity, success probability and efficiency. It is found that the second scheme is overall more optimal than the first one as far as three restricted sets of operations are concerned.

id: 1304.7323
title: Nanomechanical Inverse Electromagnetically Induced Transparency and Confinement of Light in Normal modes
authors: G. S. Agarwal, Sumei Huang
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 033023 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7323
abstract: We demonstrate the existence of the phenomenon of the inverse electromagnetically induced transparency (IEIT) in an opto mechanical system consisting of a nanomechanical mirror placed in an optical cavity. We show that two weak counter-propagating identical classical probe fields can be completely absorbed by the system in the presence of a strong coupling field so that the output probe fields are zero. The light is completely confined inside the cavity and the energy of the incoming probe fields is shared between the cavity field and creation of a coherent phonon and resides primarily in one of the polariton modes. The energy can be extracted by a perturbation of the external fields or by suddenly changing the $Q$ of the cavity.

id: 1304.7325
title: Quantum Decoherence of Charge Qubit coupled to Nonlinear Nanomechanical Resonator
authors: C. Cheng, Y. B. Gao
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 60 (2013) 531
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7325
abstract: When the nonlinearity of nanomechanical resonator is not negligible, the quantum decoherence of charge qubit is studied analytically. Using nonlinear Jaynes-Cummings model, one explores the possibility of being quantum data bus for nonlinear nanomechanical resonator, the nonlinearity destroys the dynamical quantum information-storage and maintains the revival of quantum coherence of charge qubit. With the calculation of decoherence factor, we demonstrate the influence of the nonlinearity of nanomechanical resonator on engineered decoherence of charge qubit.

id: 1304.7348
title: Engineering entanglement for metrology with rotating matter waves
authors: L.M. Rico-Gutierrez, T.P. Spiller, J.A. Dunningham
comments: 8 pages and 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7348
abstract: Entangled states of rotating, trapped ultracold bosons form a very promising scenario for quantum metrology. In order to employ such states for metrology, it is vital to understand their detailed form and the enhanced accuracy with which they could measure phase, in this case generated through rotation. In this work we study the rotation of ultracold bosons in an asymmetric trapping potential beyond the lowest Landau level (LLL) approximation. We demonstrate that whilst the LLL can identify reasonably the critical frequency for a quantum phase transition and entangled state generation, it is vital to go beyond the LLL to identify the details of the state and quantify the quantum Fisher information (which bounds the accuracy of the phase measurement). We thus identify a new parameter regime for useful entangled state generation, amenable to experimental investigation.

id: 1304.7362
title: Odd-even effect of quantum discord and quantum phase transitions in the S=1/2 spin ladder with ring exchange
authors: H.L. Huang, Z.Y. Sun, B. Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7362
abstract: The singularity of quantum correlations, such as quantum entanglement(QE) and quantum discord(QD), has been widely regarded as a valuable indicator for quantum phase transition(QPT) in low-dimensional quantum systems. In this paper, for a spin ladder system with ring exchange, we find that the singularity of QD (or QE) could not indicate the critical points of the system. Instead, the QD shows a novel odd-even effect in some phases, which can be used to detect the phase boundary points. The size effect is related to the symmetry breaking of the ladder.

id: 1304.7368
title: Solution to the measurement problem within linear, unitary, no collapse, no particle quantum mechanics
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7368
abstract: The measurement problem is to explain why a system which is in a linear combination of states appears, upon measurement, to be in just one of those states. The solution given here is to first show that if one assumes linear, unitary, no collapse, no particle quantum mechanics, the different versions of reality are completely isolated from each other. This then implies only the eigenstates appropriate to the measurement setup will be perceived. In a Stern-Gerlach experiment, for example, only spin up or spin down will be perceived, but never a combination of the two.

id: 1304.7409
title: One Sided indeterminism alone is not a useful resource to simulate any nonlocal correlation
authors: Biswajit Paul, Kaushiki Mukherjee, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, revtex, to appear in qip
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7409
abstract: Determinism, no signaling and measurement independence are some of the constraints required for framing Bell inequality. Any model simulating nonlocal correlations must either individually or jointly give up these constraints. Recently M. J. W. Hall (Phys Review A, \textbf{84}, 022102 (2011)) derived different forms of Bell inequalities under the assumption of individual or joint relaxation of those constraints on both(i.e., two) the sides of a bipartite system. In this work we have investigated whether one sided relaxation can also be a useful resource for simulating nonlocal correlations or not. We have derived Bell-type inequalities under the assumption of joint relaxation of these constraints only by one party of a bipartite system. Interestingly we found that any amount of randomness in correlations of one party in absence of signaling between two parties is incapable of showing any sort of Bell-CHSH violation whereas signaling and measurement dependence individually can simulate any nonlocal correlations. We have also completed the proof of a recent conjecture due to Hall (Phys. Rev. A \textbf{82}, 062117 (2010); Phys. Rev. A \textbf{84}, 022102 (2011)) for one sided relaxation scenario only.

id: 1304.7412
title: A Note on Locally Unextendible Non-Maximally Entangled Basis
authors: Bin Chen, Halqem Nizamidin, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 4 pages
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 13 (2013) 1077-1080
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7412
abstract: We study the locally unextendible non-maximally entangled basis (LUNMEB) in $H^{d}\bigotimes H^{d}$. We point out that there exists an error in the proof of the main result of LUNMEB [Quant. Inf. Comput. 12, 0271(2012)], which claims that there are at most $d$ orthogonal vectors in a LUNMEB, constructed from a given non-maximally entangled state. We show that both the proof and the main result are not correct in general. We present a counter example for $d=4$, in which five orthogonal vectors from a specific non-maximally entangled state are constructed. Besides, we completely solve the problem of LUNMEB for the case of $d=2$.

id: 1304.7433
title: Quantum criticality analysis by finite size scaling and exponential basis sets
authors: Fahhad H Alharbi, Sabre Kais
comments: 6 pages and 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7433
abstract: We combine the finite size scaling method with the meshfree spectral method to calculate quantum critical parameters for a given Hamiltonian. The basic idea is to expand the exact wave function in a finite exponential basis set and extrapolate the information about system criticality from a finite basis to the infinite basis set limit. The used exponential basis set -though chosen intuitively- allows handling a very wide range of exponential decay rates and calculating multiple eigenvalues simultaneously. As a benchmark system to illustrate the combined approach, we choose the Hulthen potential. The results show that the method is very accurate and converges faster when compared with other basis functions. The approach is general and can be extended to examine near threshold phenomena for atomic and molecular systems based on even-tempered exponential and Gaussian basis functions.

id: 1304.7460
title: Towards loophole-free Bell inequality test with preselected unsymmetrical singlet states of light
authors: M. Stobi¨½ska, F. T?ppel, P. Sekatski, A. Buraczewski
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, accepted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022119 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7460
abstract: Can a Bell test with no detection loophole be demonstrated for multi-photon entangled states of light within the current technology? We examine the possibility of a postselection-free CHSH-Bell inequality test wih an unsymmetrical polarization singlet. To that end we employ a preselection procedure which is performed prior to the test. It allows using imperfect (coarse-grained) binary photodetection in the test. We show an example of preselection scheme which improves violation of the CHSH inequality with the micro-macro polarization singlet produced by the optimal quantum cloning. The preselection is realized by a quantum filter which is believed to be not useful for this purpose.

id: 1304.7469
title: Asking photons where have they been
authors: Ariel Danan, Demitry Farfurnik, Shimshon Bar-Ad, Lev Vaidman
comments: Revised according to requests of 6 referees with 4 new Supplements. To be published in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7469
abstract: Quantum mechanics does not provide a clear answer to the question: What was the past of a photon which went through an interferometer? Various welcher weg measurements, delayed-choice which-path experiments and weak-measurements of photons in interferometers presented the past of a photon as a trajectory or a set of trajectories. We have carried out experimental weak measurements of the paths of photons going through a nested Mach-Zehnder interferometer which show a different picture: the past of a photon is not a set of continuous trajectories. The photons tell us that they have been in the parts of the interferometer which they could not have possibly reached! Our results lead to rejection of a "common sense" approach to the past of a quantum particle. On the other hand, they have a simple explanation within the framework of the two-state vector formalism of quantum theory.

id: 1304.7474
title: The past of a quantum particle
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, to be published in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7474
abstract: Although there is no consensus regarding the "reality" of the past of a quantum particle, in situations where there is only one trajectory with nonvanishing quantum wave of the particle between its emission and detection points, it seems "safe" to associate the past of the particle with this trajectory. A method for analyzing the past of a quantum particle according to the weak trace it leaves is proposed. Such a trace can be observed via measurements performed on an ensemble of identically pre- and post-selected particles. Examples, in which this method contradicts the above common sense description of the past of the particle are presented. It is argued that it is possible to describe the past of a quantum particle, but the naive approach has to be replaced by both forward and backward evolving quantum states.

id: 1304.7475
title: The Casimir Torque on a Cylindrical Gear
authors: Varun Vaidya
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7475
abstract: We utilize Effective Field Theory(EFT) techniques to calculate the casimir torque on a cylindrical gear in the presence of a polarizable but neutral object. We present results for the energy and torque as a function of angle for a gear with multiple cogs, as well as for the case of a concentric cylindrical gear.

id: 1304.7550
title: Does a Quantum Particle Know its Own Energy?
authors: Rafael D. Sorkin
comments: plainTeX, 15 pages, 2 figures. To appear in Journal of Physics: Conf. Ser. Most current version is available at this http URL (or wherever my home-page may be, such as this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7550
abstract: If a wave function does not describe microscopic reality then what does? Reformulating quantum mechanics in path-integral terms leads to a notion of "precluded event" and thence to the proposal that quantal reality differs from classical reality in the same way as a set of worldlines differs from a single worldline. One can then ask, for example, which sets of electron trajectories correspond to a Hydrogen atom in its ground state and how they differ from those of an excited state. We address the analogous questions for simple model that replaces the electron by a particle hopping (in discrete time) on a circular lattice.

id: 1304.7609
title: Quantum metrology: why entanglement?
authors: Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042109 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7609
abstract: We show why and when entanglement is needed for quantum-enhanced precision measurements, and which type of entanglement is useful. We give a simple, intuitive construction that shows how entanglement transforms parallel estimation strategies into sequential ones of same precision. We employ this argument to generalize conventional quantum metrology, to identify a class of noise whose effects can be easily managed, and to treat the case of indistinguishable probes (such as interferometry with light).

id: 1304.7618
title: On the size of linear superpositions in molecular nanomagnets
authors: Filippo Troiani, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 094413 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7618
abstract: Molecular nanomagnets are zero-dimensional spin systems, that exhibit quantum mechanical behavior at low temperatures. Exploiting quantum-information theoretic measures, we quantify here the size of linear superpositions that can be generated within the ground multiplet of high- and low-spin nanomagnets. Amongst the former class of systems, we mainly focus on Mn12 and Fe8. General criteria for further increasing such sizes are also outlined, and illustrated in the case of spin rings. The actual character (micro or macroscopic) of linear superpositions in low-spin systems is inherently ill-defined. Here, this issue is addressed with specific reference to the Cr7Ni and V15 molecules, characterized by an S=1/2 ground state. In both cases, the measures we obtain are larger than those of a single s=1/2 spin, but not proportionate to the number and value of the constituent spins.

id: 1304.7623
title: Contextuality and probability representation of quantum states
authors: A.A. Strakhov, V.I. Man'ko
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7623
abstract: The contextuality and noncontextuality notions are considered in framework of probability representation of quantum states. Example of qutrit states and violation of the noncontextuality inequalities are presented by using the spin tomogram and tomographic symbols of the observables.

id: 1304.7725
title: Spread of correlations in long-range interacting quantum systems
authors: Philipp Hauke, Luca Tagliacozzo
comments: 4 pages + Supplemental Material, 3+1 Figures. v2: revised introduction and conclusion. Accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 207202 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7725
abstract: The non-equilibrium response of a quantum many-body system defines its fundamental transport properties and how initially localized quantum information spreads. However, for long-range-interacting quantum systems little is known. We address this issue by analyzing a local quantum quench in the long-range Ising model in a transverse field, where interactions decay as a variable power-law with distance $\propto r^{-\alpha}$, $\alpha>0$. Using complementary numerical and analytical techniques, we identify three dynamical regimes: short-range-like with an emerging light cone for $\alpha>2$; weakly long-range for $1<\alpha<2$ without a clear light cone but with a finite propagation speed of almost all excitations; and fully non-local for $\alpha<1$ with instantaneous transmission of correlations. This last regime breaks generalized Lieb--Robinson bounds and thus locality. Numerical calculation of the entanglement spectrum demonstrates that the usual picture of propagating quasi-particles remains valid, allowing an intuitive interpretation of our findings via divergences of quasi-particle velocities. Our results may be tested in state-of-the-art trapped-ion experiments.

id: 1304.7755
title: Majorization entropic uncertainty relations
authors: Zbigniew Pucha?a, ?ukasz Rudnicki, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: Published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 272002 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7755
abstract: Entropic uncertainty relations in a finite dimensional Hilbert space are investigated. Making use of the majorization technique we derive explicit lower bounds for the sum of R\'enyi entropies describing probability distributions associated with a given pure state expanded in eigenbases of two observables. Obtained bounds are expressed in terms of the largest singular values of submatrices of the unitary rotation matrix. Numerical simulations show that for a generic unitary matrix of size N = 5 our bound is stronger than the well known result of Maassen and Uffink (MU) with a probability larger than 98%. We also show that the bounds investigated are invariant under the dephasing and permutation operations. Finally, we derive a classical analogue of the MU uncertainty relation, which is formulated for stochastic transition matrices.

id: 1304.7781
title: On-chip low loss heralded source of pure single photons
authors: Justin B. Spring, Patrick S. Salter, Benjamin J. Metcalf, Peter C. Humphreys, Merritt Moore, Nicholas Thomas-Peter, Marco Barbieri, Xian-Min Jin, Nathan K. Langford, W. Steven Kolthammer, Martin J. Booth, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 11, pp. 13522-13532 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7781
abstract: A key obstacle to the experimental realization of many photonic quantum-enhanced technologies is the lack of low-loss sources of single photons in pure quantum states. We demonstrate a promising solution: generation of heralded single photons in a silica photonic chip by spontaneous four-wave mixing. A heralding efficiency of 40%, corresponding to a preparation efficiency of 80% accounting for detector performance, is achieved due to efficient coupling of the low-loss source to optical fibers. A single photon purity of 0.86 is measured from the source number statistics without filtering, and confirmed by direct measurement of the joint spectral intensity. We calculate that similar high-heralded-purity output can be obtained from visible to telecom spectral regions using this approach. On-chip silica sources can have immediate application in a wide range of single-photon quantum optics applications which employ silica photonics.

id: 1304.7827
title: Analytic solutions of 2-photon and two-mode Rabi models
authors: Yao-Zhong Zhang
comments: LaTex 15 pages. This amended version corrects some errors and improves the steps in determining the minimal solutions of the 3-term recurrence relations. Additional analysis is provided and main conclusions of the paper remains unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7827
abstract: Applying Bogoliubov transformations and Bargmann-Hilbert spaces, we obtain analytic representations of solutions to the 2-photon and two-mode quantum Rabi models. In each case, a transcendental function is analytically derived whose zeros give the energy spectrum of the model. The zeros can be numerically found by standard root-search techniques. We also present analytic solution to the driven Rabi model with broken ${\cal Z}_2$ symmetry.

id: 1304.7839
title: Pathways toward understanding Macroscopic Quantum Phenomena
authors: B. L. Hu, Y. Subasi
comments: 11 pages, "Invited talk at the DICE meeting, Tuscany, Italy, Sept 2012. To appear in J. Phys. Conf. Ser (2013)"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7839
abstract: Macroscopic quantum phenomena refer to quantum features in objects of `large' sizes, systems with many components or degrees of freedom, organized in ways where they can be identified as macroscopic objects. This emerging field is ushered in by several categories of definitive experiments in superconductivity, electromechanical systems, Bose-Einstein condensates and others. Yet this new field which is rich in open issues at the foundation of quantum and statistical physics remains little explored theoretically [1]. This talk summarizes our thoughts on attempting a systematic investigation into its foundation, with the goal of ultimately revealing or building a viable theoretical framework. Three major themes discussed in three intended essays are the large N expansion [2], the correlation hierarchy [3] and quantum entanglement [4]. We give a sketch of the first two themes and then discuss several key issues in the consideration of macro and quantum, namely, a) recognition that in a composite body there exist many 'levels of structure' characterized by collective variables. The quantum features of a macroscopic object can be captured by understanding how these collective variables function; b) 'quantum entanglement', an exclusively quantum feature [5], is known to persist to high temperatures [6] and large scales [7] under certain conditions, and may actually decrease with increased connectivity in a quantum network [8]. Here we use entanglement as a measure of quantumness and pick out these somewhat counter-intuitive examples to show that there are blind spots worthy of our attention and issues which we need to analyze closer. Our purpose is to try to remove the stigma that quantum only pertains to micro, in order to make way for deeper probes into the conditions whereby quantum features of macroscopic systems manifest.

id: 1304.7850
title: Comment on "Entanglement and the Thermodynamic Arrow of Time" and Correct Reply on "Comment on "Quantum Solution to the Arrow-of-Time Dilemma"" of David Jennings and Terry Rudolph
authors: Oleg Kupervasser
comments: 5 pages, substantial text overlap with arXiv:1106.6160, but it is published as the different small paper
journal: "Frontiers in Science",Vol.2, No.6, December 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7850
abstract: Recently David Jennings and Terry Rudolph published two papers as reaction on Maccone's paper "Quantum Solution to the Arrow-of-Time Dilemma". In these papers, the authors suppose that second law of thermodynamics is not relevant for quantum systems. Unfortunately, these papers did not get relevant reply from Maccone. The reason of this is following. Both Maccone and the above-mentioned authors use thermodynamic law and thermodynamic-like terminology for non-thermodynamic systems, for example, microscopic system of three qubits. However, big size of a system (quantum or classic) is also not an enough condition for a system to be macroscopic. The macroscopic system must also be chaotic and has small chaotic interaction with its environment/observer resulting in decoherence (decorrelation). We demonstrate that for relevant thermodynamic macroscopic quantum systems no objection appears.

id: 1304.7871
title: Ultralow noise up-conversion detector and spectrometer at telecom band
authors: Guo-Liang Shentu, Jason S. Pelc, Xiao-Dong Wang, Qi-Chao Sun, Ming-Yang Zheng, M. M. Fejer, Qiang Zhang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Express, 21, 13986, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7871
abstract: We demonstrate upconversion single-photon detection for the 1550-nm band using a PPLN waveguide, long-wavelength pump, and narrowband filtering using a volume Bragg grating. We achieve total-system detection efficiency of around 30% with noise at the dark-count level of a silicon APD. Based on the new detector, a single-pixel up-conversion infrared spectrometer with a noise equivalent power of -142 dBm was demonstrated, which was better than liquid nitrogen cooled InGaAs arrary.

id: 1304.7912
title: Testing Quantum Gravity by Quantum Light
authors: I. Ruo Berchera, I. P. Degiovanni, S. Olivares, M. Genovese
comments: PRL in press
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 213601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7912
abstract: In the last years quantum correlations received large attention as key ingredient in advanced quantum metrology protocols, in this letter we show that they provide even larger advantages when considering multiple-interferometer setups. In particular we demonstrate that the use of quantum correlated light beams in coupled interferometers leads to substantial advantages with respect to classical light, up to a noise-free scenario for the ideal lossless case. On the one hand, our results prompt the possibility of testing quantum gravity in experimental configurations affordable in current quantum optics laboratories and strongly improve the precision in "larger size experiments" such as the Fermilab holometer; on the other hand, they pave the way for future applications to high precision measurements and quantum metrology.

id: 1304.7916
title: Improving continuous-variable entanglement distribution by separable states
authors: Ladislav Mi?ta, Jr., Natalia Korolkova
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 032310 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7916
abstract: We investigate the physical mechanism behind the counterintuitive phenomenon, the distribution of continuous-variable entanglement between two distant modes by sending a third separable auxiliary mode between them. For this purpose, we propose a new more simple and more efficient protocol resulting in distributed entanglement with more than an order of the magnitude higher logarithmic negativity than in the previously proposed protocol. This new protocol shows that the distributed entanglement originates from the entanglement of one mode and the auxiliary mode used for distribution which is first destroyed by local correlated noises and restored subsequently by the interference of the auxiliary mode with the second distant separable correlated mode.

id: 1304.7968
title: Can electrostatic field lift spin degeneracy?
authors: Tihomir G. Tenev, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7968
abstract: There are two well known mechanisms which lead to lifting of energy spin degeneracy of single electron systems - magnetic field and spin-orbit coupling. We investigate the possibility for existence of a third mechanism in which electrostatic field can lead to lifting of spin-degeneracy directly without the mediation of spin-orbit coupling. A novel argument is provided for the need of spin-orbit coupling different from the usual relativistic considerations. It is shown that due to preserved translational invariance spin splitting purely by electrostatic field is not possible for Bloch states. A possible lifting of spin degeneracy by electrostatic field characterized by broken inversion and translational invariance is considered.

id: 1304.7976
title: Is magnetic chiral dichroism feasible with electron vortices?
authors: Peter Schattschneider, Stefan L?ffler, Michael St?ger-Pollach, Johan Verbeeck
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7976
abstract: We discuss the feasibility of detecting magnetic transitions with focused electron vortex probes, suggested by selection rules for the magnetic quantum number. We theoretically estimate the dichroic signal strength in the L$_{2,3}$ edge of the ferromagnetic d metals. It is shown that under realistic conditions, the dichroic signal is undetectable for nanoparticles larger than ~1 nm. This is confirmed by a key experiment with nanometer sized vortices.

id: 1304.8007
title: Comment on "Quantized Orbital Angular Momentum Transfer and Magnetic Dichroism in the Interaction of Electron Vortices with Matter"
authors: Peter Schattschneider, Stefan L?ffler, Johan Verbeeck
comments: Submitted to Physical Review Letters 11 July 2012. Accepted for publication 3 April 2013. "Copyright (2013) by the American Physical Society." this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.8007
abstract: It was claimed (Lloyd et al., PRL 108 (2012) 074802) that energy loss magnetic chiral dichroism (EMCD) with electron vortex beams is feasible, and has even advantages over the standard setup with Bragg diffracted waves. In this Comment, we show that Lloyd et al. ignored an important constraint on the proposed selection rule for the transfer of angular momentum in the interaction, namely that it is only valid for an atom located in the very center of the vortex. As an experimental consequence, the EMCD signal will only be strong for extremely small nanoparticles of 1 to 2 nm diameter.

id: 1304.8015
title: Imaginary-time nonuniform mesh method for solving the multidimensional Schrodinger equation: Fermionization and melting of quantum Lennard-Jones crystals
authors: Alberto Hernando, Jiri Vanicek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.8015
abstract: An imaginary-time nonuniform mesh method is presented and used to find the first 50 eigenstates and energies of up to five strongly interacting spinless quantum Lennard-Jones particles trapped in a one-dimensional harmonic potential. We show that the use of tailored grids reduces drastically the computational effort needed to diagonalize the Hamiltonian and results in a favorable scaling with dimensionality. Solutions to both bosonic and fermionic counterparts of this strongly interacting system are obtained, the bosonic case clustering as a Tonks-Girardeau crystal exhibiting the phenomenon of fermionization. The numerically exact excited states are used to describe the melting of this crystal at finite temperature.

id: 1304.8053
title: Optical Communication Without Photons
authors: Nicolas Gisin
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.8053
abstract: I analyse a recent quantum communication protocol by Salih et al. that allows one to communicate without any particle carrying the information from the sender to the receiver. I show how this can equally be achieved using classical communication.

id: 1304.8075
title: Exploring the geometry of qutrit state space using symmetric informationally complete probabilities
authors: Gelo Noel M. Tabia, D. M. Appleby
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; v2 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012131 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.8075
abstract: We examine the geometric structure of qutrit state space by identifying the outcome probabilities of symmetric informationally complete (SIC) measurements with quantum states. We categorize the infinitely many qutrit SICs into eight SIC families corresponding to independent orbits of the extended Clifford group. Every SIC can be uniquely identified from a set of geometric invariants that we use to establish several properties of the convex body of qutrits, which include a simple formula describing its extreme points, an expression for the rotation between the probability vectors for distinct qutrit SICs, and a polar equation for its boundary states.

id: 1304.8090
title: Harnessing vacuum forces for quantum sensing of graphene motion
authors: Christine A. Muschik, Simon Moulieras, Adrian Bachtold, Maciej Lewenstein, Frank Koppens, Darrick Chang
comments: To appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 223601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.8090
abstract: Position measurements at the quantum level are vital for many applications, but also challenging. Typically, methods based on optical phase shifts are used, but these methods are often weak and difficult to apply to many materials. An important example is graphene, which is an excellent mechanical resonator due to its small mass and an outstanding platform for nanotechnologies, but is largely transparent. Here, we present a novel detection scheme based upon the strong, dispersive vacuum interactions between a graphene sheet and a quantum emitter. In particular, the mechanical displacement causes strong changes in the vacuum-induced shifts of the transition frequency of the emitter, which can be read out via optical fields. We show that this enables strong quantum squeezing of the graphene position on time scales short compared to the mechanical period.

id: 1304.8096
title: Wigner Crystallization of Single Photons in Cold Rydberg Ensemble
authors: Johannes Otterbach, Matthias Moos, Dominik Muth, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 113001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.8096
abstract: The coupling of weak light fields to Rydberg states of atoms under conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) leads to the formation of Rydberg polaritons which are quasi-particles with tunable effective mass and long-range interactions. Confined to one spatial dimension their low energy physics is that of a moving-frame Luttinger liquid which due to the long-range character of the repulsive interaction can form a Wigner crystal. We calculate the Luttinger $K$ parameter using density-matrix renormalization group (DMRG) simulations and find that under typical slow-light conditions kinetic energy contributions are too strong for crystal formation. However, adiabatically increasing the polariton mass by turning a light pulse into stationary spin excitations allows to generate true crystalline order over a finite length. The dynamics of this process and asymptotic correlations are analyzed in terms of a time-dependent Luttinger theory.

id: 1304.8099
title: Few interacting fermions in one-dimensional harmonic trap
authors: Tomasz Sowi¨½ski, Tobias Grass, Omjyoti Dutta, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033607 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.8099
abstract: We study spin-1/2 fermions, interacting via a two-body contact potential, in a one-dimensional harmonic trap. Applying exact diagonalization, we investigate their behavior at finite interaction strength, and discuss the role of the ground-state degeneracy which occurs for sufficiently strong repulsive interaction. Even low temperature or a completely depolarizing channel may then dramatically influence the system's behavior. We calculate level occupation numbers as signatures of thermalization, and we discuss the mechanisms to break the degeneracy.

id: 1304.8103
title: Geometry of quantum dynamics and optimal control for mixed states
authors: Ole Andersson, Hoshang Heydari
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.8103
abstract: Geometric effects make evolution time vary for different evolution curves that connect the same two quantum states. Thus, it is important to be able to control along which path a quantum state evolve to achieve maximal speed in quantum calculations. In this paper we establish fundamental relations between Hamiltonian dynamics and Riemannian structures on the phase spaces of unitarily evolving finite-level quantum systems. In particular, we show that the Riemannian distance between two density operators equals the infimum of the energy dispersions of all possible evolution curves connecting the two density operators. This means, essentially, that the evolution time is a controllable quantity. The paper also contains two applied sections. First, we give a geometric derivation of the Mandelstam-Tamm estimate for the evolution time between two distinguishable mixed states. Secondly, we show how to equip the Hamiltonians acting on systems whose states are represented by invertible density operators with control parameters, and we formulate conditions for these that, when met, makes the Hamiltonians transport density operators along geodesics.

id: 1304.8128
title: Quantum secret sharing with continuous-variable cluster states
authors: Hoi-Kwan Lau, Christian Weedbrook
comments: v3: Modified abstract and introduction
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042313 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.8128
abstract: We extend the formalism of cluster state quantum secret sharing, as presented in Markham and Sanders [Phys. Rev. A 78, 042309 (2008)] and Keet et al. [Phy. Rev. A 82, 062315 (2010)], to the continuous-variable regime. We show that both classical and quantum information can be shared by distributing continuous-variable cluster states through either public or private channels. We find that the adversary structure is completely denied from the secret if the cluster state is infinitely squeezed, but some secret information would be leaked if a realistic finitely squeezed state is employed. We suggest benchmarks to evaluate the security in the finitely squeezed cases. For the sharing of classical secrets, we borrow techniques from the continuous-variable quantum key distribution to compute the secret sharing rate. For the sharing of quantum states, we estimate the amount of entanglement distilled for teleportation from each cluster state.

id: 1304.0078
title: Surface plasmon polariton induced strong coherent superposition
authors: Sintayehu Tesfa, Ali A. Kamli
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0078
abstract: A strong coherent superposition is shown to be induced between the energy states of a two-level emitter immersed in a surface plasmon polariton evanescently confined to a small metallic ring. It turns out that there is nearly equal chance for the two-level emitter to be found either in the upper or lower energy level at steady state even for a weaker surface plasmon driving strength. This indicates that it is possible to create a qubit that is robust against emitter spontaneous damping rate, which can be applicable in designing a device that can perform certain quantum information processing tasks. In support of this proposal, the photon statistics of the emitted radiation is found to exhibit significant nonclassical features.

id: 1304.0100
title: Entanglement Zoo I: Foundational and Structural Aspects
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0100
abstract: We put forward a general classification for a structural description of the entanglement present in compound entities experimentally violating Bell's inequalities, making use of a new entanglement scheme that we developed recently. Our scheme, although different from the traditional one, is completely compatible with standard quantum theory, and enables quantum modeling in complex Hilbert space for different types of situations. Namely, situations where entangled states and product measurements appear ('customary quantum modeling'), and situations where states and measurements and evolutions between measurements are entangled ('nonlocal box modeling', 'nonlocal non-marginal box modeling'). The role played by Tsirelson's bound and marginal distribution law is emphasized. Specific quantum models are worked out in detail in complex Hilbert space within this new entanglement scheme.

id: 1304.0102
title: Entanglement Zoo II: Examples in Physics and Cognition
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0102
abstract: We have recently presented a general scheme enabling quantum modeling of different types of situations that violate Bell's inequalities. In this paper, we specify this scheme for a combination of two concepts. We work out a quantum Hilbert space model where 'entangled measurements' occur in addition to the expected 'entanglement between the component concepts', or 'state entanglement'. We extend this result to a macroscopic physical entity, the 'connected vessels of water', which maximally violates Bell's inequalities. We enlighten the structural and conceptual analogies between the cognitive and physical situations which are both examples of a nonlocal non-marginal box modeling in our classification.

id: 1304.0104
title: Meaning-focused and Quantum-inspired Information Retrieval
authors: Diederik Aerts, Jan Broekaert, Sandro Sozzo, Tomas Veloz
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0104
abstract: In recent years, quantum-based methods have promisingly integrated the traditional procedures in information retrieval (IR) and natural language processing (NLP). Inspired by our research on the identification and application of quantum structures in cognition, more specifically our work on the representation of concepts and their combinations, we put forward a 'quantum meaning based' framework for structured query retrieval in text corpora and standardized testing corpora. This scheme for IR rests on considering as basic notions, (i) 'entities of meaning', e.g., concepts and their combinations and (ii) traces of such entities of meaning, which is how documents are considered in this approach. The meaning content of these 'entities of meaning' is reconstructed by solving an 'inverse problem' in the quantum formalism, consisting of reconstructing the full states of the entities of meaning from their collapsed states identified as traces in relevant documents. The advantages with respect to traditional approaches, such as Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA), are discussed by means of concrete examples.

id: 1304.0158
title: Relativistic many-body calculation of energies, oscillator strengths, transition rates, lifetimes, polarizabilities, and quadrupole moment of Fr-like Th IV ion
authors: M. S. Safronova, U. I. Safronova
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0158
abstract: Atomic properties of the 24 low-lying ns, np, nd, nf, and ng states in Th IV ion are calculated using the high-precision relativistic all-order method where all single, double, and partial triple excitations of the Dirac-Fock wave functions are included to all orders of perturbation theory. Recommended values are provided for a large number of electric-dipole matrix elements, oscillator strengths, transition rates, and lifetimes. Scalar polarizabilities of the ground and six excited states (5f_j, 6d_j, 7p_j, and 7s), and tensor polarizabilities of the 5f_j, 6d_j, 7p_{3/2} states of Th IV are evaluated. The uncertainties of the recommended values are estimated. These calculations provide recommended values critically evaluated for their accuracy for a number of Th IV atomic properties for use in theoretical modeling as well as planning and analysis of various experiments including development of ultra precise nuclear clock and RESIS studies of actinide ions

id: 1304.0208
title: On the Physical Explanation for Quantum Computational Speedup
authors: Michael E. Cuffaro
comments: Ph.D. Thesis submitted Winter Term 2013 at the University of Western Ontario. NOTE: because it has been compiled from source on the arXiv, this version has some very slight pagination differences as compared with the published version (this http URL). However there are no differences in content whatsoever
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0208
abstract: The aim of this dissertation is to clarify the debate over the explanation of quantum speedup and to submit a tentative resolution to it. In particular, I argue that the physical explanation for quantum speedup is precisely the fact that the phenomenon of quantum entanglement enables a quantum computer to fully exploit the representational capacity of Hilbert space. This is impossible for classical systems, joint states of which must always be representable as product states. Chapter 2 begins with a discussion of the most popular of the candidate physical explanations for quantum speedup: the many worlds explanation. I argue that unlike the neo-Everettian interpretation of quantum mechanics it does not have the conceptual resources required to overcome the `preferred basis objection'. I further argue that the many worlds explanation, at best, can serve as a good description of the physical process which takes place in so-called network-based computation, but that it is incompatible with other models of computation such as cluster state quantum computing. I next consider, in Chapter 3, a common component of most other candidate explanations of quantum speedup: quantum entanglement. I investigate whether entanglement can be said to be a necessary component of any explanation for quantum speedup, and I consider two major purported counter-examples to this claim. I argue that neither of these, in fact, show that entanglement is unnecessary for speedup, and that, on the contrary, we should conclude that it is. In Chapters 4 and 5 I then ask whether entanglement can be said to be sufficient as well. In Chapter 4 I argue that despite a result that seems to indicate the contrary, entanglement, considered as a resource, can be seen as sufficient to enable quantum speedup. Finally, in Chapter 5 I argue that entanglement is sufficient to explain quantum speedup as well.

id: 1304.0262
title: Carnot Cycle at Finite Power: Attainability of Maximal Efficiency
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Karen V. Hovhannisyan, Alexey V. Melkikh, Sasun G. Gevorkian
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables. The published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 050601 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0262
abstract: We want to understand whether and to which extent the maximal (Carnot) efficiency for heat engines can be reached at a finite power. To this end we generalize the Carnot cycle so that it is not restricted to slow processes. We show that for realistic (i.e. not purposefully-designed) engine-bath interactions, the work-optimal engine performing the generalized cycle close to the maximal efficiency has a long cycle time and hence vanishing power. This aspect is shown to relate to the theory of computational complexity. A physical manifestation of the same effect is the Levinthal's paradox in the protein folding problem. The resolution of this paradox for realistic proteins allows to construct engines that can extract at a finite power 40% of the maximally possible work reaching 90% of the maximal efficiency. For purposefully designed engine-bath interactions, the Carnot efficiency is achievable at a large power.

id: 1304.0310
title: The Everett axiom of parallelism
authors: Yury A. Lebedev, Pavel R. Amnuel, Anna Ya. Dulphan
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0310
abstract: In this work we consider the meaningfulness of the concept parallel worlds. To that extent we propose the model of the infinite-dimensionaly multievent space, generating everettics altervers in each point of Minkowski space time. Our research reveals fractal character of such alterverse.

id: 1304.0320
title: Further investigation of the relativistic symmetry by similarity renormalization group
authors: Dong-Peng Li, Shou-Wan Chen, Jian-You Guo
comments: 10pages,12figures, accepted by Physical Review C
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0320
abstract: Following a recent rapid communications[Phys.Rev.C85,021302(R) (2012)], we present more details on the investigation of the relativistic symmetry by use of the similarity renormalization group. By comparing the contributions of the different components in the diagonal Dirac Hamiltonian to the pseudospin splitting, we have found that two components of the dynamical term make similar influence on the pseudospin symmetry. The same case also appears in the spin-orbit interactions. Further, we have checked the influences of every term on the pseudospin splitting and their correlations with the potential parameters for all the available pseudospin partners. The result shows that the spin-orbit interactions always play a role in favor of the pseudospin symmetry, and whether the pseudospin symmetry is improved or destroyed by the dynamical term relating the shape of the potential as well as the quantum numbers of the state. The cause why the pseudospin symmetry becomes better for the levels closer to the continuum is disclosed.

id: 1304.0359
title: Detecting transition radiation from a magnetic moment
authors: Igor P. Ivanov, Dmitry V. Karlovets
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; v2: various language improvements, expanded discussion and references, results unchanged, matches the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 264801 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0359
abstract: Electromagnetic radiation can be emitted not only by particle charges but also by magnetic moments and higher electric and magnetic multipoles. However experimental proofs of this fundamental fact are extremely scarce. In particular, the magnetic moment contribution has never been observed in any form of polarization radiation. Here, we propose to detect it using vortex electrons carrying large orbital angular momentum (OAM) \ell. The relative contribution of the OAM-induced magnetic moment, \ell \hbar \omega/E_e, becomes much larger than the spin-induced contribution \hbar \omega/E_e, and it can be observed experimentally. As a particular example, we consider transition radiation from vortex electrons obliquely incident on an interface between a vacuum and a dispersive medium, in which the magnetic moment contribution manifests itself via a left-right angular asymmetry. For electrons with E_e = 300 keV and \ell = 100-1000, we predict an asymmetry of the order of 0.1%-1%, which could be measured with existing technology. Thus, vortex electrons emerge as a new tool in the physics of electromagnetic radiation.

id: 1304.0389
title: Fano resonances and their control in optomechanics
authors: Kenan Qu, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063813 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0389
abstract: The Fano line profiles, originally discovered in the context of photoionization, have been found to occur in a large class of systems like resonators, metamaterials, plasmonics. We demonstrate the existence of such resonances in cavity optomechanics by identifying the interfering contributions to the fields generated at antiStokes and Stokes frequencies. Unlike the atomic systems, the optomechanical systems provide great flexibility as the width of the resonance is controlled by the coupling field. We further show how the double cavities coupled by a single optomechanical mirror can lead to the splitting of the Fano resonance and how the second cavity can be used to tune the Fano resonances. The Fano resonances are quite sensitive to the decay parameters associated with cavities and the mechanical mirror. Such resonances can be studied by both pump probe experiments as well as via the spectrum of the quantum fluctuations in the output fields.

id: 1304.0410
title: Nonassociativity, Malcev Algebras and String Theory
authors: Murat Gunaydin, Djordje Minic
comments: 33 pages; Latex file; References added, minor changes, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0410
abstract: Nonassociative structures have appeared in the study of D-branes in curved backgrounds. In recent work, string theory backgrounds involving three-form fluxes, where such structures show up, have been studied in more detail. We point out that under certain assumptions these nonassociative structures coincide with nonassociative Malcev algebras which had appeared in the quantum mechanics of systems with non-vanishing three-cocycles, such as a point particle moving in the field of a magnetic charge. We generalize the corresponding Malcev algebras to include electric as well as magnetic charges. These structures find their classical counterpart in the theory of Poisson-Malcev algebras and their generalizations. We also study their connection to Stueckelberg's generalized Poisson brackets that do not obey the Jacobi identity and point out that nonassociative string theory with a fundamental length corresponds to a realization of his goal to find a non-linear extension of quantum mechanics with a fundamental length. Similar nonassociative structures are also known to appear in the cubic formulation of closed string field theory in terms of open string fields, leading us to conjecture a natural string-field theoretic generalization of the AdS/CFT-like (holographic) duality.

id: 1304.0440
title: The quantal algebra and abstract equations of motion
authors: Samir Lipovaca
comments: 10 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0901.0332 by other authors without attribution
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0440
abstract: The quantal algebra combines classical and quantum mechanics into an abstract structurally unified structure. The structure uses two products: one symmetric and one anti-symmetric. The local structure of spacetime is contained in the quantal algebra without having been postulated. We will introduce an abstract derivation concept and generalize classical and quantum mechanics equations of motion to abstract equations of motion in which the anti-symmetric product of the quantal algebra plays a key role. We will express the defining identities of the quantal algebra in terms of the abstract derivation. In this form the first defining identity (the Jacobi identity) is analogous in form to the Bianchi identity in general relativity which is one set of gravitational field equations for the curvature tensor. The identity for the unit element is equivalent to the important property that the metric is covariantly constant. Similarly, the Jacobi identity is analogous in form to the homogeneous Maxwell equations. The anti-symmetric product of the quantal algebra is reflected in the antisymmetry of the electromagnetic tensor.

id: 1304.0442
title: From SU(2) gauge theory to qubits on the fuzzy sphere
authors: Paola Zizzi
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1104.0114
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0442
abstract: We consider a classical pure SU(2) gauge theory, and make an ansatz, which separates the space-temporal degrees of freedom from the internal ones. This ansatz is gauge-invariant but not Lorentz invariant. In a limit case of the ansatz, obtained through a contraction map, and corresponding to a vacuum solution, the SU(2) gauge field reduces to an operator, which is the product of the generator of a global U(1) group times a Pauli matrix. We give a geometrical interpretation of the ansatz and of the contraction map in the framework of principal fiber bundles. Then, we identify the internal degrees of freedom of the gauge field with the non-commutative coordinates of the fuzzy sphere in the fundamental representation and obtain a one qubit state.

id: 1304.0471
title: Newtonian Semiclassical Gravity in the Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber Theory with Matter Density Ontology
authors: Maaneli Derakhshani
comments: 23 pages, no figures. Significant revisions - expanded introduction section, new sections added, several new references added. Submitted to Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0471
abstract: We propose a Newtonian semiclassical gravity theory based on the GRW collapse theory with matter density ontology (GRWm), which we term GRWmN. The theory is proposed because, as we show, the standard Newtonian semiclassical gravity theory based on the Schroedinger-Newton equations does not have a consistent Born rule probability interpretation for gravitationally self-interacting particles and implies gravitational cat states for macroscopic mass superpositions. By contrast, we show that GRWmN has a consistent statistical description of gravitationally self-interacting particles and adequately suppresses the cat states for macroscopic superpositions. Two possible routes to experimentally testing GRWmN are also considered. We conclude with a discussion of possible variants of GRWmN, what a general relativistic extension would involve, and various objections that might be raised against semiclassical gravity theories like GRWmN.

id: 1304.0497
title: Wave theories of non-laminar charged particle beams: from quantum to thermal regime
authors: Renato Fedele, Fatema Tanjia, Dusan Jovanovic, Sergio De Nicola, Concetta Ronsivalle
comments: Talk presented at International Topical Conference on Plasma Science: Advanced Plasma Concepts, 24-28 September, Faro, Portugal Submitted to Journal of Plasma Physics
journal: 
subjects: Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0497
abstract: The standard classical description of non-laminar charge particle beams in paraxial approximation is extended to the context of two wave theories. The first theory is the so-called Thermal Wave Model (TWM) that interprets the paraxial thermal spreading of the beam particles as the analog of the quantum diffraction. The other theory, hereafter called Quantum Wave Model (QWM), that takes into account the individual quantum nature of the single beam particle (uncertainty principle and spin) and provides the collective description of the beam transport in the presence of the quantum paraxial diffraction. QWM can be applied to beams that are sufficiently cold to allow the particles to manifest their individual quantum nature but sufficiently warm to make overlapping-less the single-particle wave functions. In both theories, the propagation of the beam transport in plasmas or in vacuo is provided by fully similar set of nonlinear and nonlocal governing equations, where in the case of TWM the Compton wavelength (fundamental emittance) is replaced by the beam thermal emittance. In both models, the beam transport in the presence of the self-fields (space charge and inductive effects) is governed by a suitable nonlinear nonlocal 2D Schroedinger equation that is used to obtain the envelope beam equation in quantum and quantum-like regimes, respectively. An envelope equation is derived for both TWM and QWM regimes. In TWM we recover the well known Sacherer equation whilst, in QWM we obtain the evolution equation of the single-particle spot size, i.e., single quantum ray spot in the transverse plane (Compton regime). We show that such a quantum evolution equation contains the same information carried out by an evolution equation for the beam spot size (description of the beam as a whole). This is done by defining the lowest QWM state reachable by a system of overlapping-less Fermions.

id: 1304.0511
title: Diffractive Effects and General Boundary Conditions in Casimir Energy
authors: Dimitra Karabali, V.P. Nair
comments: 31 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0511
abstract: The effect of edges and apertures on the Casimir energy of an arrangement of plates and boundaries can be calculated in terms of an effective nonlocal lower-dimensional field theory that lives on the boundary. This formalism has been developed in a number of previous papers and applied to specific examples with Dirichlet boundary conditions. Here we generalize the formalism to arbitrary boundary conditions. As a specific example, the geometry of a flat plate and a half-plate placed parallel to it is considered for a number of different boundary conditions and the area-dependent and edge dependent contributions to the Casimir energy are evaluated. While our results agree with known results for those special cases (such as the Dirichlet and Neumann limits) for which other methods of calculation have been used, our formalism is suitable for general boundary conditions, especially for the diffractive effects.

id: 1304.0554
title: Exotic phases of interacting p-band bosons
authors: F. H¨¦bert, Zi Cai, V. G. Rousseau, Congjun Wu, R. T. Scalettar, G. G. Batrouni
comments: 8 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 224505 (2013) [7 pages]
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0554
abstract: We study a model of interacting bosons that occupy the first excited p-band states of a two-dimensional optical lattice. In contrast to the much studied single band Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian, this more complex model allows for non-trivial superfluid phases associated with condensation at non-zero momentum and staggered order of the orbital angular momentum in addition to the superfluid-Mott insulator transition. More specifically, we observe staggered orbital angular momentum order in the Mott phase at commensurate filling and superfluidity at all densities. We also observe a transition between the staggered angular momentum superfluid phase and a striped superfluid, with an alternation of the phase of the superfluid along one direction. The transition between these two phases was observed in a recent experiment, which is then qualitatively well described by our model.

id: 1304.0679
title: N-density representability and the optimal transport limit of the Hohenberg-Kohn functional
authors: Gero Friesecke, Christian B. Mendl, Brendan Pass, Codina Cotar, Claudia Kl¨¹ppelberg
comments: 12 pages
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 164109 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0679
abstract: We derive and analyze a hierarchy of approximations to the strongly correlated limit of the Hohenberg-Kohn functional. These "density representability approximations" are obtained by first noting that in the strongly correlated limit, N-representability of the pair density reduces to the requirement that the pair density must come from a symmetric N-point density. One then relaxes this requirement to the existence of a representing symmetric k-point density with k < N. The approximate energy can be computed by simulating a fictitious k-electron system. We investigate the approximations by deriving analytically exact results for a 2-site model problem, and by incorporating them into a self-consistent Kohn-Sham calculation for small atoms. We find that the low order representability conditions already capture the main part of the correlations.

id: 1304.0709
title: Free-space communication through turbulence: a comparison of plane-wave and orbital-angular-momentum encodings
authors: Mohammad Mirhosseini, Brandon Rodenburg, Mehul Malik, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0709
abstract: Free-space communication allows one to use spatial mode encoding, which is susceptible to the effects of diffraction and turbulence. Here, we discuss the optimum communication modes of a system while taking such effects into account. We construct a free-space communication system that encodes information onto the plane-wave (PW) modes of light. We study the performance of this system in the presence of atmospheric turbulence, and compare it with previous results for a system employing orbital-angular-momentum (OAM) encoding. We are able to show that the PW basis is the preferred basis set for communication through atmospheric turbulence for a large Fresnel number system. This study has important implications for high-dimensional quantum key distribution systems.

id: 1304.0717
title: Fractional quantum Hall states in lattices: Local models and physical implementation
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, German Sierra, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 7+5 pages, 5+1 figures, v2: references added
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2864 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0717
abstract: The fractional quantum Hall (FQH) effect is one of the most striking phenomena in condensed matter physics. It is described by a simple Laughlin wavefunction and has been thoroughly studied both theoretically and experimentally. In lattice systems, however, such an effect has not been observed, there are few simple models displaying it, and only few mechanisms leading to it are known. Here we propose a new way of constructing lattice Hamiltonians with local interactions and FQH like ground states. In particular, we obtain a spin 1/2 model with a bosonic Laughlin like ground state, displaying a variety of topological features. We also demonstrate how such a model naturally emerges out of a Fermi-Hubbard like model at half filling, in which the kinetic energy part possesses bands with nonzero Chern number, and we show how this model can be implemented in an optical lattice setup with present technology.

id: 1304.0762
title: Entanglement in Theory Space
authors: Masahito Yamazaki
comments: v2: 6 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Europhys.Lett.103:21002,2013
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0762
abstract: We propose a new concept of entanglement for quantum systems: entanglement in theory space. This is defined by decomposing a theory into two by an un-gauging procedure. We provide two examples where this newly-introduced entanglement is closely related with conventional geometric entropies: deconstruction and AGT-type correspondence.

id: 1304.0783
title: The hidden symmetry-breaking picture of symmetry-protected topological order
authors: Dominic V. Else, Stephen D. Bartlett, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, comments welcome; v2 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 085114 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0783
abstract: We generalize the hidden symmetry-breaking picture of symmetry-protected topological (SPT) order developed by Kennedy and Tasaki in the context of the Haldane phase. Our generalization applies to a wide class of SPT phases in one-dimensional spin chains, protected by an on-site representation of a finite abelian group. This generalization takes the form of a non-local unitary map that relates local symmetry-respecting Hamiltonians in an SPT phase to local Hamiltonians in a symmetry-broken phase. Using this unitary, we establish a relation between the two-point correlation functions that characterize fully symmetry-broken phases with the string-order correlation functions that characterise the SPT phases, therefore establishing the perspective in these systems that SPT phases are characterised by hidden symmetry-breaking. Our generalization is also applied to systems with continuous symmetries, including SO(2k+1) and SU(k).

id: 1304.0889
title: Dirac fields in curved spacetime as Fermi-Hubbard model with non unitary tunnelings
authors: Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Beno?t Gr¨¦maud
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. New results and figures added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48 (2015) 165001
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0889
abstract: In this article we show that a Dirac Hamiltonian in a curved background spacetime can be interpreted, when discretized, as a tight binding Fermi-Hubbard model with non unitary tunnelings. We find the form of the nonunitary tunneling matrices in terms of the metric tensor. The main motivation behind this exercise is the feasibility of such Hamiltonians by means of laser assisted tunnelings in cold atomic experiments. The mapping thus provide a physical interpretation of such Hamiltonians. We demonstrate the use of the mapping on the example of time dependent metric in 2+1 dimensions. Studying the spin dynamics, we find qualitative agreement with known theoretical predictions, namely the particle pair creation in expanding universe.

id: 1304.0918
title: Energy and contact of the one-dimensional Fermi polaron at zero and finite temperature
authors: E. V. H. Doggen, J. J. Kinnunen
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, 4 pages of supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 025302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0918
abstract: We use the T-matrix approach for studying highly polarized homogeneous Fermi gases in one dimension with repulsive or attractive contact interactions. Using this approach, we compute ground state energies and values for the contact parameter that show excellent agreement with exact and other numerical methods at zero temperature, even in the strongly interacting regime. Furthermore, we derive an exact expression for the value of the contact parameter in one dimension at zero temperature. The model is then extended and used for studying the temperature dependence of ground state energies and the contact parameter.

id: 1304.0980
title: Quantum Cryptography Using Various Reversible Quantum Logic Gates in WSNs
authors: S. Ahmed, N. Javaid, S. H. Bouk, A. Javaid, M. A. Khan, Z. A. Khan
comments: Journal of Basic and Applied Scientific Research (JBASR), 2013
journal: 
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.0980
abstract: As sensor nodes are deployed anywhere in a wireless sensor network, hence their communication can be easily monitored. In these networks, message protection and node identification are very issues. Hence, security of large scale such networks requires efficient key distribution and management mechanisms. Quantum cryptography and particularly quantum key distribution is such a technique that allocates secure keys only for short distances. While not completely secure, it offers huge advantages over traditional methods by the use of entanglement swapping and quantum teleportation. Reversible logic gates like CNOT, Toffoli, Fredkin etc. are of basic importance in Quantum Computing. In our research, we adopted a EPR-pair allocation scheme in terms of these quantum gates to overcome the susceptibility caused by malicious nodes. As the qubits stored in a sensor node can be used only once and cannot be duplicated, hence risk of information leakage reduced even if the node are compromised.

id: 1304.1003
title: The strange (hi)story of particles and waves
authors: H. Dieter Zeh
comments: My view of the quantum theory - v2-v12: various comments and references added, two new sections, new abstract - v12: 1 figure, 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1003
abstract: Attempt of a non-technical but conceptually consistent presentation of modern quantum theory in a historical context. While the first part is written for a general readership, Sect. 5 may appear provocative. I argue that the single-particle wave functions of quantum mechanics have to be correctly interpreted as field modes that are "occupied once" (first excited states of the corresponding quantum oscillators in the case of a boson field). Multiple excitations lead to apparent many-particle wave functions, while the quantum state proper would be defined by a wave function(al) on the configuration space of certain fundamental fields or on another, as yet elusive, fundamental basis. -- Sects. 1 and 2 are meant as a brief overview of the early history - neglecting many details. Sects. 3 and 4 concentrate on some (in my opinion very essential) properties of non-relativistic quantum mechanics that are often insufficiently explained in textbooks. Sect. 5 describes how this formalism would have to be generalized into its relativistic form (QFT), although this program mostly fails in practice for interacting fields because of the complicated entanglement that would arise between too many degrees of freedom. This may explain why QFT is generally used in a semi-phenomenological way that is often misunderstood as a fundamentally new theory. Sect. 6 describes the further generalization of the Schr\"odinger picture to quantum gravity and quantum cosmology, while Sect. 7 concludes the paper.

id: 1304.1257
title: All-electrically reading out and initializing topological qubits with quantum dots
authors: Wei Chen, Zheng-Yuan Xue, Z. D. Wang, R. Shen, D. Y. Xing
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1257
abstract: We analyze the reading and initialization of a topological qubit encoded by Majorana fermions in one-dimensional semiconducting nanowires, weakly coupled to a single level quantum dot (QD). It is shown that when the Majorana fermions are fused by tuning gate voltage, the topological qubit can be read out directly through the occupation of the QD in an energy window. The initialization of the qubit can also be realized via adjusting the gate voltage on the QD, with the total fermion parity conserved. As a result, both reading and initialization processes can be achieved in an all-electrical way.

id: 1304.1283
title: Heat transport through a quantum Brownian harmonic chain beyond the weak-coupling regime: An exact treatment
authors: Ilki Kim
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1283
abstract: We consider a linear chain of quantum harmonic oscillators, in which the number of the individual oscillators is given by an arbitrary number N, and each oscillator is coupled at an arbitrary strength kappa to its nearest neighbors ("intra-coupling"), as well as the two end oscillators of the chain are coupled at an arbitrary strength c_nu to two separate baths at arbitrarily different temperatures, respectively. We derive an exact closed expression for the steady-state heat current flowing from a hot bath through the chain to a cold bath, in the Drude-Ullersma damping model going beyond the Markovian damping. This allows us to explore the behavior of heat current relative to the intra-coupling strength as a control parameter, especially in pursuit of the heat power amplification. Then it turns out that in the weak-coupling regime (kappa, c_nu << 1), the heat current is small, as expected, and almost independent of chain length N, hence violating Fourier's law of heat conduction; this is consistent to the earlier results obtained within the rotating wave approximation for the intra-coupling as well as in the Born-Markov approximation for the chain-bath coupling. Beyond the weak-coupling regime, on the other hand, we typically observe that with increase of the intra-coupling strength the heat current is gradually amplified, and reaches its maximum value at some specific coupling strength kappa_R "resonant" to a given chain-bath coupling strength. Also, the behavior of heat current versus chain length appears typically in such a way that the magnitude of current reaches its maximum with N=1 and then gradually decreases with increase of the chain length, being in fact almost N-independent in the range of N large enough. As a result, Fourier's law proves violated also in this regime.

id: 1304.1284
title: Dynamics of Antiferromagnets Driven by Spin Current
authors: Ran Cheng, Qian Niu
comments: 5 pages (superlink for supplemental material is provided)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 081105(R) (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1284
abstract: When a spin-polarized current flows through a ferromagnetic (FM) metal, angular momentum is transferred to the background magnetization via spin-transfer torques. In antiferromagnetic (AFM) materials, however, the corresponding problem is unsolved. We derive microscopically the dynamics of an AFM system driven by spin current generated by an attached FM polarizer, and find that the spin current exerts a driving force on the local staggered order parameter. The mechanism does not rely on the conservation of spin angular momentum, nor does it depend on the induced FM moments on top the AFM background. Two examples are studied: (i) A domain wall is accelerated to a terminal velocity by purely adiabatic effect where the Walker's break-down is avoided; and (ii) Spin injection modifies the AFM resonance frequency, and spin current injection triggers spin wave instability of local moments above a threshold.

id: 1304.1323
title: Bulk-edge correspondence in fractional Chern insulators
authors: Zhao Liu, D.L. Kovrizhin, Emil J. Bergholtz
comments: A study of fractional Chern insulators on cylinders using DMRG and exact diagonalization. 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 081106(R) (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1323
abstract: It has been recently realized that strong interactions in topological Bloch bands give rise to the appearance of novel states of matter. Here we study connections between these systems -- fractional Chern insulators and the fractional quantum Hall states -- via generalization of a gauge-fixed Wannier-Qi construction in the cylinder geometry. Our setup offers a number of important advantages compared to the earlier exact diagonalization studies on a torus. Most notably, it gives access to edge states and to a single-cut orbital entanglement spectrum, hence to the physics of bulk-edge correspondence. It is also readily implemented in the state-of-the-art density matrix renormalisation group method that allows for numerical simulations of significantly larger systems. We demonstrate our general approach on examples of flat-band models on ruby and kagome lattices at bosonic filling fractions $\nu=1/2$ and $\nu=1$, which show the signatures of (non)-Abelian phases, and establish the correspondence between the physics of edge states and the entanglement in the bulk. Notably, we find that the non-Abelian $\nu=1$ phase can be stabilized by purely on-site interactions in the presence of a confining potential.

id: 1304.1328
title: Density-functional theory for the spin-1 bosons in a one-dimensional harmonic trap
authors: Hongmei Wang, Yunbo Zhang
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1328
abstract: We propose the density-functional theory for one-dimensional harmonically trapped spin-1 bosons in the ground state with repulsive density-density interaction and anti-ferromagnetic spin-exchange interaction. The density distributions of spin singlet paired bosons and polarized bosons with different total polarization for various interaction parameters are obtained by solving the Kohn-Sham equations which are derived based on the local density approximation and the Bethe ansatz exact results for homogeneous system. Non-monotonicity of the central densities is attributed to the competition between the density interaction and spin-exchange. The results reveal the phase separation of the paired and polarized bosons, the density profiles of which respectively approach the Tonks-Girardeau gases of Bose-Bose pairs and scalar bosons in the case of strong interaction. We give the R-P phase diagram at strong interaction and find the critical polarization, which paves the way to direct observe the exotic singlet pairing in spinor gas experimentally.

id: 1304.1339
title: Geometric Entanglement in Topologically Ordered States
authors: Roman Orus, Tzu-Chieh Wei, Oliver Buerschaper, Maarten Van den Nest
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures, 1 table, revised version to appear in NJP. This paper supersedes the results in arXiv:1108.1537
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 013015 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1339
abstract: Here we investigate the connection between topological order and the geometric entanglement, as measured by the logarithm of the overlap between a given state and its closest product state of blocks. We do this for a variety of topologically-ordered systems such as the toric code, double semion, color code, and quantum double models. As happens for the entanglement entropy, we find that for sufficiently large block sizes the geometric entanglement is, up to possible sub-leading corrections, the sum of two contributions: a bulk contribution obeying a boundary law times the number of blocks, and a contribution quantifying the underlying pattern of long-range entanglement of the topologically-ordered state. This topological contribution is also present in the case of single-spin blocks in most cases, and constitutes an alternative characterisation of topological order for these quantum states based on a multipartite entanglement measure. In particular, we see that the topological term for the 2D color code is twice as much as the one for the toric code, in accordance with recent renormalization group arguments. Motivated by this, we also derive a general formalism to obtain upper- and lower-bounds to the geometric entanglement of states with a non-Abelian symmetry, and which we use to analyse quantum double models. Furthermore, we also analyse the robustness of the topological contribution using renormalization and perturbation theory arguments, as well as a numerical estimation for small systems. Some of our results rely on the ability to disentangle single sites from the system, which is always possible in our framework. Aditionally, we relate our results to the relative entropy of entanglement in topological systems, and discuss some tensor network numerical approaches that could be used to extract the topological contribution for large systems beyond exactly-solvable models.

id: 1304.1573
title: Entanglement entropy and macroscopic quantum states with dipolar bosons in a triple-well potential
authors: L. Dell'Anna, G. Mazzarella, V. Penna, L. Salasnich
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053620 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1573
abstract: We study interacting dipolar atomic bosons in a triple-well potential within a ring geometry. This system is shown to be equivalent to a three-site Bose-Hubbard model. We analyze the ground state of dipolar bosons by varying the effective on-site interaction. This analysis is performed both numerically and analytically by using suitable coherent-state representations of the ground state. The latter exhibits a variety of forms ranging from the su(3) coherent state in the delocalization regime to a macroscopic cat-like state with fully localized populations, passing for a coexistence regime where the ground state displays a mixed character. We characterize the quantum correlations of the ground state from the bi-partition perspective. We calculate both numerically and analytically (within the previous coherent-state representation) the single-site entanglement entropy which, among various interesting properties, exhibits a maximum value in correspondence to the transition from the cat-like to the coexistence regime. In the latter case, we show that the ground-state mixed form corresponds, semiclassically, to an energy exhibiting two almost-degenerate minima.

id: 1304.1668
title: Reconciling quantum trajectories and stationary quantum distributions in single-photon polarization states
authors: A. Luis, A. S. Sanz
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063844 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1668
abstract: The question of the representation of quantum stationary partially polarized waves as random superpositions of different polarization ellipses is addressed. To this end, the Bohmian formulation of quantum mechanics is considered and extended to quantum optical polarization. As is shown, this approach properly combines definite time-evolving trajectories with rigorous stationary quantum distributions via the topology displayed by the associated phase field.

id: 1304.1709
title: Resonance Interaction Induced by Metal Surfaces Catalyses Atom Pair Breakage
authors: Mathias Bostr?m, Clas Persson, Barry W. Ninham, Patrick Norman, Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 044701 (2013)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1709
abstract: We present the theory for retarded resonance interaction between two identical atoms at arbitrary positions near a metal surface. The dipole-dipole resonance interaction force that binds isotropically excited atom pairs together in free space may turn repulsive close to an ideal (totally reflecting) metal surface. On the other hand, close to an infinitely permeable surface it may turn more attractive. We illustrate numerically how the dipole-dipole resonance interaction between two oxygen atoms near a metal surface may provide a repulsive energy of the same order of magnitude as the ground-state binding energy of an oxygen molecule. As a complement we also present results from density-functional theory.

id: 1304.1745
title: Nonequilibrium dynamics in an optical transition from a neutral quantum dot to a correlated many-body state
authors: F. Haupt, S. Smolka, M. Hanl, W. W¨¹ster, J. Miguel-Sanchez, A. Weichselbaum, J. von Delft, A. Imamoglu
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 161304(R) (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1745
abstract: We investigate the effect of many-body interactions on the optical absorption spectrum of a charge-tunable quantum dot coupled to a degenerate electron gas. A constructive Fano interference between an indirect path, associated with an intra dot exciton generation followed by tunneling, and a direct path, associated with the ionization of a valence-band quantum dot electron, ensures the visibility of the ensuing Fermi-edge singularity despite weak absorption strength. We find good agreement between experiment and renormalization group theory, but only when we generalize the Anderson impurity model to include a static hole and a dynamic dot-electron scattering potential. The latter highlights the fact that an optically active dot acts as a tunable quantum impurity, enabling the investigation of a new dynamic regime of Fermi-edge physics.

id: 1304.1797
title: On magnetic-field-induced dissipationless electric current in helicoidal graphene nanoribbons
authors: M. N. Chernodub
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to an error; a new version is planned
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1797
abstract: We argue that twisted (helicoidal) graphene nanoribbons may support dissipationless electric current in the presence of static uniform magnetic field. The non-resistive charge transfer in this parity-odd system should be enhanced by thermal fluctuations.

id: 1304.1910
title: Non-equilibrium dynamics of a system with Quantum Frustration
authors: Heiner Kohler, Andreas Hackl, Stefan Kehrein
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1910
abstract: Using flow equations, equilibrium and non-equilibrium dynamics of a two-level system are investigated, which couples via non-commuting components to two independent oscillator baths. In equilibrium the two-level energy splitting is protected when the TLS is coupled symmetrically to both bath. A critical asymmetry angle separates the localized from the delocalized phase. On the other hand, real-time decoherence of a non-equilibrium initial state is for a generic initial state faster for a coupling to two baths than for a single bath.

id: 1304.1944
title: Symbolic Arithmetic and Integer Factorization
authors: Samuel J. Lomonaco
comments: 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: Number Theory (math.NT); Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1944
abstract: In this paper, we create a systematic and automatic procedure for transforming the integer factorization problem into the problem of solving a system of Boolean equations. Surprisingly, the resulting system of Boolean equations takes on a "life of its own" and becomes a new type of integer, which we call a generic integer. We then proceed to use the newly found algebraic structure of the ring of generic integers to create two new integer factoring algorithms, called respectively the Boolean factoring (BF) algorithm, and the multiplicative Boolean factoring (MBF) algorithm. Although these two algorithms are not competitive with current classical integer factoring algorithms, it is hoped that they will become stepping stones to creating much faster and more competitive algorithms, and perhaps be precursors of a new quantum algorithm for integer factoring.

id: 1304.1947
title: A high-power 626 nm diode laser system for Beryllium ion trapping
authors: H. Ball, M. W. Lee, S. D. Gensemer, M. J. Biercuk
comments: Related manuscripts available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1947
abstract: We describe a high-power, frequency-tunable, external cavity diode laser (ECDL) system near 626 nm useful for laser cooling of trapped $^9$Be$^+$ ions. A commercial single-mode laser diode with rated power output of 170 mW at 635 nm is cooled to $\approx - 31$ C, and a single longitudinal mode is selected via the Littrow configuration. In our setup, involving multiple stages of thermoelectric cooling, we are able to obtain $\approx$130 mW near 626 nm, sufficient for efficient frequency doubling to the required Doppler cooling wavelengths near 313 nm in ionized Beryllium. In order to improve nonlinear frequency conversion efficiency, we achieve larger useful power via injection locking of a slave laser. In this way the entirety of the slave output power is available for frequency doubling, while analysis may be performed on the master output. We believe that this simple laser system addresses a key need in the ion trapping community and dramatically reduces the cost and complexity associated with Beryllium ion trapping experiments.

id: 1304.2066
title: Inconsistent thermostatistics and negative absolute temperatures
authors: J?rn Dunkel, Stefan Hilbert
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure; comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2066
abstract: A considerable body of experimental and theoretical work claims the existence of negative absolute temperatures in spin systems and ultra-cold quantum gases. Here, we clarify that such findings can be attributed to the use of a popular yet inconsistent entropy definition, which violates fundamental thermodynamic relations and fails to produce sensible results for simple analytically tractable classical and quantum systems. Within a mathematically consistent thermodynamic formalism, based on an entropy concept originally derived by Gibbs, absolute temperature remains positive even for systems with bounded spectrum. We address spurious arguments against the Gibbs formalism and comment briefly on heat engines with efficiencies greater than one.

id: 1304.2117
title: Optical addressing of an individual erbium ion in silicon
authors: Chunming Yin, Milos Rancic, Gabriele G. de Boo, Nikolas Stavrias, Jeffrey C. McCallum, Matthew J. Sellars, Sven Rogge
comments: Corrected the third affiliation. Corrected one cross-reference of "Fig. 3b" to "Fig. 3c". Corrected the caption of Fig. 3a by changing (+-)1 to 0
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2117
abstract: The detection of electron spins associated with single defects in solids is a critical operation for a range of quantum information and measurement applications currently under development. To date, it has only been accomplished for two centres in crystalline solids: phosphorus in silicon using electrical readout based on a single electron transistor (SET) and nitrogen-vacancy centres in diamond using optical readout. A spin readout fidelity of about 90% has been demonstrated with both electrical readout and optical readout, however, the thermal limitations of the electrical readout and the poor photon collection efficiency of the optical readout hinder achieving the high fidelity required for quantum information applications. Here we demonstrate a hybrid approach using optical excitation to change the charge state of the defect centre in a silicon-based SET, conditional on its spin state, and then detecting this change electrically. The optical frequency addressing in high spectral resolution conquers the thermal broadening limitation of the previous electrical readout and charge sensing avoids the difficulties of efficient photon collection. This is done with erbium in silicon and has the potential to enable new architectures for quantum information processing devices and to dramatically increase the range of defect centres that can be exploited. Further, the efficient electrical detection of the optical excitation of single sites in silicon is a major step in developing an interconnect between silicon and optical based quantum computing technologies.

id: 1304.2171
title: Magnetization transport in spin ladders and next-nearest-neighbor chains
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.B 88, 205135 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2171
abstract: We study magnetization transport at high temperatures in several spin ladder systems as well as in next-nearest-neighbor coupled spin chains. In the integrable ladder considered we analytically show that the transport is ballistic in sectors with nonzero average magnetization, while numerical simulations of a nonequilibrium stationary setting indicate an anomalous transport in the zero magnetization (half-filling) sector. For other systems, isotropic Heisenberg ladder and spin chains, showing eigenlevel repulsion typical of quantum chaotic systems, numerical simulations indicate diffusive transport.

id: 1304.2303
title: Altered Maxwell equations in the length gauge
authors: H. R. Reiss
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2303
abstract: The length gauge uses a scalar potential to describe a laser field, thus treating it as a longitudinal field rather than as a transverse field. This distinction is revealed in the fact that the Maxwell equations that relate to the length gauge are not the same as those for transverse fields. In particular, a source term is necessary in the length-gauge Maxwell equations, whereas the Coulomb-gauge description of plane waves possesses the basic property of transverse fields that they propagate with no source terms at all. This difference is shown to be importantly consequential in some previously unremarked circumstances; and it explains why the G\"oppert-Mayer gauge transformation does not provide the security that might be expected of full gauge equivalence.

id: 1304.2402
title: On equilibration and coarsening in the quantum O(N) model at infinite $N$
authors: Anushya Chandran, Arun Nanduri, S.S.Gubser, S.L.Sondhi
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2402
abstract: The quantum O(N) model in the infinite $N$ limit is a paradigm for symmetry-breaking. Qualitatively, its phase diagram is an excellent guide to the equilibrium physics for more realistic values of $N$ in varying spatial dimensions ($d>1$). Here we investigate the physics of this model out of equilibrium, specifically its response to global quenches starting in the disordered phase. If the model were to exhibit equilibration, the late time state could be inferred from the finite temperature phase diagram. In the infinite $N$ limit, we show that not only does the model not lead to equilibration on account of an infinite number of conserved quantities, it also does \emph{not} relax to a generalized Gibbs ensemble consistent with these conserved quantities. Nevertheless, we \emph{still} find that the late time states following quenches bear strong signatures of the equilibrium phase diagram. Notably, we find that the model exhibits coarsening to a non-equilibrium critical state only in dimensions $d>2$, that is, if the equilibrium phase diagram contains an ordered phase at non-zero temperatures.

id: 1304.2413
title: Multielectron High Harmonic Generation: simple man on a complex plane
authors: Olga Smirnova, Misha Ivanov
comments: 55 pages, 16 figures, Book Chapter
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2413
abstract: From the famous classical "simple man" model to the recent multichannel model for polyatomic molecules, this tutorial will guide you through the several landmarks in our understanding of high harmonic generation and high harmonic spectroscopy. Our goal was to provide recipes and insights for modelling the harmonic response in various regimes, from the single active electron regime typical for noble gas atoms to the laser-driven attosecond hole dynamics in polyatomics. We have tried to pay particular attention to both simple recipes and their limitations, including the connection of real-valued classical and complex-valued quantum times and velocities. In addition to physical pictures, general approaches and their practical realizations, we have also tried to discuss some of the sticky technical issues, such as the possibility to factorize high harmonic response into the three steps of ionization, propagation and recombination and practical ways to treat strong field ionization, search for the saddle points of multi-dimensional integrals, deal with poles arising in the quantum-mechanical integrands, remove divergences appearing in approximate saddle point expressions, etc.

id: 1304.2443
title: Storage of electromagnetic waves in a metamaterial that mimics electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: Toshihiro Nakanishi, Takehiro Otani, Yasuhiro Tamayama, Masao Kitano
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures (Rapid Communication in Phys. Rev. B)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 161110(R) (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2443
abstract: We propose a method for dynamically controlling the properties of a metamaterial that mimics electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) by introducing varactor diodes to manipulate the structural symmetry of the metamaterial. Dynamic modulation of the EIT property enables the storage and retrieval of electromagnetic waves. We confirmed that the electromagnetic waves were stored and released, while maintaining the phase distribution in the propagating direction.

id: 1304.2491
title: Measurement of collisions between rubidium atoms and optically dark rubidium ions
authors: Seunghyun Lee, K. Ravi, S. A. Rangwala
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2491
abstract: We measure the collision rate coefficient between laser cooled Rubidium (Rb) atoms in a magneto-optical trap (MOT) and optically dark Rb+ ions in an overlapping Paul trap. In such a mixture, the ions are created from the MOT atoms and allowed to accumulate in the ion trap, which results in a significant reduction in the number of steady state MOT atoms. A theoretical rate equation model is developed to describe the evolution of the MOT atom number, due to ionization and ion-atom collision, and derive an expression for the ion-atom collision rate coefficient. The loss of MOT atoms is studied systematically, by sequentially switching on the various mechanisms in the experiment. Combining the measurements with the model allows the direct determination of the ion-atom collision rate coefficient. Finally the scope of the experimental technique developed here is discussed.

id: 1304.2555
title: Quantum critical scaling of fidelity in BCS-like model
authors: Mariusz Adamski, Janusz Jedrzejewski, Taras Krokhmalskii
comments: 26 pages, 30 figures. Added a table summarizing results. Additional comments in figures captions. Clarified some arguments. Added citations. Corrected typos
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P07001
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2555
abstract: We study scaling of the ground-state fidelity in neighborhoods of quantum critical points in a model of interacting spinfull fermions - a BCS-like model. Due to the exact diagonalizability of the model, in one and higher dimensions, scaling of the ground-state fidelity can be analyzed numerically with great accuracy, not only for small systems but also for macroscopic ones, together with the crossover region between them. Additionally, in one-dimensional case we have been able to derive a number of analytical formulae for fidelity and show that they accurately fit our numerical results; these results are reported in the article. Besides regular critical points and their neighborhoods, where well-known scaling laws are obeyed, there is the multi-critical point and critical points in its proximity where anomalous scaling behavior is found. We consider also scaling of fidelity in neighborhoods of critical points where fidelity oscillates strongly as the system size or the chemical potential is varied. Our results for a one-dimensional version of a BCS-like model are compared with those obtained by Rams and Damski in similar studies of a quantum spin chain - an anisotropic XY model in transverse magnetic field.

id: 1304.2613
title: Rerouting Excitation Transfer in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson Complex
authors: Guang-Yin Chen, Neill Lambert, Che-Ming Li, Yueh-Nan Chen, Franco Nori
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 032120 (2013)
subjects: Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2613
abstract: We investigate, using the Hierarchy method, the entanglement and the excitation transfer efficiency of the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex under two different local modifications: the suppression of transitions between particular sites and localized changes to the protein environment. We find that inhibiting the connection between the site-5 and site-6, or disconnecting site-5 from the complex completely, leads to an dramatic enhancement of the entanglement between site-6 and site-7. Similarly, the transfer efficiency actually increases if site-5 is disconnected from the complex entirely. We further show that if site-5 and site-7 are conjointly removed, the efficiency falls. This suggests that while not contributing to the transport efficiency in a normal complex, site-5 introduces a redundant transport route in case of damage to site-7. Our results suggest an overall robustness of excitation energy transfer in the FMO complex under mutations, local defects, and other abnormal situations.

id: 1304.2640
title: Charge Relaxation in a Single Electron Si/SiGe Double Quantum Dot
authors: K. Wang, C. Payette, Y. Dovzhenko, P. W. Deelman, J. R. Petta
comments: Related papers at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 046801 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2640
abstract: We measure the interdot charge relaxation time T_1 of a single electron trapped in an accumulation mode Si/SiGe double quantum dot. The energy level structure of the charge qubit is determined using photon assisted tunneling, which reveals the presence of a low lying excited state. We systematically measure T_1 as a function of detuning and interdot tunnel coupling and show that it is tunable over four orders of magnitude, with a maximum of 45 microseconds for our device configuration. Measured relaxation times are consistent with a phonon mediated energy relaxation process and indicate that low lying excited states may have important implications in the development of silicon spin qubits.

id: 1304.2662
title: Hierarchical Fractal Weyl Laws for Chaotic Resonance States in Open Mixed Systems
authors: Martin J. K?rber, Matthias Michler, Arnd B?cker, Roland Ketzmerick
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 114102 (2013)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2662
abstract: In open chaotic systems the number of long-lived resonance states obeys a fractal Weyl law, which depends on the fractal dimension of the chaotic saddle. We study the generic case of a mixed phase space with regular and chaotic dynamics. We find a hierarchy of fractal Weyl laws, one for each region of the hierarchical decomposition of the chaotic phase-space component. This is based on our observation of hierarchical resonance states localizing on these regions. Numerically this is verified for the standard map and a hierarchical model system.

id: 1304.2674
title: All electrically controlled quantum gates for single heavy hole spin qubits
authors: P. Szumniak, S. Bednarek, J. Paw?owski, B. Partoens
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2674
abstract: In this paper, several nanodevices which realize basic single heavy hole qubit operations are proposed and supported by time dependent self consistent Poisson-Schr\"{o}dinger calculations using a four band heavy hole-light hole model. In particular we propose a set of nanodevices which can act as Pauli X, Y, Z quantum gates and as a gate that acts similar as a Hadamard gate (i.e. it creates a balanced superposition of basis states but with an additional phase factor) on the heavy hole spin qubit. We also present the design and simulation of a gated semiconductor nanodevice which can realize an arbitrary sequence of all these proposed single quantum logic gates. The proposed devices exploit the self-focusing effect of the hole wave function which allows for guiding the hole along a given path in the form of a stable soliton-like wave packet. Thanks to the presence of the Dresselhaus spin orbit coupling, the motion of the hole along a certain direction is equivalent to the application of an effective magnetic field which induces in turn a coherent rotation of the heavy hole spin. The hole motion and consequently the quantum logic operation is initialized only by weak static voltages applied to the electrodes which cover the nanodevice. The proposed gates allow for an all electric and ultrafast (tens of picoseconds) heavy hole spin manipulation and give the possibility to implement a scalable architecture of heavy hole spin qubits for quantum computation applications.

id: 1304.2686
title: Interpretation of the time delay in the ionization of Coulomb and two-center systems
authors: Vladislav V. Serov, Vladimir L. Derbov, Tatyana A. Sergeeva
comments: 30 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2686
abstract: We consider the time delay of electron detachment from a Coulomb center and two-center systems in the process of ionization. It is shown that the attosecond streaking, most usual method of time delay measure, can be formally described by placing a virtual detector of the arrival time delay at a certain distance from the center of the system. This approach allows derivation of a simple formula for Coulomb-laser coupling that perfectly agrees with the results of numerical solution of the time-dependent Schrodinger equation. The dependence of the time delay upon the energy, the angular momentum projection, and the azimuthal quantum number is studied for the ionization of molecular hydrogen ion. Finally, we propose a physical interpretation of singularities, arising when the formal expression for the time delay is applied to the ionization of molecular hydrogen.

id: 1304.2788
title: Quantum states as virtual singletons: converting duality into symmetry
authors: Giulia Battilotti
comments: 17 pages, presented at IQSA12 Cagliari (Italy), submitted
journal: 
subjects: Logic (math.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2788
abstract: In a predicative framework from basic logic, defined for a model of quantum parallelism by sequents, we characterize a class of first order domains, termed {\em virtual singletons}, which allows a generalization of the notion of duality, termed {\em symmetry}. Although consistent with the classical notion of duality, symmetry creates an environment where negation has fixed points, for which the direction of logical consequence is irrelevant. Symmetry can model Bell's states. So, despite its nonsense in a traditional logical setting, symmetry can hide the peculiar advantage for the treatment of information, that is proper of quantum mechanics.

id: 1304.2792
title: Calculus of Operators: Covariant Transform and Relative Convolutions
authors: Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: 27 pp; v2: numerous minor improvements; v3: minor adjustments
journal: Banach J. Math. Anal., v. 8(2014), no. 2, pp. 156-184
subjects: Representation Theory (math.RT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2792
abstract: This paper outlines a covariant theory of operators defined on groups and homogeneous spaces. A systematic use of groups and their representations allows to obtain results of algebraic and analytical nature. The consideration is systematically illustrated by a representative collection of examples. Keywords: Lie groups and algebras, convolution operator, relative convolution, representation theory, pseudo-differential operators, PDO, singular integral operator, SIO, the Heisenberg group, SL(2,R), induced representation, Fock-Segal-Bargmann (FSB) representation, Shrodinger representation, covariant transform, contravariant transform, wavelet transform, square integrable representations, reproducing kernel, Fourier-Wigner transform, deformation quantization, Bergman space, Berezin's symbol, Wick symbol, Schwartz kernel, Toeplitz operator, operators of local type, Simonenko's localisation, reproducing kernel thesis, Dynin group, twisted convolution, star product, Groenewold-Moyal, composition operator.

id: 1304.2794
title: New Light on Infrared Problems: Sectors, Statistics, Symmetries and Spectrum
authors: Detlev Buchholz, John E. Roberts
comments: 46 pages, 1 figure, v3 + v4 further references added; version as to appear in Commun. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2794
abstract: A new approach to the analysis of the physical state space of a theory is presented within the general setting of local quantum physics. It also covers theories with long range forces, such as Quantum Electrodynamics. Making use of the notion of charge class, an extension of the concept of superselection sector, infrared problems are avoided by restricting the states to observables localized in a light cone. The charge structure of a theory can be explored in a systematic manner. The present analysis focuses on simple charges, thus including the electric charge. It is shown that any such charge has a conjugate charge. There is a meaningful concept of statistics: the corresponding charge classes are either of Bose or of Fermi type. The family of simple charge classes is in one--to--one correspondence with the irreducible unitary representations of a compact Abelian group. Moreover, there is a meaningful definition of covariant charge classes. Any such class determines a continuous unitary representation of the Poincar\'e group or its covering group satisfying the relativistic spectrum condition. The resulting particle aspects are also briefly discussed.

id: 1304.2796
title: Cosmology with a decaying vacuum
authors: K. Urbanowski, M. Szydlowski
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, based on a talk given at Multiverse and Fundamental Cosmology (Multicosmofun'12), Szczecin, Poland, 10-14 September 2012. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1006.2417 by other authors
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1514, 143 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2796
abstract: Properties of unstable false vacuum states are analyzed from the point of view of the quantum theory of unstable states. Some of false vacuum states survive up to times when their survival probability has a non-exponential form. At times much latter than the transition time, when contributions to the survival probability of its exponential and non-exponential parts are comparable, the survival probability as a function of time t has an inverse power-like form. We show that at this time region the instantaneous energy of the false vacuum states tends to the energy of the true vacuum state as $1/t^{2}$ for $t \to \infty$.

id: 1304.2837
title: Approximating random quantum optimization problems
authors: B. Hsu, C.R. Laumann, A. Laeuchli, R. Moessner, S.L. Sondhi
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys Rev A (2013) 87 062334
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2837
abstract: We report a cluster of results regarding the difficulty of finding approximate ground states to typical instances of the quantum satisfiability problem $k$-QSAT on large random graphs. As an approximation strategy, we optimize the solution space over `classical' product states, which in turn introduces a novel autonomous classical optimization problem, PSAT, over a space of continuous degrees of freedom rather than discrete bits. Our central results are: (i) The derivation of a set of bounds and approximations in various limits of the problem, several of which we believe may be amenable to a rigorous treatment. (ii) A demonstration that an approximation based on a greedy algorithm borrowed from the study of frustrated magnetism performs well over a wide range in parameter space, and its performance reflects structure of the solution space of random $k$-QSAT. Simulated annealing exhibits metastability in similar `hard' regions of parameter space. (iii) A generalization of belief propagation algorithms introduced for classical problems to the case of continuous spins. This yields both approximate solutions, as well as insights into the free energy `landscape' of the approximation problem, including a so-called dynamical transition near the satisfiability threshold. Taken together, these results allow us to elucidate the phase diagram of random $k$-QSAT in a two-dimensional energy-density--clause-density space.

id: 1304.2886
title: Resonant states of H$_3^-$ molecule and its isotopologues D$_2$H$^-$ and H$_2$D$^-$
authors: M. Ayouz, Olivier Dulieu, J. Robert
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2886
abstract: Using the ground potential energy surface[M. Ayouz \textit{et\, al}. J. Chem Phys \textbf{132} 194309 (2010)] of the H$_3^-$ molecule, we have determined the energies and widths of the complex resonant levels of H$_3^-$ located up to 4000 cm$^{-1}$ above the dissociation limit H$^-$+H$_2(v_d=0,j_d=0)$. Bound and resonant levels of the H$_2$D$^-$ and D$_2$H$^-$ isotopologues have been also characterized within the same energy range. The method combines the hyperspherical adiabatic approach, slow variable discretization method, and complex absorbing potential. These results represent the first step for modeling the dynamics of the associated diatom-negative ion collision at low energy involving rotational quenching of the diatom and reactive nucleus exchange via weak tunneling effect through the potential barrier of the potential energy surface.

id: 1304.2900
title: Microwave transmissions through superconducting coplanar waveguide resonators with different coupling configurations
authors: Zhang Si-Lei, Li Hai-Jie, L. F. Wei, Fang Yu-Rong, Wang Yi-Wen, Zhou Pin-Jia, Wei Qiang, Cao Chun-Hai, Xiong Xiang-Zheng
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2900
abstract: We design and fabricate two types of superconducting niobium coplanar waveguide microwave resonators with different coupling capacitors on high purity Si substrates. Their microwave transmissions are measured at the temperatures of 20 mK. It is found that these two types of resonators possess significantly-different loaded quality factors; one is $5.6\times{10}^{3}$, and the other is $4.0\times{10}^{4}$. The measured data are fitted well by classical ABCD matrix approach. We found that the transmission peak deviates from the standard Lorentizian with a frequency broadening.

id: 1304.2922
title: Universal threshold for the dynamical behavior of lattice systems with long-range interactions
authors: Romain Bachelard, Michael Kastner
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 110, 170603 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2922
abstract: Dynamical properties of lattice systems with long-range pair interactions, decaying like 1/r^{\alpha} with the distance r, are investigated, in particular the time scales governing the relaxation to equilibrium. Upon varying the interaction range \alpha, we find evidence for the existence of a threshold at \alpha=d/2, dependent on the spatial dimension d, at which the relaxation behavior changes qualitatively and the corresponding scaling exponents switch to a different regime. Based on analytical as well as numerical observations in systems of vastly differing nature, ranging from quantum to classical, from ferromagnetic to antiferromagnetic, and including a variety of lattice structures, we conjecture this threshold and some of its characteristic properties to be universal.

id: 1304.2992
title: Fermionization of two-component few-fermion systems in a one-dimensional harmonic trap
authors: E. J. Lindgren, J. Rotureau, C. Forss¨¦n, A. G. Volosniev, N. T. Zinner
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, published version including two appendices on our new numerical and analytical approach
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 063003
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.2992
abstract: The nature of strongly interacting Fermi gases and magnetism is one of the most important and studied topics in condensed-matter physics. Still, there are many open questions. A central issue is under what circumstances strong short-range repulsive interactions are enough to drive magnetic correlations. Recent progress in the field of cold atomic gases allows to address this question in very clean systems where both particle numbers, interactions and dimensionality can be tuned. Here we study fermionic few-body systems in a one dimensional harmonic trap using a new rapidly converging effective-interaction technique, plus a novel analytical approach. This allows us to calculate the properties of a single spin-down atom interacting with a number of spin-up particles, a case of much recent experimental interest. Our findings indicate that, in the strongly interacting limit, spin-up and spin-down particles want to separate in the trap, which we interpret as a microscopic precursor of one-dimensional ferromagnetism in imbalanced systems. Our predictions are directly addressable in current experiments on ultracold atomic few-body systems.

id: 1304.3012
title: Cluster Luttinger Liquids of Rydberg-dressed Atoms in Optical Lattices
authors: Marco Mattioli, Marcello Dalmonte, Wolfgang Lechner, Guido Pupillo
comments: 5+7 pages, 4+11 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 165302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3012
abstract: We investigate the zero-temperature phases of bosonic and fermionic gases confined to one dimension and interacting via a class of finite-range soft-shoulder potentials (i.e. soft-core potentials with an additional hard-core onsite interaction). Using a combination of analytical and numerical methods, we demonstrate the stabilization of critical quantum liquids with qualitatively new features with respect to the Tomonaga-Luttinger liquid paradigm. These features result from frustration and cluster formation in the corresponding classical ground-state. Characteristic signatures of these liquids are accessible in state-of-the-art experimental setups with Rydberg-dressed ground-state atoms trapped in optical lattices.

id: 1304.3155
title: The Superluminal Tunneling Story
authors: Horst Aichmann, G¨¹nter Nimtz
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3155
abstract: Since 1992 experimental evidence of superluminal (faster than light, FTL) signals are causing much excitement in the physical community and in the media. Superluminal signal velocity and zero time tunneling was first observed in an analog tunneling experiment with microwaves. Recently, the conjectured zero time of electron was claimed to be observed in ionizing helium. The FTL signal velocity was reproduced with infrared light and with various tunneling barriers in several laboratories worldwide. Remarkable, it was shown that the tunneling time is a universal quantity for elastic and for electromagnetic fields. Many theoretical physicists predicted this FTL nature of the tunneling process. However, even with this background many members of the physics community did not accept the superluminal signal velocity interpretation of the experimental results and they also ignored the universal tunneling time. The predicted and measured zero tunneling time was taken as a fantastic nonsense. A brief explanation of the misleading theoretical approaches against FTL signals due to the tunneling process is presented eventually.

id: 1304.3178
title: XYZ quantum Heisenberg models with p-orbital bosons
authors: Fernanda Pinheiro, Georg M. Bruun, Jani-Petri Martikainen, Jonas Larson
comments: 5 pages + supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 205302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3178
abstract: We demonstrate how the spin-1/2 XYZ quantum Heisenberg model can be realized with bosonic atoms loaded in the p band of an optical lattice in the Mott regime. The combination of Bose statistics and the symmetry of the p-orbital wave functions leads to a nonintegrable Heisenberg model with antiferromagnetic couplings. Moreover, the sign and relative strength of the couplings characterizing the model are shown to be experimentally tunable. We display the rich phase diagram in the one-dimensional case and discuss finite size effects relevant for trapped systems. Finally, experimental issues related to preparation, manipulation, detection, and imperfections are considered.

id: 1304.3222
title: Generalized thermodynamics of an autonomous micro-engine
authors: Lukas Gilz, Eike P. Thesing, James R. Anglin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3222
abstract: We analyze an autonomous micro-engine as a closed quantum mechanical system, including the work it performs and the fuel it consumes. Our model system shows by example that it is possible to transfer energy steadily and spontaneously between fast and slow degrees of freedom, in analogy to the way combustion engines convert chemical energy into work. Having shown this possibility, we observe close analogies between the closed-system quantum dynamics of our micro-engine and the First and Second Law of Thermodynamics. From these analogies we deduce a generalized formulation of thermodynamics that remains valid on the micro-scale.

id: 1304.3250
title: Transport of dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates in a one-dimensional optical lattice
authors: S. K¨¹hn, T. E. Judd
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 023608 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3250
abstract: We show that magnetic dipolar interactions can stabilize superfluidity in atomic gases but the dipole alignment direction required to achieve this varies, depending on whether the flow is oscillatory or continuous. If a condensate is made to oscillate through a lattice, damping of the oscillations can be reduced by aligning the dipoles perpendicular to the direction of motion. However, if a lattice is driven continuously through the condensate, superfluid behavior is best preserved when the dipoles are aligned parallel to the direction of motion. We explain these results in terms of the formation of topological excitations and tunnel barrier heights between lattice sites.

id: 1304.3257
title: Controlling a Nanowire Spin-Orbit Qubit via Electric-Dipole Spin Resonance
authors: Rui Li, J. Q. You, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures + Supplementary Material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 086805 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3257
abstract: A semiconductor nanowire quantum dot with strong spin-orbit coupling (SOC) can be used to achieve a spin-orbit qubit. In contrast to a spin qubit, the spin-orbit qubit can respond to an external ac electric field, an effect called electric-dipole spin resonance. Here we develop a theory that can apply in the strong SOC regime. We find that there is an optimal SOC strength \eta_{opt}=\sqrt{2}/2, where the Rabi frequency induced by the ac electric field becomes maximal. Also, we show that both the level spacing and the Rabi frequency of the spin-orbit qubit have periodic responses to the direction of the external static magnetic field. These responses can be used to determine the SOC in the nanowire.

id: 1304.3295
title: The oscillator model for the Lie superalgebra sh(2|2) and Charlier polynomials
authors: E.I. Jafarov, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: Minor changes and some additional references added in version 1
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54 (2013) 103506
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3295
abstract: We investigate an algebraic model for the quantum oscillator based upon the Lie superalgebra sh(2|2), known as the Heisenberg-Weyl superalgebra or "the algebra of supersymmetric quantum mechanics", and its Fock representation. The model offers some freedom in the choice of a position and a momentum operator, leading to a free model parameter gamma. Using the technique of Jacobi matrices, we determine the spectrum of the position operator, and show that its wavefunctions are related to Charlier polynomials C_n with parameter gamma^2. Some properties of these wavefunctions are discussed, as well as some other properties of the current oscillator model.

id: 1304.3298
title: Temporal and spatial interference in molecular above-threshold ionization with elliptically polarized fields
authors: XuanYang Lai, C. Figueira de Morisson Faria
comments: 9, pages, 7 figures. Please note that some figures have been simplified in order to comply with the arXiv requirements
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013406 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3298
abstract: We investigate direct above-threshold ionization in diatomic molecules, with particular emphasis on how quantum interference is altered by a driving field of non-vanishing ellipticity. This interference may be either temporal, i.e., related to ionization events occurring at different times, or spatial, i.e., related to the electron emission at different centers in the molecule. Employing the strong-field approximation and saddle-point methods, we find that, in general, for non-vanishing ellipticity, there will be a blurring of the temporal and spatial interference patterns. The former blurring is caused by the electron velocity component perpendicular to the major polarization axis, while spatial interference is washed out as a consequence either of s-p mixing, or of the temporal dependence of the ionization prefactor. Both types of interference are analyzed in detail in terms of electron trajectories, and specific conditions for which sharp fringes occur are provided.

id: 1304.3306
title: Printed Circuit Board Metal Powder Filters for Low Electron Temperatures
authors: Filipp Mueller, Raymond N. Schouten, Matthias Brauns, Tian Gang, Wee Han Lim, Nai Shyan Lai, Andrew S. Dzurak, Wilfred G. van der Wiel, Floris A. Zwanenburg
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Rev. Sci. Instrum
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 84, 044706 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3306
abstract: We report the characterisation of printed circuit boards (PCB) metal powder filters and their influence on the effective electron temperature which is as low as 22 mK for a quantum dot in a silicon MOSFET structure in a dilution refrigerator. We investigate the attenuation behaviour (10 MHz- 20 GHz) of filter made of four metal powders with a grain size below 50 um. The room-temperature attenuation of a stainless steel powder filter is more than 80 dB at frequencies above 1.5 GHz. In all metal powder filters the attenuation increases with temperature. Compared to classical powder filters, the design presented here is much less laborious to fabricate and specifically the copper powder PCB-filters deliver an equal or even better performance than their classical counterparts.

id: 1304.3346
title: Nondestructive light-shift measurements of single atoms in optical dipole traps
authors: Chung-Yu Shih, Michael S. Chapman
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3346
abstract: We measure the AC-Stark shifts of the 5S{1/2}, F=2 to 5P{3/2}, F'=3 transitions of individual optically trapped 87Rb atoms using a non-destructive detection technique that allows us to measure the fluorescent signal of one-and-the-same atom for over 60 seconds. These measurements allow efficient and rapid characterization of single atom traps that is required for many coherent quantum information protocols. Although this method is demonstrated using a single atom trap, the concept is readily extended to resolvable atomic arrays.

id: 1304.3390
title: Quipper: A Scalable Quantum Programming Language
authors: Alexander S. Green, Peter LeFanu Lumsdaine, Neil J. Ross, Peter Selinger, Beno?t Valiron
comments: 10 pages, PLDI 2013
journal: ACM SIGPLAN Notices 48(6):333-342, 2013
subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3390
abstract: The field of quantum algorithms is vibrant. Still, there is currently a lack of programming languages for describing quantum computation on a practical scale, i.e., not just at the level of toy problems. We address this issue by introducing Quipper, a scalable, expressive, functional, higher-order quantum programming language. Quipper has been used to program a diverse set of non-trivial quantum algorithms, and can generate quantum gate representations using trillions of gates. It is geared towards a model of computation that uses a classical computer to control a quantum device, but is not dependent on any particular model of quantum hardware. Quipper has proven effective and easy to use, and opens the door towards using formal methods to analyze quantum algorithms.

id: 1304.3407
title: Electrically-protected resonant exchange qubits in triple quantum dots
authors: J. M. Taylor, V. Srinivasa, J. Medford
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3407
abstract: We present a modulated microwave approach for quantum computing with qubits comprising three spins in a triple quantum dot. This approach includes single- and two-qubit gates that are protected against low-frequency electrical noise, due to an operating point with a narrowband response to high frequency electric fields. Furthermore, existing double quantum dot advances, including robust preparation and measurement via spin-to-charge conversion, are immediately applicable to the new qubit. Finally, the electric dipole terms implicit in the high frequency coupling enable strong coupling with superconducting microwave resonators, leading to more robust two-qubit gates.

id: 1304.3413
title: The Resonant Exchange Qubit
authors: J. Medford, J. Beil, J. M. Taylor, E. I. Rashba, H. Lu, A. C. Gossard, C. M. Marcus
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 050501 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3413
abstract: We introduce a solid-state qubit in which exchange interactions among confined electrons provide both the static longitudinal field and the oscillatory transverse field, allowing rapid and full qubit control via rf gate-voltage pulses. We demonstrate two-axis control at a detuning sweet-spot, where leakage due to hyperfine coupling is suppressed by the large exchange gap. A {\pi}/2-gate time of 2.5 ns and a coherence time of 19 {\mu}s, using multi-pulse echo, are also demonstrated. Model calculations that include effects of hyperfine noise are in excellent quantitative agreement with experiment.

id: 1304.3416
title: Two-Qubit Gates for Resonant Exchange Qubits
authors: Andrew C. Doherty, Matthew P. Wardrop
comments: 4+4 pages, 2 figures, supplementary information included, comments welcome, v.2 updated with arxiv numbers for references to arxiv:1304.3407 and arxiv:1304.3413
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3416
abstract: A new approach to single-qubit operations using exchange interactions of single electrons in gate-defined quantum dots has recently been demonstrated: the resonant exchange qubit. We show that two-qubit operations, specifically the CPHASE gate, can be performed between resonant exchange qubits very straightforwardly, using a single exchange pulse. This is in marked contrast to the best known protocols for exchange qubits where such a gate requires many pulses so that leakage processes arising from the exchange interaction can be overcome. For resonant exchange qubits a simple two-qubit gate is possible because in this mode of operation energy conservation suppresses leakage.

id: 1304.3452
title: Environment-induced anisotropy and the sensitivity of the radical pair mechanism in the avian compass
authors: Alejandro Carrillo, Marcio F. Cornelio, Marcos C. de Oliveira
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3452
abstract: Earth's magnetic field is essential for orientation in birds migration. The most promising explanation for this orientation is the photo-stimulated radical pair (RP) mechanism, conjectured to occur in cryptochrome photoreceptors. The radicals must have an intrinsic anisotropy in order to define a reference frame for the compass. This anisotropy, when introduced through hyperfine interactions, imposes immobility of the RP, and implies that entanglement between the unpaired electrons of the RP is preserved over long coherence times. We show that this kind of anisotropy, and consequently the entanglement in the model, are not necessary for the proper functioning of the compass. Classically correlated initial conditions for the RP, subjected to a fast decoherence process, are able to provide the anisotropy required. The environment in which the RP is immersed is then responsible for the reference frame of the compass, relaxing the immobility assumption. This fact significantly expands the range of applicability of the RP mechanism providing more elements for experimental search.

id: 1304.3628
title: Dynamical probing of a topological phase of bosons in one dimension
authors: Emanuele G. Dalla Torre
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46, 085303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3628
abstract: We study the linear response to time-dependent probes of a symmetry-protected topological phase of bosons in one-dimension, the Haldane insulator (HI). This phase is separated from the ordinary Mott insulator (MI) and density-wave (DW) phases by continuous transitions, whose field theoretical description is here reviewed. Using this technique, we compute the absorption spectrum to two types of periodic perturbations and relate the findings to the nature of the critical excitations at the transition between the different phases. The HI-MI phase transition is topological and the critical excitations possess trivial quantum numbers: they correspond to particles and holes at zero momentum. Our findings are corroborated by a non-local mean-field approach, which allows us to directly relate the predicted spectrum to the known microscopic theory.

id: 1304.3669
title: Transition from Majorana to Weyl fermions and anapole moments
authors: S. Esposito
comments: revtex, 6 pages, 2 figures; to be published in Europhysics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3669
abstract: The apparent splitting of zero-bias conductance peaks, apparently observed in recent experiments concerning Majorana fermions in nanowires coupled to superconductors, can be interpreted as a manifestation of a transition in the structure from (massive) Majorana to (massless) Weyl fermions. A modification of the experiments in order to test such phenomenon is proposed by making recourse to the only possible electromagnetic interaction allowed to (massive) Majorana particles and mediated by their anapole moment. In suitably designed heterostructures with toroidal symmetry, the additional anapole interaction manifests itself in the lowering of the critical magnetic field required for the appearance of the zero-bias peak, a shift that can be directly measured and thus reveal the presence of Majorana (rather than Weyl) fermions. Anapole interactions, though not previously considered, may also be a powerful method to control the dynamics of Majorana fermions, and then to manipulate the qubit state in quantum computation

id: 1304.3697
title: Comment on `Vacuum Rabi Splitting in a Semiconductor Circuit QED System' by Toida et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 066802 - Published 6 February 2013
authors: A. Wallraff, A. Stockklauser, T. Ihn, J. R. Petta, A. Blais
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 249701 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3697
abstract: Toida et al. claim in their recent article [Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 066802 (2013)] that they `report a direct observation of vacuum Rabi splitting in a GaAs/AlGaAs double quantum dot (DQD) based charge qubit coupled with a superconducting coplanar waveguide (CPW) resonator'. In this comment, we challenge the main claims made in their paper and show that their results: a) do not provide any evidence of vacuum Rabi oscillations and b) do not provide any direct evidence of vacuum Rabi splitting.

id: 1304.3734
title: Macroscopic quantum spin tunnelling with two interacting spins
authors: Solomon A. Owerre, M. B. Paranjape
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 220403(R) (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3734
abstract: We study the simple Hamiltonian, $H=-K(S_{1z}^2 +S_{2z}^2)+ \lambda\vec S_1\cdot\vec S_2$, of two, large, coupled spins which are taken equal, each of total spin $s$ with $\lambda$ the exchange coupling constant. The exact ground state of this simple Hamiltonian is not known for an antiferromagnetic coupling corresponding to the $\lambda>0$. In the absence of the exchange interaction, the ground state is four fold degenerate, corresponding to the states where the individual spins are in their highest weight or lowest weight states, $|\hskip-1 mm\uparrow, \uparrow\rangle, |\hskip-1 mm\downarrow, \downarrow\rangle, |\hskip-1 mm\uparrow, \downarrow\rangle, |\hskip-1 mm\downarrow, \uparrow\rangle$, in obvious notation. The first two remain exact eigenstates of the full Hamiltonian. However, we show the that the two states $ |\hskip-1 mm\uparrow, \downarrow\rangle, |\hskip-1 mm\downarrow, \uparrow\rangle$ organize themselves into the combinations $|\pm\rangle=\frac{1}{\sqrt 2} (|\hskip-1 mm\uparrow, \downarrow\rangle \pm |\hskip-1 mm\downarrow \uparrow\rangle)$, up to perturbative corrections. For the anti-ferromagnetic case, we show that the ground state is non-degenerate, and we find the interesting result that for integer spins the ground state is $|+\rangle$, and the first excited state is the anti-symmetric combination $|-\rangle$ while for half odd integer spin, these roles are exactly reversed. The energy splitting however, is proportional to $\lambda^{2s}$, as expected by perturbation theory to the $2s^{\rm th}$ order. We obtain these results through the spin coherent state path integral.

id: 1304.3739
title: An exactly-solvable three-dimensional nonlinear quantum oscillator
authors: Axel Schulze-Halberg, John R. Morris
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3739
abstract: Exact analytical, closed-form solutions, expressed in terms of special functions, are presented for the case of a three-dimensional nonlinear quantum oscillator with a position dependent mass. This system is the generalization of the corresponding one-dimensional system, which has been the focus of recent attention. In contrast to other approaches, we are able to obtain solutions in terms of special functions, without a reliance upon a Rodrigues-type of formula. The wave functions of the quantum oscillator have the familiar spherical harmonic solutions for the angular part. For the s-states of the system, the radial equation accepts solutions that have been recently found for the one-dimensional nonlinear quantum oscillator, given in terms of associated Legendre functions, along with a constant shift in the energy eigenvalues. Radial solutions are obtained for all angular momentum states, along with the complete energy spectrum of the bound states.

id: 1304.3876
title: Power of the interactive proof systems with verifiers modeled by semi-quantum two-way finite automata
authors: Shenggen Zheng, Daowen Qiu, Jozef Gruska
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures, some references have been added, and comments are welcome
journal: Information and Computation 241(2015) 197-214
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3876
abstract: In this paper we explore the power of AM for the case that verifiers are {\em two-way finite automata with quantum and classical states} (2QCFA)--introduced by Ambainis and Watrous in 2002--and the communications are classical. It is of interest to consider AM with such "semi-quantum" verifiers because they use only limited quantum resources. Our main result is that such Quantum Arthur-Merlin proof systems (QAM(2QCFA)) with polynomial expected running time are more powerful than in the case verifiers are two-way probabilistic finite automata (AM(2PFA)) with polynomial expected running time. Moreover, we prove that there is a language which can be recognized by an exponential expected running time QAM(2QCFA), but can not be recognized by any AM(2PFA), and that the NP-complete language $L_{knapsack}$ can also be recognized by a QAM(2QCFA) working only on quantum pure states using unitary operators.

id: 1304.3926
title: FFLO or Majorana superfluids: The fate of fermionic cold atoms in spin-orbit coupled optical lattices
authors: Chunlei Qu, Ming Gong, Chuanwei Zhang
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, results for quasi-1D lattices were added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 053618 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3926
abstract: The recent experimental realization of spin-orbit coupling (SOC) for ultra-cold atoms opens a completely new avenue for exploring new quantum matter. In experiments, the SOC is implemented simultaneously with a Zeeman field. Such spin-orbit coupled Fermi gases are predicted to support Majorana fermions with non-Abelian exchange statistics in one dimension (1D). However, as shown in recent theory and experiments for 1D spin-imbalanced Fermi gases, the Zeeman field can lead to the long-sought Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov (FFLO) superfluids with non-zero momentum Cooper pairings, in contrast to the zero momentum pairing in Majorana superfluids. Therefore a natural question to ask is which phase, FFLO or Majorana superfluids, will survive in spin-orbit coupled Fermi gases in the presence of a large Zeeman field. In this paper, we address this question by studying the mean field quantum phases of 1D (quasi-1D) spin-orbit coupled fermionic cold atom optical lattices.

id: 1304.4024
title: Constructing Quantum Mechanics from a Clifford substructure of the relativistic point particle
authors: Kaare Borchsenius
comments: 19 pages. Final version
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4024
abstract: We show that the quantized free relativistic point particle can be understood as a string in a Clifford space which generates the space-time coordinates through its inner product. The generating algebra is preserved by a unitary symmetry which becomes the symmetry of the quantum states. We start by resolving the space-time canonical variables of the point particle into inner products of Weyl spinors with components in a Clifford algebra. Next, we show that a system of N particles has a U(N) symmetry that mixes the Clifford coordinates and momenta belonging to different particles. The inner products of these variables are assembled into Hermitian matrices X and P which are employed in defining a general unitarily invariant dynamical system. When X and P commute, this system can be gauged back into the original system of independent particles. When they do not commute, the system becomes irreducible and infinite and generates a space-time canonical system formally identical to Matrix Mechanics. The continuum limit is identified as a particular parametrization of a relativistic string in Clifford space.

id: 1304.4074
title: Limits on the accuracy of isoelectronic gravity measurements at short separation due to patch potentials
authors: R. O. Behunin, D. A. R. Dalvit, R. S. Decca, C. C. Speake
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4074
abstract: In force sensing experiments intended to measure non-Newtonian gravitational signals electrostatic patch potentials can give rise to spurious forces, torques, and noise. Undesired patch-induced interactions can lead to systematic effects which limit accuracy, and noise can place lower limits on precision. In this paper we develop the theory for electrostatic patch effects on isoelectronic experiments, where their mean effect is nullified by design. We derive analytical expressions for the patch force and torque power spectrum to estimate the limitations introduced by patch-induced signals.

id: 1304.4155
title: Signatures of nonlinear cavity optomechanics in the weak coupling regime
authors: K. Borkje, A. Nunnenkamp, J. D. Teufel, S. M. Girvin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures + short supplement
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 053603 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4155
abstract: We identify signatures of the intrinsic nonlinear interaction between light and mechanical motion in cavity optomechanical systems. These signatures are observable even when the cavity linewidth exceeds the optomechanical coupling rate. A strong laser drive red-detuned by twice the mechanical frequency from the cavity resonance frequency makes two-phonon processes resonant, which leads to a nonlinear version of optomechanically induced transparency. This effect provides a new method of measuring the average phonon number of the mechanical oscillator. Furthermore, we show that if the strong laser drive is detuned by half the mechanical frequency, optomechanically induced transparency also occurs due to resonant two-photon processes. The cavity response to a second probe drive is in this case nonlinear in the probe power. These effects should be observable with optomechanical coupling strengths that have already been realized in experiments.

id: 1304.4197
title: Nonlinear interaction effects in a strongly driven optomechanical cavity
authors: Marc-Antoine Lemonde, Nicolas Didier, Aashish A. Clerk
comments: 5 pages main text, 7 pages supplemental information
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4197
abstract: We consider how nonlinear interaction effects can manifest themselves and even be enhanced in a strongly driven optomechanical system. Using a Keldysh Green's function approach, we calculate modifications to the cavity density of states due to both linear and nonlinear optomechanical interactions, showing that strong modifications can arise even for a weak nonlinear interaction. We show how this quantity can be directly probed in an optomechanically-induced transparency type experiment. We also show how the enhanced interaction can lead to nonclassical behaviour, as evidenced by the behaviour of g_2 correlation functions.

id: 1304.4299
title: Atom Based Vector Microwave Electrometry Using Rubidium Rydberg Atoms in a Vapor Cell
authors: J. Sedlacek, A. Schwettmann, Harald K¨¹bler, J.P. Shaffer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4299
abstract: It is clearly important to pursue atomic standards for quantities like electromagnetic fields, time, length and gravity. We have recently shown, using Rydberg states, that Rb atoms in a vapor cell can serve as a practical, compact standard for microwave electric field strength. Here, we demonstrate, for the first time, that Rb atoms excited in a vapor cell can also be used for vector microwave electrometry by using Rydberg atom electromagnetically induced transparency. We describe the measurements necessary to obtain an arbitrary microwave electric field polarization at a resolution of $0.5^\circ$. The experiments are compared to theory and found to be in excellent agreement.

id: 1304.4338
title: Edge Excitations in Fractional Chern Insulators
authors: Wei-Wei Luo, Wen-Chao Chen, Yi-Fei Wang, Chang-De Gong
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 1 table, with Supplementary Material
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 161109 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4338
abstract: Recent theoretical works have demonstrated the realization of fractional quantum anomalous Hall states (also called fractional Chern insulators) in topological flat band lattice models without an external magnetic field. Such newly proposed lattice systems play a vital role to obtain a large class of fractional topological phases. Here we report the exact numerical studies of edge excitations for such systems in a disk geometry loaded with hard-core bosons, which will serve as a more viable experimental probe for such topologically ordered states. We find convincing numerical evidence of a series of edge excitations characterized by the chiral Luttinger liquid theory for the bosonic fractional Chern insulators in both the honeycomb disk Haldane model and the kagom\'{e}-lattice disk model. We further verify these current-carrying chiral edge states by inserting a central flux to test their compressibility.

id: 1304.4533
title: An analysis method for transmission measurements of superconducting resonators with applications to quantum-regime dielectric-loss measurements
authors: Chunqing Deng, Martin Otto, Adrian Lupascu
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 114, 054504 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4533
abstract: Superconducting resonators provide a convenient way to measure loss tangents of various dielectrics at low temperature. For the purpose of examining the microscopic loss mechanisms in dielectrics, precise measurements of the internal quality factor at different values of energy stored in the resonators are required. Here, we present a consistent method to analyze a LC superconducting resonator coupled to a transmission line. We first derive an approximate expression for the transmission S-parameter $S_{21}$ based on a complete circuit model. In the weak coupling limit, we show that the internal quality factor is reliably determined by fitting the approximate form of $S_{21}$. Since the voltage $V$ of the capacitor of the LC circuit is required to determine the energy stored in the resonator, we next calculate the relation between $V$ and the forward propagating wave voltage $V_{in}^+$. Due to the dependence of the quality factor on voltage, $V$ is not simply proportional to $V_{in}^+$. We find a self-consistent way to determine the relation between $V$ and $V_{in}^+$, which employs only the fitting parameters for $S_{21}$ and a linear scaling factor. We then examine the resonator transmission in the cases of port reflection and impedance mismatch. We find that resonator transmission asymmetry is primarily due to the reflection from discontinuity in transmission lines. We show that our analysis method to extract the internal quality factor is robust in the non-ideal cases above. Finally, we show that the analysis method on LC resonator can be generalize to arbitrary weakly coupled lumped and distributed resonators. The generalization uses a systematic approximation on the response function based on the pole and zero which are the closest to the resonance frequency. This Closest Pole and Zero Method (CPZM) is a valuable tool for analyzing physical measurements of high-Q resonators.

id: 1304.4546
title: A Qualified Kolmogorovian Account of Probabilistic Contextuality
authors: Ehtibar N. Dzhafarov, Janne V. Kujala
comments: Lecture Notes in Computer Science 8369, 201-212 (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4546
abstract: We describe a mathematical language for determining all possible patterns of contextuality in the dependence of stochastic outputs of a system on its deterministic inputs. The central notion is that of all possible couplings for stochastically unrelated outputs indexed by mutually incompatible values of inputs. A system is characterized by a pattern of which outputs can be "directly influenced" by which inputs (a primitive relation, hypothetical or normative), and by certain constraints imposed on the outputs (such as Bell-type inequalities or their quantum analogues). The set of couplings compatible with these constraints represents a form of contextuality in the dependence of outputs on inputs with respect to the declared pattern of direct influences.

id: 1304.4569
title: The effect of interactions on 2D fermionic symmetry-protected topological phases with Z2 symmetry
authors: Zheng-Cheng Gu, Michael Levin
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 201113(R) (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4569
abstract: We study the effect of interactions on 2D fermionic symmetry-protected topological (SPT) phases using the recently proposed braiding statistics approach. We focus on a simple class of examples: superconductors with a Z2 Ising symmetry. Although these systems are classified by Z in the noninteracting limit, our results suggest that the classification collapses to Z8 in the presence of interactions -- consistent with previous work that analyzed the stability of the edge. Specifically, we show that there are at least 8 different types of Ising superconductors that cannot be adiabatically connected to one another, even in the presence of strong interactions. In addition, we prove that each of the 7 nontrivial superconductors have protected edge modes.

id: 1304.4792
title: Correlations of quasi-2D dipolar ultracold gas at finite temperatures
authors: Krzysztof Pawlowski, Przemyslaw Bienias, Tilman Pfau, Kazimierz Rzazewski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043620 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4792
abstract: We study a quasi two dimensional dipolar gas at finite, but ultralow temperatures using the classical field approximation. The method, already used for a contact interacting gas, is extended here to samples with a weakly interacting long-range inter-atomic potential. We present statistical properties of the system for the current experiment with Chromium [Phys. Rev. A 84 053601 (2011)] and compare them with statistics for atoms with larger magnetic dipole moments. Significant enhancement of the third order correlation function, relevant for the particle losses, is found.

id: 1304.4829
title: Highly Controllable Qubit-Bath Coupling Based on a Sequence of Resonators
authors: P. J. Jones, J. Salmilehto, M. M?tt?nen
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, final version
journal: J. Low Temp. Phys. 173, 152 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4829
abstract: Combating the detrimental effects of noise remains a major challenge in realizing a scalable quantum computer. To help to address this challenge, we introduce a model realizing a controllable qubit-bath coupling using a sequence of LC resonators. The model establishes a strong coupling to a low-temperature environment which enables us to lower the effective qubit temperature making ground state initialization more efficient. The operating principle is similar to that of a recently proposed coplanar-waveguide cavity (CPW) system, for which our work introduces a complementary and convenient experimental realization. The lumped-element model utilized here provides an easily accessible theoretical description. We present analytical solutions for some experimentally feasible parameter regimes and study the control mechanism. Finally, we introduce a mapping between our model and the recent CPW system.

id: 1304.4833
title: Quantum Holonomies based on the Lorentz-violating tensor background
authors: K. Bakke, H. Belich
comments: 16 pages, no figures, to appear in J. Phys. G: Nucl. Part. Phys
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4833
abstract: We study geometric quantum phases corresponding to analogues of the Anandan quantum phase [J. Anandan, Phys. Lett. A {\bf138}, 347 (1989)] based on a possible scenario of the Lorentz symmetry violation background in a tensor background. We also show that quantum holonomies associated with the analogue of the Anandan quantum phase can be determined, and discuss a way of performing one-qubit quantum gates by analogy with the holonomic quantum computation [P. Zanardi and M. Rasetti, Phys. Lett. A {\bf264}, 94 (1999)].

id: 1304.4835
title: Violation of the universality hypothesis in ultra-cold atomic systems
authors: Tomasz Sowi¨½ski, Ravindra W. Chhajlany, Omjyoti Dutta, Luca Tagliacozzo, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4835
abstract: We study the attractive Bose-Hubbard model with a tunable, on-site three-body constraint. It is shown that the critical behavior of the system undergoing a phase transition from pair-superfluid to superfluid at unit filling depends on the value of the three-body repulsion. In particular, a critical exponent and the central charge governing the quantum phase transition are shown to have repulsion dependent features. In consequence, the model extends the list of known systems violating the universality hypothesis.

id: 1304.4873
title: Staggered-Ladder Quasienergy Spectra for Generic Quasimomentum and Quantum-Dynamical Manifestations
authors: Itzhack Dana
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1205.6178
journal: Physical Review A 87, 043623 (2013)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4873
abstract: A new kind of regular quasienergy (Floquet) spectrum is found for the generalized kicked particle under quantum-resonance conditions at generic quasimomentum, a quantity most relevant in atom-optics experimental realizations of kicked-rotor systems. The new non-Poisson regular spectrum has the structure of a staggered ladder, i.e., it is the superposition of a finite number of ladder subspectra all having the same spacing, which is independent of the nonintegrability of the system. This spectral structure is shown to have distinct quantum-dynamical manifestations: A suppression of quantum resonances and a novel type of dynamical localization characterized by unique features such as traveling-wave components in the time evolution. These phenomena are found to be robust under small variations of the quasimomentum and should therefore be experimentally observable using Bose-Einstein condensates with sufficiently small quasimomentum width.

id: 1304.4902
title: Theoretical characterization of excitation energy transfer in chlorosome light-harvesting antennae from green sulfur bacteria
authors: Takatoshi Fujita, Joonsuk Huh, Semion K. Saikin, Jennifer C. Brookes, Alan Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 
journal: Photosynth. Res. 120, 273 (2014)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4902
abstract: Chlorosomes are the largest and most efficient natural light-harvesting antenna systems. They contain thousands of pigment molecules - bacteriochlorophylls (BChls)- that are organized into supramolecular aggregates and form a very efficient network for excitonic energy migration. Here, we present a theoretical study of excitation energy transfer (EET) in the chlorosome based on experimental evidence of the molecular assembly. Our model for the exciton dynamics throughout the antenna combines a stochastic time propagation of the excitonic wave function with molecular dynamics simulations of supramolecular structure, and electronic structure calculations of the excited states. The simulation results reveal a detailed picture of the EET in the chlorosome. Coherent energy transfer is significant only for the first 50 fs after the initial excitation, and the wavelike motion of the exciton is completely damped at 100 fs. Characteristic time constants of incoherent energy transfer, subsequently, vary from 1 ps to several tens of ps. We assign the time scales of the EET to specific physical processes by comparing our results with the data obtained from time-resolved spectroscopy experiments.

id: 1304.4959
title: Unconventional magnetism via optical pumping of interacting spin systems
authors: Tony E. Lee, Sarang Gopalakrishnan, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 5 pages + appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 257204 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4959
abstract: We consider strongly interacting systems of effective spins, subject to dissipative spin-flip processes associated with optical pumping. We predict the existence of novel magnetic phases in the steady-state of this system, which emerge due to the competition between coherent and dissipative processes. Specifically, for strongly anisotropic spin-spin interactions, we find ferromagnetic, antiferromagnetic, spin-density-wave, and staggered-XY steady states, which are separated by nonequilibrium phase transitions meeting at a Lifshitz point. These transitions are accompanied by quantum correlations, resulting in spin squeezing. Experimental implementations in ultracold atoms and trapped ions are discussed.

id: 1304.4972
title: Emulating Solid-State Physics with a Hybrid System of Ultracold Ions and Atoms
authors: U. Bissbort, D. Cocks, A. Negretti, Z. Idziaszek, T. Calarco, F. Schmidt-Kaler, W. Hofstetter, R. Gerritsma
comments: 5 pages + appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 080501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4972
abstract: We propose and theoretically investigate a hybrid system composed of a crystal of trapped ions coupled to a cloud of ultracold fermions. The ions form a periodic lattice and induce a band structure in the atoms. This system combines the advantages of scalability and tunability of ultracold atomic systems with the high fidelity operations and detection offered by trapped ion systems. It also features close analogies to natural solid-state systems, as the atomic degrees of freedom couple to phonons of the ion lattice, thereby emulating a solid-state system. Starting from the microscopic many-body Hamiltonian, we derive the low energy Hamiltonian including the atomic band structure and give an expression for the atom-phonon coupling. We discuss possible experimental implementations such as a Peierls-like transition into a period-doubled dimerized state.

id: 1304.4989
title: Wide-span and tunable-wavelength photon pairs around 1.55 ¦Ìm from a silicon nanophotonic chip
authors: Ranjeet Kumar, Jun Rong Ong, John Recchio, Kartik Srinivasan, Shayan Mookherjea
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.4989
abstract: Using a compact optically-pumped silicon nanophotonic chip consisting of coupled silicon microrings, we generate photon pairs in multiple pairs of wavelengths around 1.55 \mu m. The wavelengths are tunable over several nanometers, demonstrating the capability to generate wavelength division multiplexed photon pairs at freely-chosen telecommunications-band wavelengths.

id: 1304.5041
title: Quantum holonomy in Lieb-Liniger model
authors: Nobuhiro Yonezawa, Atushi Tanaka, Taksu Cheon
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures; v2: published version, appendices added, fixed typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A87, 062113 (2013) (6pp)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5041
abstract: We examine a parametric cycle in the N-body Lieb-Liniger model that starts from the free system and goes through Tonks-Girardeau and super-Tonks-Girardeau regimes and comes back to the free system. We show the existence of exotic quantum holonomy, whose detailed workings are analysed with the specific sample of two- and three body systems. The classification of eigenstates based on clustering structure naturally emerges from the analysis.

id: 1304.5094
title: Quantum to Classical Transition of Inflationary Perturbations - Continuous Spontaneous Localization as a Possible Mechanism -
authors: Suratna Das, Kinjalk Lochan, Satyabrata Sahu, T. P. Singh
comments: 42 pages, 3 figures, comments welcome, v2 : the section on phase coherence is rewritten, conclusions unchanged, accepted for publication in PRD
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 085020 (2013)
subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5094
abstract: The inflationary paradigm provides a mechanism to generate the primordial perturbations needed to explain the observed large scale structures in the universe. Inflation traces back all the inhomogeneities to quantum fluctuations although the structures look classical today. Squeezing of primordial quantum fluctuations along with the mechanism of decoherence accounts for many aspects of this quantum to classical transition, although it remains a matter of debate as to whether this is sufficient to explain the issue of realization of a single outcome (i.e. the issue of macro-objectification) from a quantum ensemble given that the universe is a closed system. A similar question of emergence of classical behavior of macroscopic objects exists also for laboratory systems and apart from decoherence there have been attempts to resolve this issue through Continuous Spontaneous Localization (CSL), which is a stochastic nonlinear modification of the non-relativistic Schr\"{o}dinger equation. Recently, Martin {\it et al.} have investigated whether a CSL-like mechanism with a constant strength parameter, when the Mukhanov-Sasaki variable is taken as the "collapse-operator", can explain how the primordial quantum perturbations generated during inflation become classical. Within the scope of their assumptions they essentially come to a negative conclusion. In the present work, we generalize their analysis by allowing the CSL strength parameter to depend on physical scales so as to capture the CSL amplification mechanism. We show that such a generalization provides a mechanism for macro-objectification (i.e. classicalization) of the inflationary quantum perturbations, while also preserving scale invariance of the power spectrum and phase coherence of super-horizon perturbation modes in a particular class of these models.

id: 1304.5182
title: Inhomogeneities and impurities in a dense one-dimensional Rydberg lattice gas
authors: S. Ji, V. Sanghai, C. Ates, I. Lesanovsky
comments: 5 pages and 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 021404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5182
abstract: We consider a dense one-dimensional laser-driven Rydberg lattice gas with perfect nearest-neighbor blockade. The ground state of this system can be found analytically in certain parameter regimes even when the applied fields are inhomogeneous in space. We will use this unique feature to investigate the effect of an impurity - introduced by the local variation of the laser parameters - on the correlations of the many-body ground state. Moreover, we explore the role of a staggered laser field which alternates from site to site thereby breaking the sublattice symmetry. We demonstrate that this technique, which can be applied experimentally, reveals insights into the role of long-range interactions on the critical properties of a Rydberg gas. Our work highlight novel possibilities for the exploration of many-body physics in Rydberg lattice gases based on locally tuneable laser fields.

id: 1304.5196
title: Dicke Quantum Spin and Photon Glass in Optical Cavities: Non-equilibrium theory and experimental signatures
authors: Michael Buchhold, Philipp Strack, Subir Sachdev, Sebastian Diehl
comments: 25 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063622 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5196
abstract: In the context of ultracold atoms in multimode optical cavities, the appearance of a quantum-critical glass phase of atomic spins has been predicted recently. Due to the long-range nature of the cavity-mediated interactions, but also the presence of a driving laser and dissipative processes such as cavity photon loss, the quantum optical realization of glassy physics has no analog in condensed matter, and could evolve into a "cavity glass microscope" for frustrated quantum systems out-of-equilibrium. Here we develop the non-equilibrium theory of the multimode Dicke model with quenched disorder and Markovian dissipation. Using a unified Keldysh path integral approach, we show that the defining features of a low temperature glass, representing a critical phase of matter with algebraically decaying temporal correlation functions, are seen to be robust against the presence of dissipation due to cavity loss. The universality class however is modified due to the Markovian bath. The presence of strong disorder leads to an enhanced equilibration of atomic and photonic degrees of freedom, including the emergence of a common low-frequency effective temperature. The imprint of the atomic spin glass physics onto a "photon glass" makes it possible to detect the glass state by standard experimental techniques of quantum optics. We provide an unambiguous characterization of the superradiant and glassy phases in terms of fluorescence spectroscopy, homodyne detection, and the temporal photon correlation function $g^{(2)}(\tau)$.

id: 1304.5284
title: Distribution of Scattering Matrix Elements in Quantum Chaotic Scattering
authors: Santosh Kumar, Andr¨¦ Nock, Hans-J¨¹rgen Sommers, Thomas Guhr, Barbara Dietz, Maksim Miski-Oglu, Achim Richter, Florian Sch?fer
comments: Published version
journal: Physical Review Letters, Volume 111, Issue 3, Page 030403, Year 2013
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5284
abstract: Scattering is an important phenomenon which is observed in systems ranging from the micro- to macroscale. In the context of nuclear reaction theory the Heidelberg approach was proposed and later demonstrated to be applicable to many chaotic scattering systems. To model the universal properties, stochasticity is introduced to the scattering matrix on the level of the Hamiltonian by using random matrices. A long-standing problem was the computation of the distribution of the off-diagonal scattering-matrix elements. We report here an exact solution to this problem and present analytical results for systems with preserved and with violated time-reversal invariance. Our derivation is based on a new variant of the supersymmetry method. We also validate our results with scattering data obtained from experiments with microwave billiards.

id: 1304.5348
title: Power-law scaling of asymmetries in viscous flow with PT-symmetric inflow and outflow
authors: Huidan, Xi Chen, Yousheng Xu, Yogesh N. Joglekar
comments: 18 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 48, 035501 (2015)
subjects: Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5348
abstract: In recent years, open systems with balanced loss and gain, that are invariant under the combined parity and time-reversal ($\mathcal{PT}$) operations, have been studied via asymmetries of their solutions. They represent systems as diverse as coupled optical waveguides and electrical or mechanical oscillators. We numerically investigate the asymmetries of incompressible viscous flow in two and three dimensions with "balanced" inflow-outflow ($\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric) configurations. By introducing configuration-dependent classes of asymmetry functions in velocity, kinetic energy density, and vorticity fields, we find that the flow asymmetries exhibit power-law scaling with a single exponent in the laminar regime with the Reynolds number ranging over four decades. We show that such single-exponent scaling is expected for small Reynolds numbers, although its robustness at large values of Reynolds numbers is unexpected. Our results imply that $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric inflow-outflow configurations provide a hitherto unexplored avenue to tune flow properties.

id: 1304.5396
title: How to measure diffusional decoherence in multimode rubidium vapor memories?
authors: Radoslaw Chrapkiewicz, Wojciech Wasilewski, Czeslaw Radzewicz
comments: 
journal: Optics Communications 317 2014
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5396
abstract: Diffusion is the main limitation of storage time in spatially multimode applications of warm atomic vapors. Precise knowledge of diffusional decoherence in the system is desired for designing most of vapor memory setups. Here we present a novel, efficient and direct method of measuring unbiased diffusional decoherence, clearly distinguished from all other decoherence sources. We found the normalized diffusion coefficients of rubidium atoms in noble gases to be as follows: neon 0.20 cm$^{2}$/s, krypton 0.068 cm$^{2}$/s and we are the first to give an experimental result for rubidium in xenon: 0.057 cm$^{2}$/s. Our method consists in creating, storing and retrieving spatially-varying atomic coherence. Raman scattering provides a necessary interface to the atoms that allows for probing many spatial periodicities of atomic coherence concurrently. As opposed to previous experiments the method can be used for any single sealed glass cell and it does not require any setup alterations during the measurements and therefore it is robust and repeatable.

id: 1304.5485
title: An Introduction to Quantum Programming in Quipper
authors: Alexander S. Green, Peter LeFanu Lumsdaine, Neil J. Ross, Peter Selinger, Beno?t Valiron
comments: 15 pages, RC2013
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science 7948:110-124, Springer, 2013
subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5485
abstract: Quipper is a recently developed programming language for expressing quantum computations. This paper gives a brief tutorial introduction to the language, through a demonstration of how to make use of some of its key features. We illustrate many of Quipper's language features by developing a few well known examples of Quantum computation, including quantum teleportation, the quantum Fourier transform, and a quantum circuit for addition.

id: 1304.5492
title: Quasitriangular Hopf algebras, braid groups and quantum entanglement
authors: E. Pinto, Marco A. S. Trindade, J. D. M. Vianna
comments: 13 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 11 No. 7 (2013) 1350065
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5492
abstract: The aim of the paper is to provide an method to obtain representations of the braid group through a set of quasitriangular Hopf algebras. In particular, these algebras may be derived from group algebras of cyclic groups with additional algebraic structures. In this context, by using the flip operator, it is possible to construct R-matrices that can be regarded as quantum logic gates capable of preserving quantum entanglement.

id: 1304.5495
title: Harmonic and Dirac oscillators in a (2+1)-dimensional noncommutative space
authors: F. Vega
comments: 7 pages, no figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1208.6315
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 55, 032105 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5495
abstract: We study the Harmonic and Dirac Oscillator problem extended to a three-dimensional noncom- mutative space where the noncommutativity is induced by a shift of the dynamical variables with generators of SL(2;R) in a unitary irreducible representation. The Hilbert space gets the structure of a direct product with the representation space as a factor, where there exist operators which realize the algebra of Lorentz transformations. The spectrum of these models are considered in perturbation theory, both for small and large noncommutativity parameters, ?nding no constraints between coordinates and momenta noncom- mutativity parameters. Since the representation space of the unitary irreducible representations SL(2;R) can be realized in terms of spaces of square-integrable functions, we conclude that these models are equivalent to quantum mechanical models of particles living in a space with an additional compact dimension. PACS: 03.65.-w; 11.30.Cp; 02.40.Gh

id: 1304.5581
title: A Field-motion tautological approach and the role of the acceleration in setting a quantization condition
authors: Daniel Lima Nascimento
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5581
abstract: In this work is made a reanalysis of the central problem of electrodynamics, i.e., finding the conditions under which an electromagnetic field generates a stable mechanical motion and conversely the existence of this field itself can be consistent with that motion.

id: 1304.5680
title: Geometric phase of two-level atoms and thermal nature of de Sitter spacetime
authors: Zehua Tian, Jiliang Jing
comments: 14 pages, to apper in JHEP. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1012.4055 by other authors
journal: JHEP 04 (2013) 109
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5680
abstract: In the framework of open quantum systems, we study the geometric phase acquired by freely falling and static two-level atoms interacting with quantized conformally coupled massless scalar fields in de Sitter-invariant vacuum. We find that, for the freely falling atom, the geometric phase gets a correction resulting from a thermal bath with the Gibbons-Hawking temperature, thus it clearly reveals the intrinsic thermal nature of de Sitter spacetime from a different physical context. For the static atom, there is a correction to the geometric phase coming from both the intrinsic thermal nature of de Sitter spacetime and the Unruh effect associated with the proper acceleration of the atom. Furthermore, in a gedanken experiment, we estimate the magnitude of the correction to the geometric phase as opposed to that in a flat spacetime. We find that the correction for the freely falling atom is too tiny to be measured, and that for the static atom achieves an observable magnitude only when the atom almost locates at the horizon.

id: 1304.5723
title: Classical information storage in an $n$-level quantum system
authors: P¨¦ter E. Frenkel, Mih¨¢ly Weiner
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5723
abstract: A game is played by a team of two --- say Alice and Bob --- in which the value of a random variable $x$ is revealed to Alice only, who cannot freely communicate with Bob. Instead, she is given a quantum $n$-level system, respectively a classical $n$-state system, which she can put in possession of Bob in any state she wishes. We evaluate how successfully they managed to store and recover the value of $x$ in the used system by requiring Bob to specify a value $z$ and giving a reward of value $ f(x,z)$ to the team. We show that whatever the probability distribution of $x$ and the reward function $f$ are, when using a quantum $n$-level system, the maximum expected reward obtainable with the best possible team strategy is equal to that obtainable with the use of a classical $n$-state system. The proof relies on mixed discriminants of positive matrices and --- perhaps surprisingly --- an application of the Supply--Demand Theorem for bipartite graphs. As a corollary, we get an infinite set of new, dimension dependent inequalities regarding positive operator valued measures and density operators on complex $n$-space. As a further corollary, we see that the greatest value, with respect to a given distribution of $x$, of the mutual information $I(x;z)$ that is obtainable using an $n$-level quantum system equals the analogous maximum for a classical $n$-state system.

id: 1304.5933
title: Probing spin entanglement by gate-voltage-controlled interference of current correlation in quantum spin Hall insulators
authors: Wei Chen, Z. D. Wang, R. Shen, D. Y. Xing
comments: Physics Letters A in press
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.5933
abstract: We propose an entanglement detector composed of two quantum spin Hall insulators and a side gate deposited on one of the edge channels. For an ac gate voltage, the differential noise contributed from the entangled electron pairs exhibits the nontrivial step structures, from which the spin entanglement concurrence can be easily obtained. The possible spin dephasing effects in the quantum spin Hall insulators are also included.

id: 1304.6028
title: Universality of the momentum band density of periodic networks
authors: Ram Band, Gregory Berkolaiko
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 130404 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6028
abstract: The momentum spectrum of a periodic network (quantum graph) has a band-gap structure. We investigate the relative density of the bands or, equivalently, the probability that a randomly chosen momentum belongs to the spectrum of the periodic network. We show that this probability exhibits universal properties. More precisely, the probability to be in the spectrum does not depend on the edge lengths (as long as they are generic) and is also invariant within some classes of graph topologies.

id: 1304.6045
title: Accessing quantum nanoplasmonics in a hybrid quantum-dot metal nanosystem: Mollow triplet of a quantum dot near a metal nanoparticle
authors: Rong-Chun Ge, C. Van Vlack, P. Yao, Jeff. F. Young, S. Hughes
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 205425 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6045
abstract: We present a theoretical study of the resonance fluorescence spectra of an optically driven quantum dot placed near a single metal nanoparticle. The metallic reservoir coupling is calculated for an 8-nm metal nanoparticle using a time-convolutionless master equation approach where the exact photon reservoir function is included using Green function theory. By exciting the system coherently near the nanoparticle dipole mode, we show that the driven Mollow spectrum becomes highly asymmetric due to internal coupling effects with higher-order plasmons. We also highlight regimes of resonance squeezing and broadening as well as spectral reshaping through light propagation. Our master equation technique can be applied to any arbitrary material system, including lossy inhomogeneous structures, where mode expansion techniques are known to break down.

id: 1304.6110
title: Entanglement entropy in particle decay
authors: Louis Lello, Daniel Boyanovsky, Richard Holman
comments: Discussion on wavepackets and experimental measurement. 20 pages, 2 figs
journal: JHEP 2013,116
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6110
abstract: The decay of a parent particle into two or more daughter particles results in an entangled quantum state as a consequence of conservation laws in the decay process. Recent experiments at Belle and BaBar take advantage of quantum entanglement and the correlations in the time evolution of the product particles to study CP and T violations. If one (or more) of the product particles are not observed, their degrees of freedom are traced out of the pure state density matrix resulting from the decay, leading to a mixed state density matrix and an entanglement entropy. This entropy is a measure of the loss of information present in the original quantum correlations of the entangled state. We use the Wigner-Weisskopf method to construct an approximation to this state that evolves in time in a {\em manifestly unitary} way. We then obtain the entanglement entropy from the reduced density matrix of one of the daughter particles obtained by tracing out the unobserved states, and follow its time evolution. We find that it grows over a time scale determined by the lifetime of the parent particle to a maximum, which when the width of the parent particle is narrow, describes the phase space distribution of maximally entangled Bell-like states. The method is generalized to the case in which the parent particle is described by a wave packet localized in space. Possible experimental avenues to measure the entanglement entropy in the decay of mesons at rest are discussed.

id: 1304.6112
title: Faster identification of optimal contraction sequences for tensor networks
authors: Robert N. C. Pfeifer, Jutho Haegeman, Frank Verstraete
comments: 25 pages, 12 figs, 2 tables, includes reference implementation of algorithm, v2.00. Added more detail for examples, including Table I which contains sample contraction sequences. Coincides with published version. (Usage instructions for the reference implementation, which were included as supplementary material in the published version, are incorporated as Appendix E.) Fixed missing references
journal: Phys. Rev. E 90, 033315 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6112
abstract: The efficient evaluation of tensor expressions involving sums over multiple indices is of significant importance to many fields of research, including quantum many-body physics, loop quantum gravity, and quantum chemistry. The computational cost of evaluating an expression may depend strongly upon the order in which the index sums are evaluated, and determination of the operation-minimising contraction sequence for a single tensor network (single term, in quantum chemistry) is known to be NP-hard. The current preferred solution is an exhaustive search, using either an iterative depth-first approach with pruning or dynamic programming and memoisation, but these approaches are impractical for many of the larger tensor network Ansaetze encountered in quantum many-body physics. We present a modified search algorithm with enhanced pruning which exhibits a performance increase of several orders of magnitude while still guaranteeing identification of an optimal operation-minimising contraction sequence for a single tensor network. A reference implementation for MATLAB, compatible with the ncon() and multienv() network contractors of arXiv:1402.0939 and arXiv:1310.8023 respectively, is supplied.

id: 1304.6150
title: Size consistency of tensor network methods for quantum many-body systems
authors: Zhen Wang, Yongjian Han, Guang-Can Guo, Lixin He
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 121105(R)(2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6150
abstract: Recently developed tensor network methods demonstrate great potential for addressing the quantum many-body problem, by constructing variational spaces with polynomially, instead of exponentially, scaled parameters. Constructing such an efficient tensor network, and thus the variational space, is a subtle problem and the main obstacle of the method. We demonstrate the necessity of size consistency in tensor network methods for their success in addressing the quantum many-body problem. We further demonstrate that size consistency is independent of the entanglement criterion, thus providing a general and tight constraint to construct the tensor network method.

id: 1304.6160
title: Dynamical noncommutative quantum mechanics
authors: S. A. Alavi, S. Abbaspour
comments: 11 pages, no figures, replaced with the version accepted for publication in "Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical"
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 045303
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6160
abstract: We study some basic and interesting quantum mechanical systems in dynamical noncommutative spaces in which the space- space commutation relations are position dependent. It is observed that the fundamental objects in the dynamical noncommutative space introduced here are stringlike. We show that the Stark effect can be employed to determine whether the noncommutativity of space is dynamical or non-dynamical. It appears that unlike non-dynamical case there is a fundamental energy $\dfrac{\tau\hbar^{2}}{m}$ in this dynamical space.}

id: 1304.6169
title: Boosting the Rotational Sensitivity of Matter-wave Interferometry with Nonlinearity
authors: M. Kol¨¢r, T. Opatrn?, Kunal K. Das
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6169
abstract: We propose a mechanism to use nonlinearity arising from inter-particle interactions to significantly enhance rotation sensitivity of matter-wave interferometers. The method relies on modifying Sagnac interferometers by introducing a weak circular lattice potential that couples modes with opposite orbital angular momenta (OAM). The primary observable comprises of the modal population distributions measured at particular times. This provides an alternate mechanism for rotation sensing that requires substantially smaller ring size, even in the linear non-interacting regime. Nonlinearity can improve the sensitivity, as well as operation timescales, by several orders of magnitude.

id: 1304.6219
title: Polarized ensembles of random pure states
authors: F. D. Cunden, P. Facchi, G. Florio
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 46 (2013) 315306
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6219
abstract: A new family of polarized ensembles of random pure states is presented. These ensembles are obtained by linear superposition of two random pure states with suitable distributions, and are quite manageable. We will use the obtained results for two purposes: on the one hand we will be able to derive an efficient strategy for sampling states from isopurity manifolds. On the other, we will characterize the deviation of a pure quantum state from separability under the influence of noise.

id: 1304.6286
title: Work distribution under continuous quantum histories
authors: Huanan Li, Jian-Sheng Wang
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6286
abstract: We present a general scheme to obtain work distribution in closed systems under continuous quantum histories of corresponding "power" operator. The scheme is tested by analytically calculating the quantum work distribution for a prototype model of a center-shifted one-dimensional quantum harmonic oscillator. Furthermore, its relationship to the path integral formalism with the Wick rotation is immediately noticed. We find that, based on the continuous measurement, generally Jarzynski equality in quantum regime is not valid, though it is recovered in high-temperature limit. Also we briefly explore the extension to open systems, in which the work done and heat transfer can be calculated in the same set of quantum histories. Our results for this model can be directly verified by single-molecule force spectroscopy.

id: 1304.6295
title: Emergent quantum mechanics as a thermal ensemble
authors: P. Fernandez de Cordoba, J.M. Isidro, Milton H. Perea
comments: 16 pages; refs. updated
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6295
abstract: It has been argued that gravity acts dissipatively on quantum-mechanical systems, inducing thermal fluctuations that become indistinguishable from quantum fluctuations. This has led some authors to demand that some form of time irreversibility be incorporated into the formalism of quantum mechanics. As a tool towards this goal we propose a thermodynamical approach to quantum mechanics, based on Onsager's classical theory of irreversible processes and on Prigogine's nonunitary transformation theory. An entropy operator replaces the Hamiltonian as the generator of evolution. The canonically conjugate variable corresponding to the entropy is a dimensionless evolution parameter. Contrary to the Hamiltonian, the entropy operator is not a conserved Noether charge. Our construction succeeds in implementing gravitationally-induced irreversibility in the quantum theory.

id: 1304.6299
title: Tunneling-Induced Restoration of the Degeneracy and the Time-Reversal Symmetry Breaking in Optical Lattices
authors: Tomasz Sowi¨½ski, Mateusz ?acki, Omjyoti Dutta, Joanna Pietraszewicz, Piotr Sierant, Mariusz Gajda, Jakub Zakrzewski, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 215302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6299
abstract: We study the ground-state properties of bosons loaded into the $p$-band of a one dimensional optical lattice. We show that the phase diagram of the system is substantially affected by the anharmonicity of the lattice potential. In particular, for a certain range of tunneling strength, the full many-body ground state of the system becomes degenerate. In this region, an additional symmetry of the system, namely the parity of the occupation number of the chosen orbital, is spontaneously broken. The state with nonvanishing staggered angular momentum, which breaks the time-reversal symmetry, becomes the true ground state of the system.

id: 1304.6300
title: Long-Distance Transfer and Routing of Static Magnetic Fields
authors: Carles Navau, Jordi Prat-Camps, Oriol Romero-Isart, J. Ignacio Cirac, Alvaro Sanchez
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, and Supplementary Material; revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 253901 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6300
abstract: We show how the static magnetic field of a finite source can be transferred and routed to arbitrary long distances. This is achieved by using transformation optics, which results in a device made of a material with a highly anisotropic magnetic permeability. We show that a simplified version of the device, made by a superconducting-ferromagnet hybrid, also leads to an excellent transfer of the magnetic field. The latter is demonstrated with a proof-of-principle experiment where a ferromagnet tube coated with a superconductor improves the transfer of static magnetic fields with respect to conventional methods by a 400\% factor over distances of 14cm.

id: 1304.6402
title: Structure of entanglement in regulated Lorentz invariant field theories
authors: Brian Swingle
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6402
abstract: Regulated Lorentz invariant quantum field theories satisfy an area law for the entanglement entropy $S$ of a spatial subregion in the ground state in $d>1$ spatial dimensions; nevertheless, the full density matrix contains many more than $e^{S}$ non-zero eigenvalues. We ask how well the state of a subregion $R$ in the ground state of such a theory can be approximated when keeping only the $e^{S}$ largest eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix of $R$. We argue that by taking the region $R$ big enough, we can always ensure that keeping roughly $e^{S}$ states leads to bounded error in trace norm even for subregions in gapless ground states. We support these general arguments with an explicit computation of the error in a half-space geometry for a free scalar field in any dimension. Along the way we show that the Renyi entropy of a ball in the ground state of any conformal field theory at small Renyi parameter is controlled by the conventional \textit{thermal entropy density} at low temperatures. We also reobtain and generalize some old results relevant to DMRG on the decay of Schmidt coefficients of intervals in one dimensional ground states. Finally, we discuss the role of the regulator, the insensitivity of our arguments to the precise ultraviolet physics, and the role of adiabatic continuity in our results.

id: 1304.6416
title: Equilibration of Small and Large Subsystems in Field Theories and Matrix Models
authors: Nima Lashkari
comments: 
journal: Comm. in Math. Phys. 333, 3 (2015), 1199
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6416
abstract: It has been recently shown that small subsystems of finite quantum systems generically equilibrate. We extend these results to infinite-dimensional Hilbert spaces of field theories and matrix models. We consider a quench setup, where initial states are chosen from a microcanonical ensemble of finite energy in free theory, and then evolve with an arbitrary non-perturbative Hamiltonian. Given a dynamical assumption on the expectation value of particle number density, we prove that small subsystems reach equilibrium at the level of quantum wave-function, and with respect to all observables. The picture that emerges is that at higher energies, larger subsystems can reach equilibrium. For bosonic fields on a lattice, in the limit of large number of bosons per site, all subsystem smaller than half equilibrate. In the Hermitian matrix model, by contrast, this occurs in the limit of large energy per matrix element, emphasizing the importance of the $O(N^2)$ energy scale for the fast scrambling conjecture. Applying our techniques to continuum field theories on compact spaces, we show that the density matrix of small momentum-space observables equilibrate. Finally, we discuss the connection with scrambling, and provide a sufficient condition for a time-independent Hamiltonian to be a scrambler in terms of the entanglement entropy of its energy eigenstates.

id: 1304.6646
title: Supersymmetric Optical Structures
authors: Mohammad-Ali Miri, Matthias Heinrich, Ramy El-Ganainy, Demetrios N. Christodoulides
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 233902 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6646
abstract: We show that supersymmetry can provide a versatile platform in synthesizing a new class of optical structures with desired properties and functionalities. By exploiting the intimate relationship between superpatners, one can systematically construct index potentials capable of exhibiting the same scattering and guided wave characteristics. In particular, in the Helmholtz regime, we demonstrate that one-dimensional supersymmetric pairs display identical reflectivities and transmittivities for any angle of incidence. Optical SUSY is then extended to two-dimensional systems where a link between specific azimuthal mode subsets is established. Finally we explore supersymmetric photonic lattices where discreteness can be utilized to design lossless integrated mode filtering arrangements.

id: 1304.6845
title: Solving the Schr?dinger eigenvalue problem by the imaginary time propagation technique using splitting methods with complex coefficients
authors: Philipp Bader, Sergio Blanes, Fernando Casas
comments: 12 pages of RevTex4-1, as submitted to journal, revised version
journal: 
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6845
abstract: The Schr\"odinger eigenvalue problem is solved with the imaginary time propagation technique. The separability of the Hamiltonian makes the problem suitable for the application of splitting methods. High order fractional time steps of order greater than two necessarily have negative steps and can not be used for this class of diffusive problems. However, there exist methods which use fractional complex time steps with positive real parts which can be used with only a moderate increase in the computational cost. We analyze the performance of this class of schemes and propose new methods which outperform the existing ones in most cases. On the other hand, if the gradient of the potential is available, methods up to fourth order with real and positive coefficients exist. We also explore this case and propose new methods as well as sixth-order methods with complex coefficients. In particular, highly optimized sixth-order schemes for near integrable systems using positive real part complex coefficients with and without modified potentials are presented. A time-stepping variable order algorithm is proposed and numerical results show the enhanced efficiency of the new methods.

id: 1304.6881
title: Theory of Cold Atoms: Basics of Quantum Statistics
authors: V.I. Yukalov
comments: Tutorial
journal: Laser Phys. 23 (2013) 062001
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6881
abstract: The aim of this Tutorial is to present the basic mathematical techniques required for an accurate description of cold trapped atoms, both Bose and Fermi. The term {\it cold} implies that considered temperatures are low, such that quantum theory is necessary, even if temperatures are finite. And the term {\it atoms} means that the considered particles are structureless, being defined by their masses and mutual interactions. Atoms are {\it trapped} in the sense that they form a finite quantum system, though their number can be very large allowing for the use of the methods of statistical mechanics. This Tutorial is the first part of several tutorials, giving general mathematical techniques for both types of particle statistics. The following tutorials will be devoted separately to Bose atoms and Fermi atoms. The necessity of carefully explaining basic techniques is important for avoiding numerous misconceptions often propagating in literature.

id: 1304.6890
title: Algebraic versus exponential decoherence in dissipative many-particle systems
authors: Zi Cai, Thomas Barthel
comments: 5 pages + 5 pages appendix, 5 figures; minor improvements to the text, added appendix on derivations of Lindblad master equations, added references; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 150403 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6890
abstract: The interplay between dissipation and internal interactions in quantum many-body systems gives rise to a wealth of novel phenomena. Here we investigate spin-1/2 chains with uniform local couplings to a Markovian environment using the time-dependent density matrix renormalization group (tDMRG). For the open XXZ model, we discover that the decoherence time diverges in the thermodynamic limit. The coherence decay is then algebraic instead of exponential. This is due to a vanishing gap in the spectrum of the corresponding Liouville superoperator and can be explained on the basis of a perturbative treatment. In contrast, decoherence in the open transverse-field Ising model is found to be always exponential. In this case, the internal interactions can both facilitate and impede the environment-induced decoherence.

id: 1304.6920
title: Contextual Query Using Bell Tests
authors: Joao Barros, Zeno Toffano, Youssef Meguebli, Bich-Li¨ºn Doan
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6920
abstract: Tests are essential in Information Retrieval and Data Mining in order to evaluate the effectiveness of a query. An automatic measure tool intended to exhibit the meaning of words in context has been developed and linked with Quantum Theory, particularly entanglement. "Quantum like" experiments were undertaken on semantic space based on the Hyperspace Analogue Language (HAL) method. A quantum HAL model was implemented using state vectors issued from the HAL matrix and query observables, testing a wide range of windows sizes. The Bell parameter S, associating measures on two words in a document, was derived showing peaks for specific window sizes. The peaks show maximum quantum violation of the Bell inequalities and are document dependent. This new correlation measure inspired by Quantum Theory could be promising for measuring query relevance.

id: 1304.6921
title: Mean-field optical bistability of two-level atoms in structured reservoirs
authors: G. A. Prataviera, A. C. Yoshida, S. S. Mizrahi
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043831 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6921
abstract: We consider N driven two-level atoms interacting with a structured reservoir. By dressing the collective operators within a semiclassical approach, we derive a master equation and a mean-field single particle effective Hamiltonian. This Hamiltonian describes the optical bistability phenomenon occurring in the relation between an input electromagnetic field and the effective output generated by the N atoms. The dissipative part of the master equation and the effective single-particle Hamiltonian contain new terms due the reservoir structure of modes. In plotting the output field amplitude and phase, for a structured reservoir, as function of the input amplitude, one verifies the bistable behavior in both. We illustrate our results for two structured reservoirs: one having a Lorentzian shape for the distribution of modes, and the second is modeled as a photonic band-gap structure.

id: 1304.6951
title: Observation of Quantum Oscillations in the Photo-assisted Shot Noise of a Tunnel Junction
authors: Gabriel Gasse, Lafe Spietz, Christian Lupien, Bertrand Reulet
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.6951
abstract: We report measurements of the low frequency current fluctuations of a tunnel junction placed at very low temperature biased by a time-dependent voltage $V(t)=V(1+\cos 2\pi\nu t)$. We observe that the excess noise generated by the ac excitation exhibits quantum oscillations as a function of the dc bias, with a period given by $h\nu/e$ with $e$ the charge of a single electron. This is a direct consequence of the quantum nature of electricity in a normal conductor.

id: 1304.7100
title: Dynamics of Entanglement Entropy from Einstein Equation
authors: Masahiro Nozaki, Tokiro Numasawa, Andrea Prudenziati, Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: v2: 24 pages, calculations of translationally invariant limit have been corrected in section 4 and 5. References added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7100
abstract: We study the dynamics of entanglement entropy for weakly excited states in conformal field theories by using the AdS/CFT. This is aimed at a first step to find a counterpart of Einstein equation in the CFT language. In particular, we point out that the entanglement entropy satisfies differential equations which directly correspond to the Einstein equation in several setups of AdS/CFT. We also define a quantity called entanglement density in higher dimensional field theories and study its dynamical property for weakly excited states in conformal field theories.

id: 1304.7234
title: From symmetry-protected topological order to Landau order
authors: Kasper Duivenvoorden, Thomas Quella
comments: 8 pages, 1 table. Version v2 corresponds to the published version. It includes minor revisions and additional references
journal: Phys. Rev. B88 (2013) 125115
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7234
abstract: Focusing on the particular case of the discrete symmetry group Z_N x Z_N, we establish a mapping between symmetry protected topological phases and symmetry broken phases for one-dimensional spin systems. It is realized in terms of a non-local unitary transformation which preserves the locality of the Hamiltonian. We derive the image of the mapping for various phases involved, including those with a mixture of symmetry breaking and topological protection. Our analysis also applies to topological phases in spin systems with arbitrary continuous symmetries of unitary, orthogonal and symplectic type. This is achieved by identifying suitable subgroups Z_N x Z_N in all these groups, together with a bijection between the individual classes of projective representations.

id: 1304.7243
title: Highly collimated source of cold Rubidium atoms from a two dimensional magneto-optical trap
authors: Vincent Carrat, Citlali Cabrera-Guitierez, Marion Jacquey, Jos¨¦ W. Tabosa, Bruno Viaris de Lesegno, Laurence Pruvost
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to required modifications
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7243
abstract: Using a blue detuned laser shaped in a Laguerre-Gaussian donut mode we highly collimate the output of a two dimensional magneto-optical trap. The resulting atomic beam has a 1 mm diameter, its divergence is reduced from 40 down to 3 mrad and the atomic density is increased by a factor of 200. The collimation effect has been studied versus the order of the Laguerre-Gaussian mode (up to 10) and the laser atom frequency detuning (2 to 120 GHz). The 2D-colli-MOT study allows us to determine the best conditions which minimize the atom heating due to residual light absorption and optimize the collimation effect. The 2D-colli MOT could provide a new tool to fill a 3D-MOT using lasers with millimeter range diameters and thus sparing the laser power.

id: 1304.7266
title: Exploiting Rydberg Atom Surface Phonon Polariton Coupling for Single Photon Subtraction
authors: H. K¨¹bler, D. Booth, J. Sedlacek, P. Zabawa, J.P. Shaffer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7266
abstract: We investigate a hybrid quantum system that consists of a superatom coupled to a surface phonon-polariton. We apply this hybrid quantum system to subtract individual photons from a beam of light. Rydberg atom blockade is used to attain absorption of a single photon by an atomic microtrap. Surface phonon-polariton coupling to the superatom then triggers the transfer of the excitation to a storage state, a single Rydberg atom. The approach utilizes the interaction between a superatom and a Markovian bath that acts as a controlled decoherence mechanism to irreversibly project the superatom state into a single Rydberg atom state that can be read out.

id: 1304.7347
title: The Metaplectic Group, the Symplectic Spinor and the Gouy Phase
authors: M. Fernandes, B.J.Hiley
comments: 28 pages. 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7347
abstract: In this paper we discuss a simplified approach to the symplectic Clifford algebra, the symplectic Clifford group and the symplectic spinor by first extending the Heisenberg algebra. We do this by adding a new idempotent element to the algebra. It turns out that this element is the projection operator onto the Dirac standard ket. When this algebra is transformed into the Fock algebra, the corresponding idempotent is the projector onto the vacuum. These additional elements give a very simple way to write down expressions for symplectic spinors as elements of the symplectic Clifford algebra. When this algebra structure is applied to an optical system we find a new way to understand the Gouy effect. It is seen to arise from the covering group, which in this case is the symplectic Clifford group, also known as the metaplectic group. We relate our approach to that of Simon and Mukunda who have shown the relation of the Gouy phase to the Berry phase.

id: 1304.7363
title: Transition radiation from electrons with orbital angular momentum
authors: Anatoly S. Konkov, Alexander P. Potylitsyn, Marina S. Polonskaya
comments: 9 pages with 7 figures
journal: Pisma v ZhETF 100 (2014) 475
subjects: Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7363
abstract: Several experimental groups have recently obtained the so called vortex electrons (electrons with orbital angular momentum (OAM) of l = 100h) with energies of 300 keV. The gyromagnetic ratio of such electrons becomes proportional to the OAM value, which leads to the corresponding increase of the electron magnetic moment. In this paper we investigate the transition radiation from the "charge + magnetic moment" system using the theory of classical electrodynamics. The circular polarization of optical transition radiation amounts up to 70%, which allows to use this effect for the independent measurement of the electron orbital momentum value.

id: 1304.7442
title: Von Neumann entropy and majorization
authors: Yuan Li, Paul Busch
comments: Version 2 contains some corrections and linguistic improvements
journal: Journal of Mathematical Analysis and Applications 408, 384-393 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7442
abstract: We consider the properties of the Shannon entropy for two probability distributions which stand in the relationship of majorization. Then we give a generalization of a theorem due to Uhlmann, extending it to infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces. Finally we show that for any quantum channel $\Phi$, one has $S(\Phi(\rho))=S(\rho)$ for all quantum states $\rho$ if and only if there exists an isometric operator $V$ such that $\Phi(\rho)=V\rho V^*$.

id: 1304.7485
title: Optical control of coherent and squeezed phonons: major differences and similarities
authors: O.V Misochko
comments: 3 pages, talk on The International Conference on Coherent and Nonlinear Optics (ICONO) 2013
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7485
abstract: Coherent and squeezed phonon oscillations can be excited in solids impulsively by a single femtosecond pulse whose duration is shorter that a phonon period. By applying the second ultrafast pump pulse these oscillations can be significantly, but differently modified.

id: 1304.7516
title: Quantum Circuits for GCD Computation with $O(n \log n)$ Depth and O(n) Ancillae
authors: Mehdi Saeedi, Igor L. Markov
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7516
abstract: GCD computations and variants of the Euclidean algorithm enjoy broad uses in both classical and quantum algorithms. In this paper, we propose quantum circuits for GCD computation with $O(n \log n)$ depth with O(n) ancillae. Prior circuit construction needs $O(n^2)$ running time with O(n) ancillae. The proposed construction is based on the binary GCD algorithm and it benefits from log-depth circuits for 1-bit shift, comparison/subtraction, and managing ancillae. The worst-case gate count remains $O(n^2)$, as in traditional circuits.

id: 1304.7568
title: Mid-infrared laser phase-locking to a remote near-infrared frequency reference for high precision molecular spectroscopy
authors: Bruno Chanteau, Olivier Lopez, Wei Zhang, Daniele Nicolodi, B¨¦reng¨¨re Argence, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Auguste, Michel Abgrall, Christian Chardonnet, Giorgio Santarelli, Beno?t Darqui¨¦, Yann Le Coq, Anne Amy-Klein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7568
abstract: We present a new method for accurate mid-infrared frequency measurements and stabilization to a near-infrared ultra-stable frequency reference, transmitted with a long-distance fibre link and continuously monitored against state-of-the-art atomic fountain clocks. As a first application, we measure the frequency of an OsO4 rovibrational molecular line around 10 $\mu$m with a state-of-the-art uncertainty of 8x10-13. We also demonstrate the frequency stabilization of a mid-infrared laser with fractional stability better than 4x10-14 at 1 s averaging time and a line-width below 17 Hz. This new stabilization scheme gives us the ability to transfer frequency stability in the range of 10-15 or even better, currently accessible in the near-infrared or in the visible, to mid-infrared lasers in a wide frequency range.

id: 1304.7570
title: The Child-Langmuir law in the quantum domain
authors: Debabrata Biswas, Raghwendra Kumar
comments: 
journal: Europhysics Letters 102, 58002 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7570
abstract: It is shown using dimensional analysis that the maximum current density J_{QCL} transported on application of a voltage V_g across a gap of size D follows the relation J_{QCL} ~ \hbar^{3 - 2\alpha} V_g^\alpha /D^{5 - 2\alpha}. The classical Child-Langmuir result is recovered at \alpha = 3/2 on demanding that the scaling law be independent of \hbar. For a nanogap in the deep quantum regime, additional inputs in the form of appropriate boundary conditions and the behaviour of the exchange-correlation potential show that \alpha = 5/14. This is verified numerically for several nanogaps. It is also argued that in this regime, the limiting mechanism is quantum reflection from a downhill potential due to a sharp change in slope seen by the electron on emerging through the barrier.

id: 1304.7611
title: Tunable Band Topology Reflected by Fractional Quantum Hall States in Two-Dimensional Lattices
authors: Dong Wang, Zhao Liu, Junpeng Cao, Heng Fan
comments: published version (6 pages, 6 figures, including a supplemental material)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 186804 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7611
abstract: Two-dimensional lattice models subjected to an external effective magnetic field can form nontrivial band topologies characterized by nonzero integer band Chern numbers. In this Letter, we investigate such a lattice model originating from the Hofstadter model and demonstrate that the band topology transitions can be realized by simply introducing tunable longer-range hopping. The rich phase diagram of band Chern numbers is obtained for the simple rational flux density and a classification of phases is presented. In the presence of interactions, the existence of fractional quantum Hall states in both |C|=1 and |C|>1 bands is confirmed, which can reflect the band topologies in different phases. In contrast, when our model reduces to a one-dimensional lattice, the ground states are crucially different from fractional quantum Hall states. Our results may provide insights into the study of new fractional quantum Hall states and experimental realizations of various topological phases in optical lattices.

id: 1304.7696
title: Spectral asymptotics of a strong $¦Ä'$ interaction on a planar loop
authors: Pavel Exner, Michal Jex
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7696
abstract: We consider a generalized Schr\"odinger operator in $L^2(\R^2)$ with an attractive strongly singular interaction of $\delta'$ type characterized by the coupling parameter $\beta>0$ and supported by a $C^4$-smooth closed curve $\Gamma$ of length $L$ without self-intersections. It is shown that in the strong coupling limit, $\beta\to 0_+$, the number of eigenvalues behaves as $\frac{2L}{\pi\beta} + \OO(|\ln\beta|)$, and furthermore, that the asymptotic behaviour of the $j$-th eigenvalue in the same limit is $-\frac{4}{\beta^2} +\mu_j+\OO(\beta|\ln\beta|)$, where $\mu_j$ is the $j$-th eigenvalue of the Schr\"odinger operator on $L^2(0,L)$ with periodic boundary conditions and the potential $-\frac14 \gamma^2$ where $\gamma$ is the signed curvature of $\Gamma$.

id: 1304.7704
title: Single impurities in a Bose-Einstein condensate can make two polaron flavors
authors: A. A. Blinova, M. G. Boshier, Eddy Timmermans
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7704
abstract: Polarons, self-localized composite objects formed by the interaction of a single impurity particle with a host medium, are a paradigm of strong interaction many-body physics. We show that dilute gas Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC's) are the first medium known to self-localize the same impurity particles both in a Landau-Pekar polaron state akin to that of self-localized electrons in a dielectric lattice, and in a bubble state akin to that of electron bubbles in helium. We also show that the BEC-impurity system is fully characterized by just two dimensionless coupling constants, and that it can be adiabatically steered from the Landau-Pekar regime to the bubble regime in a smooth crossover trajectory.

id: 1304.7802
title: Theoretical Description of Coherent Doublon Creation via Lattice Modulation Spectroscopy
authors: A. Dirks, K. Mikelsons, H.R. Krishnamurthy, J.K. Freericks
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 021602(R) (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7802
abstract: Using a recently developed strong-coupling method, we present a comprehensive theory for doublon production processes in modulation spectroscopy of a three-dimensional system of ultracold fermionic atoms in an optical lattice with a trap. The theoretical predictions compare well to the experimental time traces of doublon production. For experimentally feasible conditions, we provide a quantitative prediction for the presence of a nonlinear "two-photon" excitation at strong modulation amplitudes.

id: 1304.7834
title: Noise-assisted quantum electron transfer in photosynthetic complexes
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, Gennady P. Berman, Jos¨¦ Manuel S¨¢nchez Mart¨ªnez, Richard T. Sayre
comments: 15 pages,15 figuras
journal: J. Math. Chem. 51, 2514-2541 (2013)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7834
abstract: Electron transfer (ET) between primary electron donors and acceptors is modeled in the photosystem II reaction center (RC). Our model includes (i) two discrete energy levels associated with donor and acceptor, interacting through a dipole-type matrix element and (ii) two continuum manifolds of electron energy levels ("sinks"), which interact directly with the donor and acceptor. Namely, two discrete energy levels of the donor and acceptor are embedded in their independent sinks through the corresponding interaction matrix elements. We also introduce classical (external) noise which acts simultaneously on the donor and acceptor (collective interaction). We derive a closed system of integro-differential equations which describes the non-Markovian quantum dynamics of the ET. A region of parameters is found in which the ET dynamics can be simplified, and described by coupled ordinary differential equations. Using these simplified equations, both sharp and flat redox potentials are analyzed. We analytically and numerically obtain the characteristic parameters that optimize the ET rates and efficiency in this system.

id: 1304.7860
title: An Interpreter for Quantum Circuits
authors: Lucas Helms, Ruben Gamboa
comments: In Proceedings ACL2 2013, arXiv:1304.7123
journal: EPTCS 114, 2013, pp. 85-94
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7860
abstract: This paper describes an ACL2 interpreter for "netlists" describing quantum circuits. Several quantum gates are implemented, including the Hadamard gate H, which rotates vectors by 45 degrees, necessitating the use of irrational numbers, at least at the logical level. Quantum measurement presents an especially difficult challenge, because it requires precise comparisons of irrational numbers and the use of random numbers. This paper does not address computation with irrational numbers or the generation of random numbers, although future work includes the development of pseudo-random generators for ACL2.

id: 1304.7944
title: Exterior integrability: Yang-Baxter form of nonequilibrium steady state density operator
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Enej Ilievski, Vladislav Popkov
comments: 28 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 15 073051 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7944
abstract: A new type of quantum transfer matrix, arising as a Cholesky factor for the steady state density matrix of a dissipative Markovian process associated with the boundary-driven Lindblad equation for the isotropic spin-1/2 Heisenberg (XXX) chain, is presented. The transfer matrix forms a commuting family of non-Hermitian operators depending on the spectral parameter which is essentially the strength of dissipative coupling at the boundaries. The intertwining of the corresponding Lax and monodromy matrices is performed by an infinitely dimensional Yang-Baxter R-matrix which we construct explicitly and which is essentially different from the standard XXX R-matrix. We also discuss a possibility to construct Bethe Ansatz for the spectrum and eigenstates of the non-equilibrium steady state density operator. Furthermore, we indicate the existence of a deformed R-matrix in the infinitely-dimensional auxiliary space for the anisotropic XXZ spin-1/2 chain which in general provides a sequence of new, possibly quasi-local, conserved quantities of the bulk XXZ dynamics.

id: 1304.8095
title: Experimental realization of Josephson junctions for an Atom SQUID
authors: C. Ryu, A. A. Blinova, P. W. Blackburn, M. G. Boshier
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Replacement to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 205301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.8095
abstract: We report the creation of a pair of Josephson junctions on a toroidal dilute gas Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC), a configuration that is the cold atom analog of the well-known dc superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID). We observe Josephson effects, measure the critical current of the junctions, and find dynamic behavior that is in good agreement with the simple Josephson equations for a tunnel junction with the ideal sinusoidal current-phase relation expected for the parameters of the experiment. The junctions and toroidal trap are created with the painted potential, a time-averaged optical dipole potential technique which will allow scaling to more complex BEC circuit geometries than the single atom-SQUID case reported here. Since rotation plays the same role in the atom SQUID as magnetic field does in the dc SQUID magnetometer, the device has potential as a compact rotation sensor.

id: 1304.7925
title: 1/f noise: implications for solid-state quantum information
authors: E. Paladino, Y. M. Galperin, G. Falci, B. L. Altshuler
comments: Revised manuscript accepted for publication in Rev. Mod. Phys. 63 pages, 44 figures
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 86, 361 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7925
abstract: The efficiency of the future devices for quantum information processing will be limited mostly by the finite decoherence rates of the individual qubits and quantum gates. Recently, substantial progress was achieved in enhancing the time within which a solid-state qubit demonstrates coherent dynamics. This progress is based mostly on a successful isolation of the qubits from external decoherence sources obtained by clever engineering. Under these conditions, the material-inherent sources of noise start to play a crucial role. In most cases, quantum devices are affected by noise decreasing with frequency, f, approximately as 1/f. According to the present point of view, such noise is due to material- and device-specific microscopic degrees of freedom interacting with quantum variables of the nanodevice. The simplest picture is that the environment that destroys the phase coherence of the device can be thought of as a system of two-state fluctuators, which experience random hops between their states. If the hopping times are distributed in a exponentially broad domain, the resulting fluctuations have a spectrum close to 1/f in a large frequency range. In this paper we review the current state of the theory of decoherence due to degrees of freedom producing 1/f noise. We discuss basic mechanisms of such noises in various nanodevices and then review several models describing the interaction of the noise sources with quantum devices. The main focus of the review is to analyze how the 1/f noise destroys their coherent operation. We start from individual qubits concentrating mostly on the devices based on superconductor circuits, and then discuss some special issues related to more complicated architectures. Finally, we consider several strategies for minimizing the noise-induced decoherence.

id: 1304.8086
title: Construction of the mutually orthogonal extraordinary supersquares
authors: Cristian Ghiu, Iulia Ghiu
comments: 
journal: Central European Journal of Mathematics 12, 337 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.8086
abstract: Our purpose is to determine the complete set of mutually orthogonal squares of order $d$, which are not necessary Latin. In this article, we introduce the concept of supersquare of order $d$, which is defined with the help of its generating subgroup in $\mathbb{F}_d\times \mathbb{F}_d$. We present a method of construction of the mutually orthogonal supersquares. Further, we investigate the orthogonality of extraordinary supersquares, a special family of squares, whose generating subgroups are extraordinary. The extraordinary subgroups in $\mathbb{F}_d\times \mathbb{F}_d$ are of great importance in the field of quantum information processing, especially for the study of mutually unbiased bases. We determine the most general complete sets of mutually orthogonal extraordinary supersquares of order 4, which consist in the so-called Type I and Type II. The well-known case of $d-1$ mutually orthogonal Latin squares is only a special case, namely Type I.

id: 1304.7926
title: How to detect a genuine quantum pump effect in graphene?
authors: Colin Benjamin
comments: 5 Pages and 5 figures. Accepted for publication in Applied Physics Letters
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 043120 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.7926
abstract: Quantum pumping in graphene has been predicted in recent years. Till date there have been no experiments indicating a graphene based quantum pump. This is not uncommon as in case of other non-Dirac behavior showing materials it has not yet been unambiguously experimentally detected. The reason being that in experiments with such materials the rectification effect overshadows the pumped current. In this work we answer the question posed in the title by taking recourse to "strain". We show that the symmetries of the rectified and pumped currents towards strain reversal can effectively distinguish between the two.

