id: 1305.0039
title: Nuclear-electronic spin systems, magnetic resonance, and quantum information processing
authors: M. H. Mohammady
comments: Ph.D. Thesis; (v2) removed legacy \newpage commands
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0039
abstract: A promising platform for quantum information processing is that of silicon impurities, where the quantum states are manipulated by magnetic resonance. Such systems, in abstraction, can be considered as a nucleus of arbitrary spin coupled to an electron of spin one-half via an isotropic hyperfine interaction. We therefore refer to them as "nuclear-electronic spin systems". The traditional example, being subject to intensive experimental studies, is that of phosphorus doped silicon (Si:P) which couples a spin one-half electron to a nucleus of the same spin, with a hyperfine strength of 117.5 MHz. More recently, bismuth doped silicon (Si:Bi) has been suggested as an alternative instantiation of nuclear-electronic spin systems, differing from Si:P by its larger nuclear spin and hyperfine strength of 9/2 and 1.4754 GHz respectively. The aim of this thesis has been to develop a model that is capable of predicting the magnetic resonance properties of nuclear-electronic spin systems. The theoretical predictions of this model have been tested against experimental data collected on Si:Bi at 4.044 GHz, and have proven quite successful. Furthermore, the larger nuclear spin and hyperfine strength of Si:Bi, compared with that of Si:P, are predicted to offer advantages for quantum information processing. Most notable amongst these is that magnetic field-dependent two-dimensional decoherence free subspaces, called optimal working points, have been identified to exist in Si:Bi, but not Si:P.

id: 1305.0053
title: Weak valued statistics as fundamental explanation of quantum physics
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 5 pages, contribution to the proceedings of QIT28 held May 27th to 28th in Sapporo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0053
abstract: Recently, weak measurements have attracted a lot of interest as an experimental method for the investigation of non-classical correlations between observables that cannot be measured jointly. Here, I explain how the complex valued statistics observed in weak measurements relate to the operator algebra of the conventional Hilbert space formalism and show that the algebra of operators originates from more fundamental relations between the physical properties of a quantum system that can be expressed in terms of complex conditional probabilities. In particular, commutation relations can be identified with fundamental imaginary correlations that characterize the relations between physical properties in terms of their transformation dynamics. Non-commutativity thus originates from a definition of relations between physical properties that replaces the assumption of joint reality with a complex-valued probability reflecting the dynamical response of the system to external forces, e.g. in measurement interactions.

id: 1305.0065
title: Dissipative Dicke model with non-linear atom-photon interaction
authors: A L Grimsmo, A S Parkins
comments: 25 pages, 16 figures
journal: J. Phys. B, 46, 224012, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0065
abstract: We study a generalized Dicke model, as recently realized in an atomic quantum gas experiment, describing the collective interaction of N two-level atoms with a single cavity mode. The model takes account of dissipation of the cavity field, and includes a non-linear atom-photon coupling, not present in the conventional Dicke model. We extend previous theoretical investigations of a semiclassical model by including all quantum effects and considering finite atom number N . Our results show good agreement between quantum expectation values and the semiclassical model as N is increased, but also show exotic behaviour for the corresponding quantum state as the non-linear atom-photon coupling is varied.

id: 1305.0066
title: Quantum-Limited Mirror-Motion Estimation
authors: Kohjiro Iwasawa, Kenzo Makino, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Mankei Tsang, Aleksandar Davidovic, Elanor Huntington, Akira Furusawa
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 163602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0066
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate optomechanical motion and force measurements near the quantum precision limits set by the quantum Cram\'er-Rao bounds (QCRBs). Optical beams in coherent and phase-squeezed states are used to measure the motion of a mirror under an external stochastic force. Utilizing optical phase tracking and quantum smoothing techniques, we achieve position, momentum, and force estimation accuracies close to the QCRBs with the coherent state, while estimation using squeezed states shows clear quantum enhancements beyond the coherent-state bounds.

id: 1305.0068
title: Parasitic nonlinearities in photon pair generation via integrated spontaneous four-wave mixing: critical problem or distraction?
authors: L. G. Helt, M. J. Steel, J. E. Sipe
comments: 
journal: Appl.Phys.Lett. 102 (2013) 201106:1-5
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0068
abstract: We consider integrated photon pair sources based on spontaneous four-wave mixing and derive expressions for the pump powers at which various nonlinear processes become relevant for a variety of source materials and structures. These expressions serve as rules of thumb in identifying reasonable parameter regimes for the design of such sources. We demonstrate that if pump powers are kept low enough to suppress cross-phase modulation, multi-pair events as well as many other nonlinear effects are often also constrained to negligible levels.

id: 1305.0128
title: Robustness of quantum randomness expansion protocols in the presence of noise
authors: Piotr Mironowicz, Marcin Paw?owski
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032319 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0128
abstract: In this paper we investigate properties of several randomness generation protocols in the device independent framework. Using Bell-type inequalities it is possible to certify that the numbers generated by an untrusted device are indeed random. We present a selection of certificates which guarantee two bits of randomness for each run of the experiment in the noiseless case and require the parties to share a maximally entangled state. To compare them we study their efficiency in the presence of white noise. We find that for different amounts of noise different operators are optimal for certifying most randomness. Therefore the vendor of the device should use different protocols depending on the amount of noise expected to occur. Another of our results that we find particularly interesting is that using a single Bell operator as a figure of merit is rarely optimal.

id: 1305.0132
title: Entangler via Electromagnetically Induced Transparency with Atomic Ensembles
authors: Xihua Yang, Yuanyuan Zhou, Min Xiao
comments: 14pages, 3figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0132
abstract: We present an efficient and convenient scheme to entangle multiple optical fields via electromagnetically induced transparency in an atomic ensemble. The atomic spin wave, produced through electromagnetically induced transparency in the Lambda-type configuration in an atomic ensemble, can be described by a Bose operator and acts as the entangler. By using the entangler, any desired number of nondegenerate narrow-band continuous-variable entangled fields, in principle, can be generated through stimulated Raman scattering processes, which holds great promise for applications in scalable quantum communication and quantum networks.

id: 1305.0157
title: Observation of Time-domain Rabi Oscillations in the Landau-Zener Regime with a Single Electronic Spin
authors: Jingwei Zhou, Pu Huang, Qi Zhang, Zixiang Wang, Tian Tan, Xiangkun Xu, Fazhan Shi, Xing Rong, S. Ashhab, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 010503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0157
abstract: Under resonant conditions, a long sequence of landau-zener transitions can lead to Rabi oscillations. Using a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center spin in diamond, we investigated the interference between more than 100 Landau-Zener processes. We observed the new type of Rabi oscillations of the electron spin resulting from the interference between successive Landau-Zener processes in various regimes, including both slow and fast passages. The combination of the control techniques and the favorable coherent properties of NV centers provides an excellent experimental platform to study a variety of quantum dynamical phenomena.

id: 1305.0158
title: Demonstration of Free-space Reference Frame Independent Quantum Key Distribution
authors: J. Wabnig, D. Bitauld, H. W. Li, A. Laing, J. L. O'Brien, A. O. Niskanen
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 073001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0158
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) is moving from research laboratories towards applications. As computing becomes more mobile, cashless as well as cardless payment solutions are introduced, and a need arises for incorporating QKD in a mobile device. Handheld devices present a particular challenge as the orientation and the phase of a qubit will depend on device motion. This problem is addressed by the reference frame independent (RFI) QKD scheme. The scheme tolerates an unknown phase between logical states that varies slowly compared to the rate of particle repetition. Here we experimentally demonstrate the feasibility of RFI QKD over a free-space link in a prepare and measure scheme using polarisation encoding. We extend the security analysis of the RFI QKD scheme to be able to deal with uncalibrated devices and a finite number of measurements. Together these advances are an important step towards mass production of handheld QKD devices.

id: 1305.0168
title: The classical limit of quantum optics: not what it seems at first sight
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Alonso Botero, Shmuel Nussinov, Sandu Popescu, Jeff Tollaksen, Lev Vaidman
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 093006 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0168
abstract: What is light and how to describe it has always been a central subject in physics. As our understanding has increased, so have our theories changed: Geometrical optics, wave optics and quantum optics are increasingly sophisticated descriptions, each referring to a larger class of phenomena than its predecessor. But how exactly are these theories related? How and when wave optics reduces to geometric optics is a rather simple problem. Similarly, how quantum optics reduces to wave optics has been considered to be a very simple business as well. It's not so. As we show here the classical limit of quantum optics is a far more complicated issue; it is in fact dramatically more involved and it requires a complete revision of all our intuitions. The revised intuitions can then serve as a guide to finding novel quantum effects.

id: 1305.0212
title: Experimental characterization of universal one-way quantum computing
authors: B. A. Bell, M. S. Tame, A. S. Clark, R. W. Nock, W. J. Wadsworth, J. G. Rarity
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 053030 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0212
abstract: We report the characterization of a universal set of logic gates for one-way quantum computing using a four-photon `star' cluster state generated by fusing photons from two independent photonic crystal fibre sources. We obtain a fidelity for the cluster state of 0.66 +/- 0.01 with respect to the ideal case. We perform quantum process tomography to completely characterize a controlled-NOT, Hadamard and T gate all on the same compact entangled resource. Together, these operations make up a universal set of gates such that arbitrary quantum logic can be efficiently constructed from combinations of them. We find process fidelities with respect to the ideal cases of 0.64 +/- 0.01 for the CNOT, 0.67 +/- 0.03 for the Hadamard and 0.76 +/- 0.04 for the T gate. The characterisation of these gates enables the simulation of larger protocols and algorithms. As a basic example, we simulate a Swap gate consisting of three concatenated CNOT gates. Our work provides some pragmatic insights into the prospects for building up to a fully scalable and fault-tolerant one-way quantum computer with photons in realistic conditions.

id: 1305.0225
title: A quantum non-Markovian collision model: incoherent swap case
authors: Francesco Ciccarello, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Scr. T153, 014010 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0225
abstract: We have recently presented a collision-model-based framework to approach non-Markovian quantum dynamics [Ciccarello F Palma G M and Giovannetti V 2013 Phys. Rev. A 87, 040103(R)]. As a distinctive feature, memory is introduced in a dynamical way by adding extra inter-ancillary collisions to a standard (memoryless) collision model. Here, we focus on the case where such intra-bath collisions are described by incoherent partial swap operations. After briefly reviewing the model, we show how to include temperature as an additional parameter by relaxing the assumption that each bath ancilla is initially in a pure state. We also calculate explicitly the dynamical map entailed by the master equation in the paradigmatic instance of a Jaynes-Cummings system-ancilla coupling.

id: 1305.0257
title: Non-Positive Partial Transpose Subspaces Can be as Large as Any Entangled Subspace
authors: Nathaniel Johnston
comments: 4 pages, v2 contains minor updates such as typo fixes and additional references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 064302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0257
abstract: It is known that, in an $(m \otimes n)$-dimensional quantum system, the maximum dimension of a subspace that contains only entangled states is (m-1)(n-1). We show that the exact same bound is tight if we require the stronger condition that every state with range in the subspace has non-positive partial transpose. As an immediate corollary of our result, we solve an open question that asks for the maximum number of negative eigenvalues of the partial transpose of a quantum state. In particular, we give an explicit method of construction of a bipartite state whose partial transpose has (m-1)(n-1) negative eigenvalues, which is necessarily maximal, despite recent numerical evidence that suggested such states may not exist for large m and n.

id: 1305.0290
title: Driving a mechanical resonator in to coherent states via random measurements
authors: Lluc Garcia, Ravindra W. Chhajlany, Yong Li, Lian-Ao Wu
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 485305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0290
abstract: We propose dynamical schemes to engineer coherent states of a mechanical resonator coupled to an ancillary, superconducting flux qubit. The flux qubit, when repeatedly projected on to its ground state drives the mechanical resonator in to a coherent state in probabilistic, albeit heralded fashion. Assuming no operations on the state of the mechanical resonator during the protocol, coherent states are successfully generated only up to a certain value of the displacement parameter. This restriction can be overcome at the cost of a one-time operation on the initial state of the mechanical resonator. We discuss the possibility of experimental realization of the presented schemes.

id: 1305.0305
title: Network-Centric Quantum Communications with Application to Critical Infrastructure Protection
authors: Richard J. Hughes, Jane E. Nordholt, Kevin P. McCabe, Raymond T. Newell, Charles G. Peterson, Rolando D. Somma
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0305
abstract: Network-centric quantum communications (NQC) - a new, scalable instantiation of quantum cryptography providing key management with forward security for lightweight encryption, authentication and digital signatures in optical networks - is briefly described. Results from a multi-node experimental test-bed utilizing integrated photonics quantum communications components, known as QKarDs, include: quantum identification; verifiable quantum secret sharing; multi-party authenticated key establishment, including group keying; and single-fiber quantum-secured communications that can be applied as a security retrofit/upgrade to existing optical fiber installations. A demonstration that NQC meets the challenging simultaneous latency and security requirements of electric grid control communications, which cannot be met without compromises using conventional cryptography, is described.

id: 1305.0349
title: Comparison of ancilla preparation and measurement procedures for the Steane [[7,1,3]] code on a model ion trap quantum computer
authors: Yu Tomita, Mauricio Guti¨¦rrez, Chingiz Kabytayev, Kenneth R. Brown, M. R. Hutsel, A. P. Morris, Kelly E. Stevens, G. Mohler
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042336 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0349
abstract: We schedule the Steane [[7,1,3]] error correction on a model ion trap architecture with ballistic transport. We compare the level one error rates for syndrome extraction using the Shor method of ancilla prepared in verified cat states to the DiVincenzo-Aliferis method without verification. The study examines how the quantum error correction circuit latency and error vary with the number of available ancilla and the choice of protocol for ancilla preparation and measurement. We find that with few exceptions the DiVincenzo-Aliferis method without cat state verification outperforms the standard Shor method. We also find that additional ancilla always reduces the latency but does not significantly change the error due to the high memory fidelity.

id: 1305.0409
title: Detecting Topological Entanglement Entropy in a Lattice of Quantum Harmonic Oscillators
authors: Tommaso F. Demarie, Trond Linjordet, Nicolas C. Menicucci, Gavin K. Brennen
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures, added section about correlations length and study of the topological logarithmic negativity. Typos fixed. Comments welcome
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 085011 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0409
abstract: The Kitaev surface-code model is the most studied example of a topologically ordered phase and typically involves four-spin interactions on a two-dimensional surface. A universal signature of this phase is topological entanglement entropy (TEE), but due to low signal to noise, it is extremely difficult to observe in these systems, and one usually resorts to measuring anyonic statistics of excitations or non-local string operators to reveal the order. We describe a continuous-variable analog to the surface code using quantum harmonic oscillators on a two-dimensional lattice, which has the distinctive property of needing only two-body nearest-neighbor interactions for its creation. Though such a model is gapless, satisfies an area law, and the ground state can be simply prepared by measurements on a finitely squeezed and gapped two-dimensional cluster state, which does not have topological order. Asymptotically, the TEE grows linearly with the squeezing parameter, and we show that its mixed-state generalization, the topological mutual information, is robust to some forms of state preparation error and can be detected simply using single-mode quadrature measurements. Finally, we discuss scalable implementation of these methods using optical and circuit-QED technology.

id: 1305.0410
title: Exact Quantum Correlations of Conjugate Variables From Joint Quadrature Measurements
authors: S. M. Roy
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physics Letters A377 (2013) 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0410
abstract: We demonstrate that for two canonically conjugate operators $\hat{q},\hat {p} $,the global correlation $\langle \hat{q} \hat {p} + \hat{p} \hat {q} \rangle -2 \langle \hat{q}\rangle \langle \hat {p}\rangle$, and the local correlations $\langle \hat{q} \rangle (p) - \langle \hat{q}\rangle$ and $\langle \hat{p} \rangle (q)-\langle \hat {p}\rangle$ can be measured exactly by Von Neumann-Arthurs-Kelly joint quadrature measurements . These correlations provide a sensitive experimental test of quantum phase space probabilities quite distinct from the probability densities of $ q,p $. E.g. for EPR states, and entangled generalized coherent states, phase space probabilities which reproduce the correct position and momentum probability densities have to be modified to reproduce these correlations as well.

id: 1305.0418
title: Structure identification and state initialization of spin networks with limited access
authors: Yuzuru Kato, Naoki Yamamoto
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16 023024 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0418
abstract: For reliable and consistent quantum information processing carried out on a quantum network, the network structure must be fully known and a desired initial state must be accurately prepared on it. In this paper, for a class of spin networks with its single node only accessible, we provide two continuous-measurement-based methods to achieve the above requirements; the first one identifies the unknown network structure with high probability, based on continuous-time Bayesian update of the graph structure; the second one is, with the use of adaptive measurement technique, able to deterministically drive any mixed state to a spin coherent state for network initialization.

id: 1305.0444
title: Quantum atom-light interfaces in the gaussian description for spin-1 systems
authors: Giorgio Colangelo, Robert J. Sewell, Naeimeh Behbood, Ferran Martin Ciurana, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 25 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 103007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0444
abstract: We extend the covariance-matrix description of atom--light quantum interfaces, originally developed for real and effective spin-1/2 atoms, to include "spin alignment" degrees of freedom. This allows accurate modeling of optically-probed spin-1 ensembles in arbitrary magnetic fields. We also include technical noise terms that are very common in experimental situations. These include magnetic field noise, variable atom number and the effect of magnetic field inhomogeneities. We demonstrate the validity of our extended model by comparing numerical simulations to a free--induction decay (FID) measurement of polarized $^{87}$Rb atoms in the $f = 1$ ground state. We qualitatively and quantitatively reproduce experimental results with all free parameters of the simulations fixed. The model can be easily extended to larger spin systems, and adapted to more complicated experimental situations.

id: 1305.0461
title: The Dirac Quantum Cellular Automaton in one dimension: Zitterbewegung and scattering from potential
authors: Alessandro Bisio, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Alessandro Tosini
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0461
abstract: We study the dynamical behaviour of the quantum cellular automaton of Refs. [1, 2], which reproduces the Dirac dynamics in the limit of small wavevectors and masses. We present analytical evaluations along with computer simulations, showing how the automaton exhibits typical Dirac dynamical features, as the Zitterbewegung and the scattering behaviour from potential that gives rise to the so-called Klein paradox. The motivation is to show concretely how pure processing of quantum information can lead to particle mechanics as an emergent feature, an issue that has been the focus of solid-state, optical and atomic-physics quantum simulator.

id: 1305.0495
title: Regular Hamiltonians for non-relativistic interacting quantum field theories
authors: Bruno Galvan
comments: 22 + 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0495
abstract: In the context of non-relativistic quantum field theory, a method is proposed for multiplying field operators at the same spatial point and obtaining regular (i.e. rigorously defined) interaction terms for the Hamiltonian. The basic idea is to modify the Lebesgue measure of configuration space of many particles by adding singular measures over the subspaces of configuration space in which the positions of two or more particles coincide.

id: 1305.0504
title: Real time evolution at finite temperatures with operator space matrix product states
authors: Iztok Pizorn, Viktor Eisler, Sabine Andergassen, Matthias Troyer
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 073007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0504
abstract: We propose a method to simulate the real time evolution of one dimensional quantum many-body systems at finite temperature by expressing both the density matrices and the observables as matrix product states. This allows the calculation of expectation values and correlation functions as scalar products in operator space. The simulations of density matrices in inverse temperature and the local operators in the Heisenberg picture are independent and result in a grid of expectation values for all intermediate temperatures and times. Simulations can be performed using real arithmetics with only polynomial growth of computational resources in inverse temperature and time for integrable systems. The method is illustrated for the XXZ model and the single impurity Anderson model.

id: 1305.0506
title: Quantum Simulation of Noncausal Kinematic Transformations
authors: U. Alvarez-Rodriguez, J. Casanova, L. Lamata, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Published in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 090503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0506
abstract: We propose the implementation of Galileo group symmetry operations or, in general, linear coordinate transformations, in a quantum simulator. With an appropriate encoding, unitary gates applied to our quantum system give rise to Galilean boosts or spatial and time parity operations in the simulated dynamics. This framework provides us with a flexible toolbox that enhances the versatility of quantum simulation theory, allowing the direct access to dynamical quantities that would otherwise require full tomography. Furthermore, this method enables the study of noncausal kinematics and phenomena beyond special relativity in a quantum controllable system.

id: 1305.0633
title: Improving Polarisation Squeezing In Sagnac Interferometer Configuration Using Photonic Crystal Fibre
authors: Morgan J. Tacey, Joel F. Corney
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0633
abstract: The greater confinement of light that is possible in photonic crystal fibres leads to a greater effective nonlin- earity, which promises to yield greater quantum squeezing than is possible in standard optical fibre. However, experimental work to date has not achieved improvements over standard fibre. We present a comprehensive numerical investigation of polarisation squeezing in photonic crystal fibre in a Sagnac configuration. By including loss, a non-instantaneous Raman response, excess phase-noise, second- and third-order dispersion and self-steepening, the simulations are able to identify the physical factors that limit current photonic crystal fibre squeezing experiments.

id: 1305.0662
title: Entropic measure and hypergraph states
authors: Ri Qu, Yi-ping Ma, Yan-ru Bao, Juan Wang, Zong-shang Li
comments: 11 pages; 1 figure
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 13, 249 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0662
abstract: We investigate some properties of the entanglement of hypergraph states in purely hypergraph theoretical terms. We first introduce an approach for computing local entropic measure on qubit t of a hypergraph state by using the Hamming weight of the so-called t-adjacent subhypergraph. Then we quantify and characterize the entanglement of hypergraph states in terms of local entropic measures obtained by using the above approach. Our results show that a class of n-qubit hypergraph states can not be converted into any graph state under local unitary transformations.

id: 1305.0681
title: Past quantum states
authors: S?ren Gammelmark, Brian Julsgaard, Klaus M?lmer
comments: Main text: 5 pages, 3 figures. Supplementary Material: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 160401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0681
abstract: A density matrix {\rho}(t) yields probabilistic information about the outcome of measurements on a quantum system. We introduce here the past quantum state, which, at time T, accounts for the state of a quantum system at earlier times t < T. The past quantum state {\Xi}(t) is composed of two objects, {\rho}(t) and E(t), conditioned on the dynamics and the probing of the system until t and in the time interval [t, T], respectively. The past quantum state is characterized by its ability to make better predictions for the unknown outcome of projective and weak value measurements at t than the conventional quantum state at that time. On the one hand, our formalism shows how smoothing procedures for estimation of past classical signals by a quantum probe [M. Tsang, Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 250403, (2009)] apply also to describe the past state of the quantum system itself. On the other hand, it generalizes theories of pre- and post-selected quantum states [Y. Aharonov and L. Vaidman, J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 24, 2315 (1991)] to systems subject to any quantum measurement scenario, any coherent evolution, and any Markovian dissipation processes.

id: 1305.0788
title: Quantum Entanglement for Systems of Identical Bosons. Spin Squeezing and Other Entanglement Tests in Two Mode Systems
authors: Bryan Dalton, Libby Heaney, John Goold, Thomas Busch, Barry Garraway
comments: Version 5. Other Authors Added. Table of Contents included. Further Reordering and Minor Revisions. Four figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0788
abstract: The concept of entangled quantum states is considered in the context of systems of identical particles, based on the requirement that in order to represent physical states both for the overall system and the sub-systems which may be entangled, the density operators must satisfy the symmetrisation principle and global and local super-selection rules that prohibit states in which there are coherences between differing particle numbers. These requirements and their justification are fully discussed. In the second quantisation approach used, both the system and the sub-systems are modes (or sets of modes) rather than particles, particles being associated with different occupancies of the modes. The definition of entangled states is based on first defining the non-entangled states - after specifying which modes constitute the sub-systems. This paper mainly focuses on two mode entanglement for massive bosons. Several inequalities involving variances and mean values of operators involving mode annihilation, creation operators have been proposed as tests for two mode entangled states, including the inequalities that define spin squeezing. Spin squeezing criteria in two mode systems are examined, and spin squeezing is best considered for principle spin operator components where the covariance matrix is diagonal. It is shown that the presence of spin squeezing in at least one of the spin components requires entanglement of the relevant pair of modes. Several of the other proposed tests for entanglement, including ones based on the sum of the variances for two spin components are considered. All of the tests are still valid when the present concept of entanglement based on the symmetrisation and super-selection rule criteria is applied, but further tests have been obtained here. Sometimes the new tests are satisfied whilst than those obtained in other papers are not.

id: 1305.0805
title: Accessing quantum secrets via local operations and classical communication
authors: Vlad Gheorghiu, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, replaced with the PRA published version
journal: Physical Review A 88, 022340 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0805
abstract: Quantum secret-sharing and quantum error-correction schemes rely on multipartite decoding protocols, yet the non-local operations involved are challenging and sometimes infeasible. Here we construct a quantum secret-sharing protocol with a reduced number of quantum communication channels between the players. Our scheme is based on embedding a classical linear code into a quantum error-correcting code. Our work paves the way towards the more general problem of simplifying the decoding of quantum error-correcting codes.

id: 1305.0810
title: Optimization of Clifford Circuits
authors: Vadym Kliuchnikov, Dmitri Maslov
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052307 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0810
abstract: We study optimal synthesis of Clifford circuits, and apply the results to peep-hole optimization of quantum circuits. We report optimal circuits for all Clifford operations with up to four inputs. We perform peep-hole optimization of Clifford circuits with up to 40 inputs found in the literature, and demonstrate the reduction in the number of gates by about 50%. We extend our methods to the optimal synthesis of linear reversible circuits, partially specified Clifford functions, and optimal Clifford circuits with five inputs up to input/output permutation. The results find their application in randomized benchmarking protocols, quantum error correction, and quantum circuit optimization.

id: 1305.0848
title: Bound entangled states with a private key and their classical counterpart
authors: Maris Ozols, Graeme Smith, John A. Smolin
comments: This version matches with the published version and includes changes suggested by referees. We added a new appendix on distillation with remanent devices and also discuss the 4x5 example in more detail. A Mathematica notebook with source code is included
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 110502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0848
abstract: Entanglement is a fundamental resource for quantum information processing. In its pure form, it allows quantum teleportation and sharing classical secrets. Realistic quantum states are noisy and their usefulness is only partially understood. Bound-entangled states are central to this question---they have no distillable entanglement, yet sometimes still have a private classical key. We present a construction of bound-entangled states with private key based on classical probability distributions. From this emerge states possessing a new classical analogue of bound entanglement, distinct from the long-sought bound information. We also find states of smaller dimensions and higher key rates than previously known. Our construction has implications for classical cryptography: we show that existing protocols are insufficient for extracting private key from our distributions due to their "bound-entangled" nature. We propose a simple extension of existing protocols that can extract key from them.

id: 1305.0861
title: Comment on "Fringe Visibility and Which-Way Information: An Inequality"
authors: F. De Zela
comments: 1 page, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0861
abstract: We comment on one of the earliest derivations of the so-called wave-particle duality relation. Our aim is to point out a slight technical flaw in the proof, fixing it. Neither the physical content of the duality relation nor its validity is thereby questioned.

id: 1305.0878
title: Vacuum-assisted generation and control of atomic coherences at x-ray energies
authors: Kilian P. Heeg, Hans-Christian Wille, Kai Schlage, Tatyana Guryeva, Daniel Schumacher, Ingo Uschmann, Kai S. Schulze, Berit Marx, Tino K?mpfer, Gerhard G. Paulus, Ralf R?hlsberger, J?rg Evers
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0878
abstract: The control of light-matter interaction at the quantum level usually requires coherent laser fields. But already an exchange of virtual photons with the electromagnetic vacuum field alone can lead to quantum coherences, which subsequently suppress spontaneous emission. We demonstrate such spontaneously generated coherences (SGC) in a large ensemble of nuclei operating in the x-ray regime, resonantly coupled to a common cavity environment. The observed SGC originates from two fundamentally different mechanisms related to cooperative emission and magnetically controlled anisotropy of the cavity vacuum. This approach opens new perspectives for quantum control, quantum state engineering and simulation of quantum many-body physics in an essentially decoherence-free setting.

id: 1305.0885
title: A cloned qutrit and its utility in information processing tasks
authors: Sovik Roy, Nirman Ganguly, Atul Kumar, Satyabrata Adhikari, A. S. Majumdar
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing 13, 629 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0885
abstract: We analyze the efficacy of an output as a resource from a universal quantum cloning machine in information processing tasks such as teleportation and dense coding. For this, we have considered the $3 \otimes 3$ dimensional systems. The output states are found to be NPT states for a certain range of machine parameters. Using the output state as an entangled resource, we also study the optimal fidelities of teleportation and capacities of dense coding protocols with respect to the machine parameters and make some interesting observations. Our work is motivated from the fact that the cloning output can be used as a resource in quantum information processing and adds a valuable dimension to the applications of cloning machines.

id: 1305.0932
title: Negative Conditional Entropy of Post-Selected States
authors: Sina Salek, Roman Schubert, Karoline Wiesner
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022116 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0932
abstract: We define a quantum entropy conditioned on post-selection which has the von Neumann entropy of pure states as a special case. This conditional entropy can take negative values which is consistent with part of a quantum system containing less information than the whole which can be in a pure state. The definition is based on generalised density operators for postselected ensembles. The corresponding density operators are consistent with the quantum generalisation of classical conditional probabilities following Dirac s formalism of quasiprobability distributions.

id: 1305.0949
title: Ideal quantum clocks and operator time
authors: Walter Gessner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0949
abstract: In the framework of any quantum theory in the Schroedinger picture a general operator time concept is given. For this purpose certain systems are emphasized as ideal quantum clocks. Their definition follows heuristically from a common property of ideal clocks and from general postulates of traditional quantum theory. Any such ideal quantum clock allows the definition of a symmetric time operator T. T and the Hamiltonian H necessarily satisfy the time-energy uncertainty relation. The argument of Pauli against the existence of any time operator does not strike, because T is symmetric but not selfadjoint.

id: 1305.0960
title: Large-Alphabet Time-Frequency Entangled Quantum Key Distribution by means of Time-to-Frequency Conversion
authors: J. Nunn, L. Wright, C. S?ller, L. Zhang, I. A. Walmsley, B. J. Smith
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0960
abstract: We introduce a novel time-frequency quantum key distribution (TFQKD) scheme based on photon pairs entangled in these two conjugate degrees of freedom. The scheme uses spectral detection and phase modulation to enable measurements in the temporal basis by means of time-to-frequency conversion. This allows large-alphabet encoding to be implemented with realistic components. A general security analysis for TFQKD with binned measurements reveals a close connection with finite-dimensional QKD protocols and enables analysis of the effects of dark counts on the secure key size.

id: 1305.0970
title: Geometric momentum for a particle constrained on a curved hypersurface
authors: Q. H. Liu
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 122113 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0970
abstract: A strengthened canonical quantization scheme for the constrained motion on a curved hypersurface is proposed with introduction of the second category of fundamental commutation relations between Hamiltonian and positions/momenta, whereas those between positions and moments are categorized into the first. As an $N-1$ ($N\geq2$) dimensional hypersurface is embedded in an N dimensional Euclidean space, we obtain the proper momentum that depends on the mean curvature. For the surface is the spherical one, a long-standing problem on the form of the geometric potential is resolved in a lucid and unambiguous manner, which turns out to be identical to that given by the so-called confining potential technique. In addition, a new dynamical group SO(N,1) symmetry for the motion on the sphere is demonstrated.

id: 1305.0985
title: Prethermalization and dynamical transition in an isolated trapped ion spin chain
authors: Zhe-Xuan Gong, L.-M. Duan
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 113051 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0985
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to observe prethermalization and dynamical transition in one-dimensional XY spin chain with long range interaction and inhomogeneous lattice spacing, which can be readily implemented with the recently developed trapped-ion quantum simulator. Local physical observables are found to relax to prethermal values at intermediate time scale, followed by complete relaxation to thermal values at much longer time. The physical origin of prethermalization is explained by spotting a non-trivial structure in lower half of the energy spectrum. The dynamical behavior of the system is shown to cross difference phases when the interaction range is continuously tuned, indicating the existence of dynamical phase transition.

id: 1305.0986
title: A Flexible Source of Non-Degenerate Entangled Photons Based on a Two-Crystal Sagnac Interferometer
authors: Terence E. Stuart, Joshua A. Slater, Felix Bussieres, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0986
abstract: Sources of entangled photon pairs are a key component in both fundamental tests of quantum theory and practical applications such as quantum key distribution and quantum computing. In this work, we describe and characterize a source of polarization entangled photon pairs based on two spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) crystals in a Sagnac interferometer. Our source is compact and produces high-quality entangled states in a very flexible manner. The wavelengths of the photon pairs, around 810 and 1550 nm, the phase between orthogonal components of the entangled state, and the tangle of the state are all independently adjustable. In addition to presenting basic characterization data, we present experimental violations of CHSH and Leggett inequalities, as well as an instance of the "beautiful" Bell inequality, which has not previously been tested experimentally.

id: 1305.0990
title: Device-independent randomness amplification with a single device
authors: Martin Plesch, Matej Pivoluska
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures, accepted in PLA
journal: Physics Letters A 378 (2014), pp. 2938-2944
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0990
abstract: Expansion and amplification of weak randomness with untrusted quantum devices has recently become a very fruitful topic of research. Here we contribute with a procedure for amplifying a single weak random source using tri-partite GHZ-type entangled states. If the quality of the source reaches a fixed threshold $R=\frac{1}{4}\log_{2}(10)$, perfect random bits can be produced. This technique can be used to extract randomness from sources that can't be extracted neither classically, nor by existing procedures developed for Santha-Vazirani sources. Our protocol works with a single fault-free device decomposable into three non-communicating parts, that is repeatedly reused throughout the amplification process.

id: 1305.1000
title: Electrons in Magnetic Mirror Geometry
authors: R. A. Treumann, W. Baumjohann
comments: No figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Space Physics (physics.space-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1000
abstract: Landau's theory of electron motion in stationary magnetic fields is extended to the inclusion of bouncing along the field between mirror points in an inhomogeneous field. The problem can be treated perturbation theoretically. As expected, bouncing is quantized, causes a weak shift in Landau levels, reduces parallel degeneracy, but does not contribute to diamagnetism.

id: 1305.1021
title: Parameterized Quantum Query Complexity of Graph Collision
authors: Andris Ambainis, Kaspars Balodis, J¨¡nis Iraids, Raitis Ozols, Juris Smotrovs
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, submitted to ICALP workshop "Workshop on Quantum and Classical Complexity" in 5/5/2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1021
abstract: We present three new quantum algorithms in the quantum query model for \textsc{graph-collision} problem: \begin{itemize} \item an algorithm based on tree decomposition that uses $O\left(\sqrt{n}t^{\sfrac{1}{6}}\right)$ queries where $t$ is the treewidth of the graph; \item an algorithm constructed on a span program that improves a result by Gavinsky and Ito. The algorithm uses $O(\sqrt{n}+\sqrt{\alpha^{**}})$ queries, where $\alpha^{**}(G)$ is a graph parameter defined by \[\alpha^{**}(G):=\min_{VC\text{-- vertex cover of}G}{\max_{\substack{I\subseteq VC\\I\text{-- independent set}}}{\sum_{v\in I}{\deg{v}}}};\] \item an algorithm for a subclass of circulant graphs that uses $O(\sqrt{n})$ queries. \end{itemize} We also present an example of a possibly difficult graph $G$ for which all the known graphs fail to solve graph collision in $O(\sqrt{n} \log^c n)$ queries.

id: 1305.1029
title: Cavity cooling of an ensemble spin system
authors: Christopher J. Wood, Troy W. Borneman, David G. Cory
comments: 14 pages + 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 050501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1029
abstract: We describe how sideband cooling techniques may be applied to large spin ensembles in magnetic resonance. Using the Tavis-Cummings model in the presence of a Rabi drive, we solve a Markovian master equation describing the joint spin-cavity dynamics to derive cooling rates as a function of ensemble size. Our calculations indicate that the coupled angular momentum subspaces of a spin ensemble containing roughly $10^{11}$ electron spins may be polarized in a time many orders of magnitude shorter than the typical thermal relaxation time. The described techniques should permit efficient removal of entropy for spin-based quantum information processors and fast polarization of spin samples. The proposed application of a standard technique in quantum optics to magnetic resonance also serves to reinforce the connection between the two fields, which has recently begun to be explored in further detail due to the development of hybrid designs for manufacturing noise-resilient quantum devices.

id: 1305.1051
title: Coherently enhanced measurements in classical mechanics
authors: Daniel Braun, Sandu Popescu
comments: 5 pages of revtex4, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1051
abstract: We show that the recently discovered quantum-enhanced measurement protocol of coherent averaging that is capable of achieving Heisenberg-limited sensitivity without using entanglement, has a classical analogue. The classical protocol uses N harmonic oscillators coupled to a central oscillator and one measures the signal from the latter. We propose an application to the measurement of very weak interactions, and, in particular, a novel route to measuring the gravitational constant with enhanced precision.

id: 1305.1083
title: Robustness of quantum communication based on a decoherence-free subspace using a counter-propagating weak coherent light pulse
authors: Hidetoshi Kumagai, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052325 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1083
abstract: We study distribution schemes for a polarization entangled photon pair based on a decoherence-free subspace over lossy quantum channels and propose an efficient scheme that is robust against not only collective phase noises but also general collective noises for two qubits. While the proposed scheme employs two photons to build the decoherence-free subspace, the success probability is proportional to the channel transmittance of a single photon with the aid of a counter-propagating weak coherent light pulse. The key ingredient in the scheme is found to be the reciprocity of the channel. The proposed scheme shares the rest of the properties with the previously proposed schemes, i.e., it can be realized by linear optical elements and it is robust against the fluctuations in the optical circuits used by the two parties.

id: 1305.1107
title: Towards single-cycle squeezing in chirped quasi-phase-matched optical parametric down-conversion
authors: D. B. Horoshko, M. I. Kolobov
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033806 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1107
abstract: We propose a method for generation of a single-cycle squeezed light by parametric down-conversion in a chirped quasi-phase-matched nonlinear crystal. We find an exact quantum solution for this process valid for an arbitrary parametric gain, and discover an ultrabroadband squeezing in the down-converted light with flat squeezing spectrum comprising the full optical octave. We describe a scheme for observation of this kind of squeezing using second-harmonic generation as an ultrafast correlator.

id: 1305.1110
title: Dissipative dynamics of atom-field entanglement in the ultrastrong-coupling regime
authors: Ferdi Altintas
comments: Improved discussion, references added. Accepted for publication in Physica Scripta as a contribution to CEWQO 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1110
abstract: The dynamics of atom-field entanglement for a system composed of two atoms resonantly coupled to a single mode leaky cavity field has been investigated beyond rotating wave approximation (RWA). By using monogamic relation for entanglement of formation (EOF) as well as the lower bound of EOF for bipartite mixed states in higher dimensions, contrary to the RWA case, the atom-field system in the steady states is found to be entangled in the strong-coupling regime and the entanglement can grow as a function of atom-field coupling strength.

id: 1305.1130
title: Universal gates for transforming multipartite entangled Dicke states
authors: Toshiki Kobayashi, Rikizo Ikuta, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Mark Tame, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 023005 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1130
abstract: We determine the minimal number of qubits that it is necessary to have access to in order to transform Dicke states into other Dicke states. In general, the number of qubits in Dicke states cannot be increased via transformation gates by accessing only a single qubit, in direct contrast to other multipartite entangled states such as GHZ, W and cluster states. We construct a universal optimal gate which adds spin-up qubits or spin-down qubits to any Dicke state by minimal access. We also show the existence of a universal gate which transforms any size of Dicke state as long as it has access to at least the required number of qubits. Our results have important consequences for the generation of Dicke states in physical systems such as ion traps, all-optical setups and cavity-QED settings where they can be used for a variety of quantum information processing tasks.

id: 1305.1149
title: Entropy and complexity analysis of hydrogenic Rydberg atoms
authors: S. L¨®pez-Rosa, I.V. Toranzo, P. S¨¢nchez-Moreno, J.S. Dehesa
comments: 17 pages
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 54 (2013) 052109
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1149
abstract: The internal disorder of hydrogenic Rydberg atoms as contained in their position and momentum probability densities is examined by means of the following information-theoretic spreading quantities: the radial and logarithmic expectation values, the Shannon entropy and the Fisher information. As well, the complexity measures of Cr\'amer-Rao, Fisher-Shannon and LMC types are investigated in both reciprocal spaces. The leading term of these quantities is rigorously calculated by use of the asymptotic properties of the concomitant entropic functionals of the Laguerre and Gegenbauer orthogonal polynomials which control the wavefunctions of the Rydberg states in both position and momentum spaces. The associated generalized Heisenberg-like, logarithmic and entropic uncertainty relations are also given. Finally, application to linear ($l=0$), circular ($l=n-1$) and quasicircular ($l=n-2$) states is explicitly done.

id: 1305.1158
title: Bessel beams of two-level atoms driven by a linearly polarized laser field
authors: Armen G. Hayrapetyan, Oliver Matula, Andrey Surzhykov, Stephan Fritzsche
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, appeared as a EPJD highlight on Thursday, 01 August 2013 this http URL&view=article&id=684%3Aepjd-highlight-novel-beams-made-of-twisted-atoms&catid=112%3Aepj-d&Itemid=466&lang=en
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2013) 67: 167
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1158
abstract: We study Bessel beams of two-level atoms that are driven by a linearly polarized laser field. Starting from the Schroedinger equation, we determine the states of two-level atoms in a plane-wave field respecting propagation directions both of the atom and the field. For such laser-driven two-level atoms, we construct Bessel beams beyond the typical paraxial approximation. We show that the probability density of these atomic beams obtains a non-trivial, Bessel-squared-type behavior and can be tuned under the special choice of the atom and laser parameters, such as the nuclear charge, atom velocity, laser frequency, and propagation geometry of the atom and laser beams. Moreover, we spatially and temporally characterize the beam of hydrogen and selected (neutral) alkali-metal atoms that carry non-zero orbital angular momentum (OAM). The proposed spatiotemporal Bessel states (i) are able to describe, in principle, twisted states of any two-level system which is driven by the radiation field and (ii) have potential applications in atomic, nuclear processes and quantum communication.

id: 1305.1197
title: Coherent Destruction of Tunneling and Dark Floquet State
authors: Xiaobing Luo, Liping Li, Li You, Biao Wu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 16, 013007(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1197
abstract: We study a system of three coherently coupled states, where one state is shifted periodically against the other two. We discover such a system possesses a dark Floquet state at zero quasienergy and always with negligible population at the intermediate state. This dark Floquet state manifests itself dynamically in terms of the suppression of inter-state tunneling, a phenomenon known as coherent destruction of tunneling. We suggest to call it dark coherent destruction of tunneling (DCDT). At high frequency limit for the periodic driving, this Floquet state reduces to the well-known dark state widely used for STIRAP. Our results can be generalized to systems with more states and can be verified with easily implemented experiments within current technologies.

id: 1305.1226
title: Ground state of three qubits coupled to a harmonic oscillator with ultrastrong coupling
authors: Li-Tuo Shen, Zhen-Biao Yang, Rong-Xin Chen
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, Physical Review A 88, 045803 (2013)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 045803 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1226
abstract: We study the Rabi model composed of three qubits coupled to a harmonic oscillator without involving the rotating-wave approximation. We show that the ground state of the three-qubit Rabi model can be analytically treated by using the transformation method, and the transformed ground state agrees well with the exactly numerical simulation under a wide range of qubit-oscillator coupling strengths for different detunings. We use the pairwise entanglement to characterize the ground-state entanglement between any two qubits and show that it has an approximately quadratic dependence on the qubit-oscillator coupling strength. Interestingly, we find that there is no qubit-qubit entanglement for the ground state if the qubit-oscillator coupling strength is large enough.

id: 1305.1262
title: Weakening the Born Rule - Towards a Stateless Formulation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Olivier Brunet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1262
abstract: The notion of state vector is, in quantum mechanics, as central as it is problematic, as illustrates the wealth of publications about the sub- jects, including in particular the many attempts to obtain an acceptable interpretation of quantum mechanics. In this article, we propose a different approach, and initiate the study of a formulation of quantum mechanics, where the notion of state is entirely replaced by assertions about measurement outcomes. We define a notion of "verification" which represents the knowledge that one may have about the possible outcomes of the measurements performed on a quantum system, and express a set of logical rules which allow to reason about quantum systems using verification assertions only, and thus making no reference to the problematic notion of state.

id: 1305.1280
title: The Pilot-Wave Perspective on Spin
authors: Travis Norsen
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: American Journal of Physics 82 (April 2014) 337-348
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1280
abstract: The alternative pilot-wave theory of quantum phenomena -- associated especially with Louis de Broglie, David Bohm, and John Bell -- reproduces the statistical predictions of ordinary quantum mechanics, but without recourse to special \emph{ad hoc} axioms pertaining to measurement. That (and how) it does so is relatively straightforward to understand in the case of position measurements and, more generally, measurements whose outcome is ultimately registered by the position of a pointer. Despite a widespread belief to the contrary among physicists, the theory can also account successfully for phenomena involving spin. The main goal of the paper is to explain how the pilot-wave theory's account of spin works. Along the way, we provide illuminating comparisons between the orthodox and pilot-wave accounts of spin and address some puzzles about how the pilot-wave theory relates to the important theorems of Kochen and Specker and Bell.

id: 1305.1285
title: Casimir Force for Arbitrary Objects Using the Argument Principle and Boundary Element Methods
authors: Phillip R Atkins, Weng Cho Chew, Qi I. Dai, Wei E. I. Sha
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1285
abstract: Recent progress in the simulation of Casimir forces between various objects has allowed traditional computational electromagnetic solvers to be used to find Casimir forces in arbitrary three-dimensional objects. The underlying theory to these approaches requires knowledge and manipulation of quantum field theory and statistical physics. We present a calculation of the Casimir force using the method of moments via the argument principle. This simplified derivation allows greater freedom in the moment matrix where the argument principle can be used to calculate Casimir forces for arbitrary geometries and materials with the use of various computational electromagnetic techniques.

id: 1305.1316
title: Entanglement sampling and applications
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis, Omar Fawzi, Stephanie Wehner
comments: v2: fixed minor issue with the definition of entropy and improved presentation
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 61, pp. 1093 - 1112, 2015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1316
abstract: A natural measure for the amount of quantum information that a physical system E holds about another system A = A_1,...,A_n is given by the min-entropy Hmin(A|E). Specifically, the min-entropy measures the amount of entanglement between E and A, and is the relevant measure when analyzing a wide variety of problems ranging from randomness extraction in quantum cryptography, decoupling used in channel coding, to physical processes such as thermalization or the thermodynamic work cost (or gain) of erasing a quantum system. As such, it is a central question to determine the behaviour of the min-entropy after some process M is applied to the system A. Here we introduce a new generic tool relating the resulting min-entropy to the original one, and apply it to several settings of interest, including sampling of subsystems and measuring in a randomly chosen basis. The sampling results lead to new upper bounds on quantum random access codes, and imply the existence of "local decouplers". The results on random measurements yield new high-order entropic uncertainty relations with which we prove the optimality of cryptographic schemes in the bounded quantum storage model.

id: 1305.1326
title: Parrondo's paradox and superactivation of classical and quantum capacity of communication channels with memory
authors: Sergii Strelchuk
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1326
abstract: There exist memoryless zero-capacity quantum channels that when used jointly result in the channel with positive capacity. This phenomenon is called superactivation. Making use of Parrondo's paradox, we exhibit examples of superactivation-like effect for the capacity of classical communication channels as well as quantum and private capacity of quantum channels with memory. There are several ingredients necessary for superactivation of quantum capacity to occur in memoryless case. The first one is the requirement for the quantum channels which are amenable for superactivation to come from two distinct families - binding entanglement channels and erasure channels. The second one is the ability to utilize inputs which are entangled across the uses of the channels. Our construction uses a single family of erasure channels with classical memory to achieve the same superactivation-like effect for quantum capacity without any of the ingredients above.

id: 1305.1327
title: Classical and Quantum Algorithms for Testing Equivalence of Group Extensions
authors: Kevin C. Zatloukal
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1327
abstract: While efficient algorithms are known for solving many important problems related to groups, no efficient algorithm is known for determining whether two arbitrary groups are isomorphic. The particular case of 2-nilpotent groups, a special type of central extension, is widely believed to contain the essential hard cases. However, looking specifically at central extensions, the natural formulation of being "the same" is not isomorphism but rather "equivalence," which requires an isomorphism to preserves the structure of the extension. In this paper, we show that equivalence of central extensions can be computed efficiently on a classical computer when the groups are small enough to be given by their multiplication tables. However, in the model of black box groups, which allows the groups to be much larger, we show that equivalence can be computed efficiently on a quantum computer but not a classical one (under common complexity assumptions). Our quantum algorithm demonstrates a new application of the hidden subgroup problem for general abelian groups.

id: 1305.1336
title: Non-perturbative interpretation of the Bloch vector's path beyond rotating wave approximation
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Stefano Siccardi, Giuliano Strini
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88 (2013) 033814
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1336
abstract: The Bloch vector's path of a two-level system exposed to a monochromatic field exhibits, in the regime of strong coupling, complex corkscrew trajectories. By considering the infinitesimal evolution of the two-level system when the field is treated as a classical object, we show that the Bloch vector's rotation speed oscillates between zero and twice the rotation speed predicted by the rotating wave approximation. Cusps appear when the rotation speed vanishes. We prove analytically that in correspondence to cusps the curvature of the Bloch vector's path diverges. On the other hand, numerical data show that the curvature is very large even for a quantum field in the deep quantum regime with mean number of photons $\bar{n}\lesssim 1$. We finally compute numerically the typical error size in a quantum gate when the terms beyond rotating wave approximation are neglected.

id: 1305.1342
title: Compatible quantum correlations: on extension problems for Werner and isotropic states
authors: Peter D. Johnson, Lorenza Viola
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures, 1 Table. Added results address isotropic states. Proofs moved to appendices. Minor clarifications added and Eq. (B1) fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032323 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1342
abstract: We investigate some basic scenarios in which a given set of bipartite quantum states may consistently arise as the set of reduced states of a global N-partite quantum state. Intuitively, we say that the multipartite state "joins" the underlying correlations. Determining whether, for a given set of states and a given joining structure, a compatible N-partite quantum state exists is known as the quantum marginal problem. We restrict to bipartite reduced states that belong to the paradigmatic classes of Werner and isotropic states in d dimensions, and focus on two specific versions of the quantum marginal problem which we find to be tractable. The first is Alice-Bob, Alice-Charlie joining, with both pairs being in a Werner or isotropic state. The second is m-n sharability of a Werner state across N subsystems, which may be seen as a variant of the N-representability problem to the case where subsystems are partitioned into two groupings of m and n parties, respectively. By exploiting the symmetry properties that each class of states enjoys, we determine necessary and sufficient conditions for three-party joinability and 1-n sharability for arbitrary d. Our results explicitly show that although entanglement is required for sharing limitations to emerge, correlations beyond entanglement generally suffice to restrict joinability, and not all unentangled states necessarily obey the same limitations. The relationship between joinability and quantum cloning as well as implications for the joinability of arbitrary bipartite states are discussed.

id: 1305.1402
title: Quantum Suppression of Ratchet Rectification in a Brownian System Driven by a Biharmonic Force
authors: Akihito Kato, Yoshitaka Tanimura
comments: 33 pages, 8 figures, to appear in J. Phys. Chem. B
journal: J. Phys. Chem. B, 117, 13132 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1402
abstract: We rigorously investigate the quantum dissipative dynamics of a ratchet system described by a periodic potential model based on the Caldeira-Leggett Hamiltonian with a biharmonic force. In this model, we use the reduced hierarchy equations of motion in the Wigner space representation. These equations represent a generalization of the Gaussian-Markovian quantum Fokker-Planck equation introduced by Tanimura and Wolynes (1991), which was formulated to study non-Markovian and non-perturbative thermal effects at finite temperature. This formalism allows us to treat both the classical limit and the tunneling regimes, and it is helpful for identifying purely quantum mechanical effects through the time evolution of the Wigner distribution. We carried out extensive calculations of the classical and quantum currents for various temperatures, coupling strengths, and barrier heights. Our results reveal that at low temperature, while the quantum current is larger than the classical current in the case of a high barrier, the opposite is true in the case of a low barrier. We find that this behavior results from the fact that the tunneling enhances the current in the case of a high barrier, while it suppresses the current in the case of a low barrier. This is because the effect of the ratchet potential is weak in the case of a low barrier, due to the large dispersion of the distribution introduced by tunneling. This causes the spatio-temporal asymmetry, which is necessary for ratchet current, to be weak, and as a result, the net current is suppressed.

id: 1305.1472
title: Quantum fidelity and relative entropy between unitary orbits
authors: Lin Zhang, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 11 pages, LaTeX, publised version in JPA
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 055301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1472
abstract: Fidelity and relative entropy are two significant quantities in quantum information theory. We study the quantum fidelity and relative entropy under unitary orbits. The maximal and minimal quantum fidelity and relative entropy between two unitary orbits are explicitly derived. The potential applications in quantum computation and information processing are discussed.

id: 1305.1497
title: Experimental Demonstration of Robust Bidirectional Quantum Optical Communications
authors: Jin-Shi Xu, Man-Hong Yung, Xiao-Ye Xu, Jian-Shun Tang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1497
abstract: We experimentally realized a new method for transmitting quantum information reliably through paired optical polarization-maintaining (PM) fibers. The physical setup extends the use of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer, where noises are canceled through interference. This method can be viewed as an improved version of the current decohernce-free subspace (DFS) approach in fiber optics. Furthermore, the setup can be applied bidirectionally, which means that robust quantum communication can be achieved from both ends. To rigorously quantify the amount of quantum information transferred, optical fibers are analyzed with the tools developed in quantum communication theory. These results not only suggests a practical means for protecting classical and quantum information through optical fibers, but also provides a new physical platform for enriching the structure of the quantum communication theory.

id: 1305.1506
title: Entanglement classes of permutation-symmetric qudit states: symmetric operations suffice
authors: Piotr Migda?, Javier Rodriguez-Laguna, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 8 pages; minor changes + added reference
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012335 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1506
abstract: We analyse entanglement classes for permutation-symmetric states for n qudits (i.e. d-level systems), with respect to local unitary operations (LU-equivalence) and stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC equivalence). In both cases, we show that the search can be restricted to operations where the same local operation acts on all qudits, and we provide an explicit construction for it. Stabilizers of states in the form of one-particle operations preserving permutation symmetry are shown to provide a coarse-grained classification of entanglement classes. We prove that the Jordan form of such one-particle operator is a SLOCC invariant. We find, as representatives of those classes, a discrete set of entangled states that generalize the GHZ and W state for the many-particle qudit case. In the later case, we introduce "excitation states" as a natural generalization of the W state for d>2.

id: 1305.1516
title: Coherent internal state transfer by three-photon STIRAP-like scheme for many-atom samples
authors: Marius Romuald Kamsap, Thierry Blanchard Ekogo, Jofre Pedregosa-Gutierrez, Gaetan Hagel, Marie Houssin, Olivier Morizot, Martina Knoop, Caroline Champenois
comments: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics (2013) a paraitre
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1516
abstract: A STIRAP-like scheme is proposed to exploit a three-photon resonance taking place in alkaline-earth-metal ions. This scheme is designed for state transfer between the two fine structure components of the metastable D-state which are two excited states that can serve as optical or THz qu-bit. The advantage of a coherent three-photon process compared to two-photon STIRAP lies in the possibility of exact cancellation of the first order Doppler shift which opens the way for an application to a sample composed of many ions. The transfer efficiency and its dependence with experimental parameters are analyzed by numerical simulations. This efficiency is shown to reach a fidelity as high as $(1-8.10^{-5})$ with realistic parameters. The scheme is also extended to the synthesis of a linear combination of three stable or metastable states.

id: 1305.1519
title: Phase-stable source of polarization-entangled photons in a linear double-pass configuration
authors: Fabian Steinlechner, Sven Ramelow, Marc Jofre, Marta Gilaberte, Thomas Jennewein, Juan. P. Torres, Morgan W. Mitchell, Valerio Pruneri
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 21, 11943-11951 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1519
abstract: We demonstrate a compact, robust, and highly efficient source of polarization-entangled photons, based on linear bi-directional down-conversion in a novel 'folded sandwich' configuration. Bi-directionally pumping a single periodically poled KTiOPO$_4$ (ppKTP) crystal with a 405-nm laser diode, we generate entangled photon pairs at the non-degenerate wavelengths 784 nm (signal) and 839 nm (idler), and achieve an unprecedented detection rate of 11.8 kcps for 10.4 $\mu$W of pump power (1.1 million pairs / mW), in a 2.9-nm bandwidth, while maintaining a very high two-photon entanglement quality, with a Bell-state fidelity of $99.3\pm0.3$%.

id: 1305.1543
title: Polynomial time quantum algorithms for certain bivariate hidden polynomial problems
authors: Thomas Decker, Peter Hoyer, Gabor Ivanyos, Miklos Santha
comments: Theorem numbering changed; new subsection with a high-level description of the main algorithm
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 14 (2014), 790-806
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1543
abstract: We present a new method for solving the hidden polynomial graph problem (HPGP) which is a special case of the hidden polynomial problem (HPP). The new approach yields an efficient quantum algorithm for the bivariate HPGP even when the input consists of several level set superpositions, a more difficult version of the problem than the one where the input is given by an oracle. For constant degree, the algorithm is polylogarithmic in the size of the base field. We also apply the results to give an efficient quantum algorithm for the oracle version of the HPP for an interesting family of bivariate hidden functions. This family includes diagonal quadratic forms and elliptic curves.

id: 1305.1602
title: Ultracold Quantum Gases and Lattice Systems: Quantum Simulation of Lattice Gauge Theories
authors: U.-J. Wiese
comments: 27 pages, 6 figures, invited contribution to the "Annalen der Physik" topical issue "Quantum Simulation", guest editors: R. Blatt, I. Bloch, J. I. Cirac, and P. Zoller
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1602
abstract: Abelian and non-Abelian gauge theories are of central importance in many areas of physics. In condensed matter physics, Abelian U(1) lattice gauge theories arise in the description of certain quantum spin liquids. In quantum information theory, Kitaev's toric code is a Z(2) lattice gauge theory. In particle physics, Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD), the non-Abelian SU(3) gauge theory of the strong interactions between quarks and gluons, is non-perturbatively regularized on a lattice. Quantum link models extend the concept of lattice gauge theories beyond the Wilson formulation, and are well suited for both digital and analog quantum simulation using ultracold atomic gases in optical lattices. Since quantum simulators do not suffer from the notorious sign problem, they open the door to studies of the real-time evolution of strongly coupled quantum systems, which are impossible with classical simulation methods. A plethora of interesting lattice gauge theories suggests itself for quantum simulation, which should allow us to address very challenging problems, ranging from confinement and deconfinement, or chiral symmetry breaking and its restoration at finite baryon density, to color superconductivity and the real-time evolution of heavy-ion collisions, first in simpler model gauge theories and ultimately in QCD.

id: 1305.1615
title: Each instant of time a new Universe
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Sandu Popescu, Jeff Tollaksen
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1615
abstract: We present an alternative view of quantum evolution in which each moment of time is viewed as a new "universe" and time evolution is given by correlations between them.

id: 1305.1693
title: Exotic quantum holonomy and non-Hermitian degeneracies in two-body Lieb-Liniger model
authors: Atushi Tanaka, Nobuhiro Yonezawa, Taksu Cheon
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 315302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1693
abstract: An interplay of an exotic quantum holonomy and exceptional points is examined in one-dimensional Bose systems. The eigenenergy anholonomy, in which Hermitian adiabatic cycle induces nontrivial change in eigenenergies, can be interpreted as a manifestation of eigenenergy's Riemann surface structure, where the branch points are identified as the exceptional points which are degeneracy points in the complexified parameter space. It is also shown that the exceptional points are the divergent points of the non-Abelian gauge connection for the gauge theoretical formulation of the eigenspace anholonomy. This helps us to evaluate anti-path-ordered exponentials of the gauge connection to obtain gauge covariant quantities.

id: 1305.1701
title: Large quantum superpositions of a levitated nanodiamond through spin-optomechanical coupling
authors: Zhang-qi Yin, Tongcang Li, Xiang Zhang, L. M. Duan
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033614 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1701
abstract: We propose a method to generate and detect large quantum superposition states and arbitrary Fock states for the oscillational mode of an optically levitated nanocrystal diamond. The nonlinear interaction required for the generation of non-Gaussian quantum states is enabled through the spin-mechanical coupling with a built-in nitrogen-vacancy center inside the nanodiamond. The proposed method allows the generation of large superpositions of nanoparticles with millions of atoms and the observation of the associated spatial quantum interference under reasonable experimental conditions.

id: 1305.1750
title: Quantum transition-edge detectors
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: v2: published in PRA Rapid
journal: Physical Review A (Rapid Communication) 88, 021801(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1750
abstract: Small perturbations to systems near critical points of quantum phase transitions can induce drastic changes in the system properties. Here I show that this sensitivity can be exploited for weak-signal detection applications. This is done by relating a widely studied signature of quantum chaos and quantum phase transitions known as the Loschmidt echo to the minimum error probability for a quantum detector and noting that the echo, and therefore the error, can be significantly reduced near a critical point. Three examples, namely, the quantum Ising model, the optical parametric oscillator model, and the Dicke model, are presented to illustrate the concept. For the latter two examples, the detectable perturbation can exhibit a Heisenberg scaling with respect to the number of detectors, even though the detectors are not entangled and no special quantum state preparation is specified.

id: 1305.1766
title: Google In A Photonic Lattice
authors: Kallol Roy, Ji Liu, Le Luo, R.Srikanth, Tapan Mishra, Bhanu Das, T. Srinivas
comments: 3 pages; 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1766
abstract: The quantum version of Google PageRank has recently been investigated by various groups and shown to be quadratically faster in time than the classical PageRank algorithm. In this paper we propose the implementation of Quantum PageRank by a stochastic quantum walk of correlated photons in a photonic waveguide lattice, where we allow the density matrix to evolve according to the Lindblad-Kossakowski master equation. This yields a stationary state, the diagonal of whose density matrix gives the page ranking.

id: 1305.1767
title: Negativity and steering: a stronger Peres conjecture
authors: Matthew F. Pusey
comments: 5 pages, 3 tables, 2 figures, code at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032313 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1767
abstract: The violation of a Bell inequality certifies the presence of entanglement even if neither party trusts their measurement devices. Recently Moroder et. al. showed how to make this statement quantitative, using semidefinite programming to calculate how much entanglement is certified by a given violation. Here I adapt their techniques to the case where Bob's measurement devices are in fact trusted, the setting for "EPR-steering" inequalities. Interestingly, all of the steering inequalities studied turn out to require negativity for their violation. This supports a significant strengthening of Peres' conjecture that negativity is required to violate a bipartite Bell inequality.

id: 1305.1808
title: Novel Topological Phases and Self-Correcting Memories in Interacting Anyon Systems
authors: James R. Wootton
comments: 5 pages, only references on fifth
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062312 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1808
abstract: Recent studies have shown that topological models with interacting anyonic quasiparticles can be used as self-correcting quantum memories. Here we study the behaviour of these models at thermal equilibrium. It is found that the interactions allow topological order to exist at finite temperature, not only in an extension of the ground state phase but also in a novel form of topologically ordered phase. Both phases are found to support self-correction in all models considered, and the transition between them corresponds to a change in the scaling of memory lifetime with system size.

id: 1305.1816
title: Spontaneous synchronization and quantum correlation dynamics of open spin systems
authors: G. L. Giorgi, F. Plastina, G. Francica, R. Zambrini
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042115 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1816
abstract: We discuss the emergence of spontaneous synchronization for an open spin-pair system interacting only via a common environment. Under suitable conditions, and even in the presence of detuning between the natural precession frequencies of the two spins, they are shown to reach a long-lasting transient behavior where they oscillate in phase. We explore the connection between the emergence of such a behavior and the establishment of robust quantum correlations between the two spins, analyzing differences between dissipative and dephasing effects.

id: 1305.1828
title: Dynamical tunneling of a Bose-Einstein condensate in periodically driven systems
authors: R. K. Shrestha, J. Ni, W. K. Lam, G. S. Summy, S. Wimberger
comments: Improved version
journal: Phys. Rev. E vol. 88, 034901 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1828
abstract: We report measurements of dynamical tunneling rates of a Bose-Einstein condensate across a barrier in classical phase space. The atoms are initially prepared in quantum states that extend over a classically regular island region. We focus on the specific system of quantum accelerator modes of the kicked rotor in the presence of gravity. Our experimental data is supported by numerical simulations taking into account imperfections mainly from spontaneous emission. Furthermore, we predict experimentally accessible parameter ranges over which direct tunneling could be readily observed if spontaneous emission was further suppressed. Altogether, we provide a proof-of-principle for the experimental accessibility of dynamical tunneling rates in periodically driven systems.

id: 1305.1853
title: Open Quantum to classical phases transition in the stochastic hydrodynamic analogy: the explanation of the Lindemann relation and the analogies between the maximum of density at He lambda point and that one at water-ice phase transition
authors: Piero Chiarelli
comments: In press on Phys. Rev. & Res. Int
journal: Physical Review & Research International 3(4): 348-366, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1853
abstract: In the present paper the gas, liquid and solid phases made of structureless particles, are visited to the light of the quantum stochastic hydrodynamic analogy (SQHA). The SQHA shows that the open quantum mechanical behavior is maintained on a distance shorter than the theory-defined quantum correlation length (lc). When, the physical length of the problem is larger than lc, the model shows that the quantum (potential) interactions may have a finite range of interaction maintaining the non-local behavior on a finite distance quantum non-locality length lq. The present work shows that when the mean molecular distance is larger than the quantum non-locality length we have a classical phases (gas and van der Waals liquids) while when the mean molecular distance becomes smaller than lq or than lc we have phases such as the solid crystal or the superfluid one, respectively, that show quantum characteristics. The model agrees with Lindemann empirical law (and explains it), for the mean square deviation of atom from the equilibrium position at melting point of crystal, and shows a connection between the maximum density at the He lambda point and that one near the water-ice solidification point.

id: 1305.1863
title: High-bandwidth quantum memory protocol for storing single photons in rare-earth doped crystals
authors: Valentina Caprara Vivoli, Nicolas Sangouard, Mikael Afzelius, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 095012 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1863
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of a high-bandwidth quantum memory protocol for storing single photons in a rare-earth-ion doped crystal. The basic idea is to benefit from a coherent free-induced decay type re-emission which occurs naturally when a photon with a broadband spectrum is absorbed by a narrow atomic transition in an optically dense ensemble. This allows for a high-bandwidth memory for realistic material parameters. Long storage time and on-demand readout are obtained by means of spins states in a lambda-type configuration, through the transfer of the optical coherence to a spin coherence (so-called spin-wave storage). We give explicit formulas and show numerical results which make it possible to gain insight into the dependence of the memory efficiency on the optical depth and on the width and the shape of stored photons. We present a feasibility study in rare-earth doped crystals and show that high efficiencies and high bandwidth can be obtained with realistic parameters. High-bandwidth memories using spin-wave storage offers the possibility of very high time-bandwidth products, which is important for experiment where high repetition rates are needed.

id: 1305.1894
title: Post-Matrix Product State Methods: To tangent space and beyond
authors: Jutho Haegeman, Tobias J. Osborne, Frank Verstraete
comments: 40 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 075133 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1894
abstract: We develop in full detail the formalism of tangent states to the manifold of matrix product states, and show how they naturally appear in studying time-evolution, excitations and spectral functions. We focus on the case of systems with translation invariance in the thermodynamic limit, where momentum is a well defined quantum number. We present some new illustrative results and discuss analogous constructions for other variational classes. We also discuss generalizations and extensions beyond the tangent space, and give a general outlook towards post matrix product methods.

id: 1305.1930
title: A quantitative witness for Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger entanglement
authors: Christopher Eltschka, Jens Siewert
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 2, 942 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1930
abstract: Along with the vast progress in experimental quantum technologies there is an increasing demand for the quantification of entanglement between three or more quantum systems. Theory still does not provide adequate tools for this purpose. The objective is, besides the quest for exact results, to develop operational methods that allow for efficient entanglement quantification. Here we put forward an analytical approach that serves both these goals. We provide a simple procedure to quantify Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger--type multipartite entanglement in arbitrary three-qubit states. For two qubits this method is equivalent to Wootters' seminal result [Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 2245 (1998)]. It establishes a close link between entanglement quantification and entanglement detection by witnesses, and can be generalised both to higher dimensions and to more than three parties.

id: 1305.1953
title: Majorana fermions and non-locality
authors: Earl T. Campbell, Matty J. Hoban, Jens Eisert
comments: Published version in single column format. Changes since V1 include corrections made to Table 1
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 14, 0981 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1953
abstract: Localized Majorana fermions emerge in many topologically ordered systems and exhibit exchange statistics of Ising anyons. This enables noise-resistant implementation of a limited set of operations by braiding and fusing Majorana fermions. Unfortunately, these operations are incapable of implementing universal quantum computation. We show that, regardless of these limitations, Majorana fermions could be used to demonstrate non-locality (correlations incompatible with a local hidden variable theory) in experiments using only topologically protected operations. We also demonstrate that our proposal is optimal in terms of resources, with 10 Majorana fermions shown to be both necessary and sufficient for demonstrating bipartite non-locality. Furthermore, we identify severe restrictions on the possibility of tripartite non-locality. We comment on the potential of such entangled systems to be used in quantum information protocols.

id: 1305.1969
title: Phase Conjugation in Quantum Optomechanics
authors: L. F. Buchmann, E. M. Wright, P. Meystre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1969
abstract: We analyze the phase conjugate coupling of a pair of optomechanical oscillator modes driven by the time-dependent beat-note due to a two-color optical field. The dynamics of the direct and phase conjugate modes exhibit familiar time-reversed qualities, leading to opposite sign temperatures for the modes in the classical regime of operation, but these features are limited by quantum effects due to the non-commutative nature of quantum mechanical operators. The effects are measurable by read-out of the oscillator via a qubit. As a potential application of this system in sensing, we discuss a protocol applying phase-conjugate swaps to cancel external forces acting on the system.

id: 1305.1978
title: Minimal noise subsystems
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Mark Byrd, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1978
abstract: The existence of a decoherence-free subspace/subsystem (DFS) requires that the noise possesses a symmetry. In this work we consider noise models in which perturbations break this symmetry, so that the DFS for the unperturbed model experiences noise. We ask whether in this case there exist subspaces/subsystems that have less noise than the original DFS. We develop a numerical method to search for such minimal noise subsystems and apply it to a number of examples. For the examples we examine, we find that if the perturbation is local noise then there is no better subspace/subsystem than the original DFS. We also show that if the noise model remains collective, but is perturbed in a way that breaks the symmetry, then the minimal noise subsystem is distinct from the original DFS, and improves upon it.

id: 1305.2005
title: Probing the structure of entanglement with entanglement moments
authors: Justin H. Wilson, Joe Mitchell, Victor Galitski
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2005
abstract: We introduce and define a set of functions on pure bipartite states called entanglement moments. Usual entanglement measures tell you if two systems are entangled, while entanglement moments tell you both if and how two systems are entangled. They are defined with respect to a measurement basis in one system (e.g., a measuring device), and output numbers describing how a system (e.g., a qubit) is entangled with that measurement basis. The moments utilize different distance measures on the Hilbert space of the measured system, and can be generalized to any N-dimensional Hilbert space. As an application, they can distinguish between projective and non-projective measurements. As a particular example, we take the Rabi model's eigenstates and calculate the entanglement moments as well as the full distribution of entanglement.

id: 1305.2012
title: Entanglement Classification of Restricted Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger Symmetric States in Four-Qubit System
authors: DaeKil Park
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure v2: 16 pages, 3 figures, almost re-written including title, author, abstract, etc v3: final version, will appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2012
abstract: Similar to the three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) symmetry we explore the four-qubit GHZ symmetry group and its subgroup called restricted GHZ symmetry group. While the set of symmetric states under the whole group transformation is represented by three real parameters, the set of symmetric states under the subgroup transformation is represented by two real parameters. After comparing the symmetric states for whole and subgroup, the entanglement is examined for the latter set. It is shown that the set has only two SLOCC classes, $L_{abc_2}$ and $G_{abcd}$. Extension to the multi-qubit system is briefly discussed.

id: 1305.2021
title: Efficient error models for fault-tolerant architectures and the Pauli twirling approximation
authors: Michael R. Geller, Zhongyuan Zhou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2021
abstract: The design and optimization of realistic architectures for fault-tolerant quantum computation requires error models that are both reliable and amenable to large-scale classical simulation. Perhaps the simplest and most practical general-purpose method for constructing such an error model is to twirl a given completely positive channel over the Pauli basis, a procedure we refer to as the Pauli twirling approximation (PTA). In this work we test the accuracy of the PTA for a small stabilizer measurement circuit relevant to fault-tolerant quantum computation, in the presence of both intrinsic gate errors and decoherence, and find excellent agreement over a wide range of physical error rates. The combined simplicity and accuracy of the PTA, along with its direct connection to the chi matrix of process tomography, suggests that it be used as a standard reference point for more refined error model constructions.

id: 1305.2022
title: Comparison of different approaches of finding the positive definite metric in pseudo-Hermitian theories
authors: Ananya Ghatak, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: 18 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 59 (2013) 533
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2022
abstract: To develop a unitary quantum theory with probabilistic description for pseudo- Hermitian systems one needs to consider the theories in a different Hilbert space endowed with a positive definite metric operator. There are different approaches to find such metric operators. We compare the different approaches of calculating pos- itive definite metric operators in pseudo-Hermitian theories with the help of several explicit examples in non-relativistic as well as in relativistic situations. Exceptional points and spontaneous symmetry breaking are also discussed in these models.

id: 1305.2023
title: Quantum marginal inequalities and the conjectured entropic inequalities
authors: Lin Zhang, Hongjin He, Yuan-hong Tao
comments: Published version, 10 pages, 8 fig. The title is changed
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 53 (2014) 2959
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2023
abstract: A conjecture -- \emph{the modified super-additivity inequality} of relative entropy -- was proposed in \cite{Zhang2012}: There exist three unitary operators $U_A\in \unitary{\cH_A},U_B\in \unitary{\cH_B}$, and $U_{AB}\in \unitary{\cH_A\ot \cH_B}$ such that $$ \rS(U_{AB}\rho_{AB}U^\dagger_{AB}||\sigma_{AB}) \geqslant \rS(U_A\rho_AU^\dagger_A||\sigma_A) + \rS(U_B\rho_BU^\dagger_B||\sigma_B), $$ where the reference state $\sigma$ is required to be full-ranked. A numerical study on the conjectured inequality is conducted in this note. The results obtained indicate that the modified super-additivity inequality of relative entropy seems to hold for all qubit pairs.

id: 1305.2087
title: Efficient classical simulation of the Gisin-Massar quantum cloning machine
authors: Hamed Saberi, Yousof Mardoukhi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2087
abstract: We provide here the technical details of the recently proposed tensor-network protocol for classical simulation of the Gisin-Massar quantum cloner by the authors [Phys. Rev. A, 85, 052323 (2012)]. The protocol essentially instructs how to efficiently simulate an optimal quantum cloning machine of Gisin-Massar on a classical computer. A viable computational platform for generation on demand of arbitrary number of optimal clones with controllable numerical resources is realized by rephrasing the Gisin-Massar output state in terms of the hierarchy of the so-called matrix-product states (MPS) and invoking parity features peculiar to such an output.

id: 1305.2100
title: Beam splitter and entanglement created with the squeezed coherent states of the Morse potential
authors: Anaelle Hertz, V¨¦ronique Hussin, Hichem Eleuch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2100
abstract: The Morse potential is relatively closed to the harmonic oscillator quantum system. Thus, following the idea used for the latter, we study the possibility of creating entanglement using squeezed coherent states of the Morse potential as an input field of a beam splitter. We measure the entanglement with the linear entropy for two types of such states and we study the dependence with the coherence and squeezing parameters. The new results are linked with observations made on probability densities and uncertainty relations of those states. The dynamical evolution of the linear entropy is also explored.

id: 1305.2165
title: Temporal mode selectivity by frequency conversion in second-order nonlinear optical waveguides
authors: Dileep V. Reddy, Michael G. Raymer, Colin J. McKinstrie, Lasse Mejling, Karsten Rottwitt
comments: 24 pages, 20 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 11, pp. 13840-13863 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2165
abstract: We explore theoretically the feasibility of using frequency conversion by sum- or difference-frequency generation, enabled by three- wave-mixing, for selectively multiplexing orthogonal input waveforms that overlap in time and frequency. Such a process would enable a drop device for use in a transparent optical network using temporally orthogonal waveforms to encode different channels. We model the process using coupled-mode equations appropriate for wave mixing in a uniform second- order nonlinear optical medium pumped by a strong laser pulse. We find Green functions describing the process, and employ Schmidt (singular- value) decompositions thereof to quantify its viability in functioning as a coherent waveform discriminator. We define a selectivity figure of merit in terms of the Schmidt coefficients, and use it to compare and contrast various parameter regimes via extensive numerical computations. We identify the most favorable regime (at least in the case of no pump chirp) and derive the complete analytical solution for the same. We bound the maximum achievable selectivity in this parameter space. We show that including a frequency chirp in the pump does not improve selectivity in this optimal regime. We also find an operating regime in which high-efficiency frequency conversion without temporal-shape selectivity can be achieved while preserving the shapes of a wide class of input pulses. The results are applicable to both classical and quantum frequency conversion.

id: 1305.2176
title: Elementary excitations in gapped quantum spin systems
authors: Jutho Haegeman, Spyridon Michalakis, Bruno Nachtergaele, Tobias J. Osborne, Norbert Schuch, Frank Verstraete
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures (small update, journal submission version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 080401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2176
abstract: For quantum lattice systems with local interactions, the Lieb-Robinson bound acts as an alternative for the strict causality of relativistic systems and allows to prove many interesting results, in particular when the energy spectrum exhibits an energy gap. In this Letter, we show that for translation invariant systems, simultaneous eigenstates of energy and momentum with an eigenvalue that is separated from the rest of the spectrum in that momentum sector, can be arbitrarily well approximated by building a momentum superposition of a local operator acting on the ground state. The error decreases in the size of the support of the local operator, with a rate that is set by the gap below and above the targeted eigenvalue. We show this explicitly for the AKLT model and discuss generalizations and applications of our result.

id: 1305.2186
title: Quantum interference as a resource for quantum speedup
authors: Dan Stahlke
comments: Various fixes and additions suggested by reviewers
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 022302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2186
abstract: Quantum states can in a sense be thought of as generalizations of classical probability distributions, but are more powerful than probability distributions when used for computation or communication. Quantum speedup therefore requires some feature of quantum states that classical probability distributions lack. One such feature is interference. We quantify interference and show that there can be no quantum speedup due to a small number of operations incapable of generating large amounts of interference (although large numbers of such operations can in fact lead to quantum speedup). Low-interference operations include sparse unitaries, Grover reflections, short time/low energy Hamiltonian evolutions, and the Haar wavelet transform. Circuits built from such operations can be classically simulated via a Monte Carlo technique making use of a convex combination of two Markov chains. Applications to query complexity, communication complexity, and the Wigner representation are discussed.

id: 1305.2192
title: Does gravity induce wavefunction collapse? An examination of Penrose's conjecture
authors: Shan Gao
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics 44, 148-151 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2192
abstract: According to Penrose, the fundamental conflict between the superposition principle of quantum mechanics and the principle of general covariance of general relativity entails the existence of wavefunction collapse, e.g. a quantum superposition of two different space-time geometries will collapse to one of them due to the ill-definedness of the time-translation operator for the superposition. In this paper, we argue that Penrose's conjecture on gravity's role in wavefunction collapse is debatable. First of all, it is still a controversial issue what the exact nature of the conflict is and how to resolve it. Secondly, Penrose's argument by analogy is too weak to establish a necessary connection between wavefunction collapse and the conflict as understood by him. Thirdly, the conflict does not necessarily lead to wavefunction collapse. For the conflict or the problem of ill-definedness for a superposition of different space-time geometries also needs to be solved before the collapse of the superposition finishes, and once the conflict has been resolved, the wavefunction collapse will lose its physical basis relating to the conflict. In addition, we argue that Penrose's suggestions for the collapse time formula and the preferred basis are also problematic.

id: 1305.2239
title: Squeezed light in an optical parametric oscillator network with coherent feedback quantum control
authors: Orion Crisafulli, Nikolas Tezak, Daniel B. S. Soh, Michael A. Armen, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2239
abstract: We present squeezing and anti-squeezing spectra of the output from a degenerate optical parametric oscillator (OPO) network arranged in different coherent quantum feedback configurations. One OPO serves as a quantum plant, the other as a quantum controller. The addition of coherent feedback enables shaping of the output squeezing spectrum of the plant, and is found to be capable of pushing the frequency of maximum squeezing away from the optical driving frequency and broadening the spectrum over a wider frequency band. The experimental results are in excellent agreement with the developed theory, and illustrate the use of coherent quantum feedback to engineer the quantum-optical properties of the plant OPO output.

id: 1305.2253
title: Experimental Performance of a Quantum Simulator: Optimizing Adiabatic Evolution and Identifying Many-Body Ground States
authors: Philip Richerme, Crystal Senko, Jacob Smith, Aaron Lee, Simcha Korenblit, Christopher Monroe
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012334 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2253
abstract: We use local adiabatic evolution to experimentally create and determine the ground state spin ordering of a fully-connected Ising model with up to 14 spins. Local adiabatic evolution -- in which the system evolution rate is a function of the instantaneous energy gap -- is found to maximize the ground state probability compared with other adiabatic methods while only requiring knowledge of the lowest $\sim N$ of the $2^N$ Hamiltonian eigenvalues. We also demonstrate that the ground state ordering can be experimentally identified as the most probable of all possible spin configurations, even when the evolution is highly non-adiabatic.

id: 1305.2264
title: Three-tangle and Three-¦Ð for a class of tripartite mixed states
authors: Teng ma, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Quantum Bio-Informatic V. pp. 425-434 world Scientific Pubilishing Co. Pte. Ltd. (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2264
abstract: We study the tripartite entanglement for a class of mixed states defined by the mixture of GHZ and W states, \rho=p|GHZ><GHZ|+(1-p)|W><W|. Based on the Caratheodory theorem and the periodicity assumption, the possible optimal decomposition of the states has been derived, which is not independent on the detailed measure of entanglement. We find that, according to p, there are two different decompositions containing 3 or 4 quantum states in the decomposition respectively. When the decomposition contains 3 quantum states, the tripartite entanglement of the mixed state is simply the entanglement of superposition states of GHZ and W. When the decomposition contains 4 quantum states, the tripartite entanglement of the mixed state is a liner function of p. We also study the relations between the three-tangle and three-\pi. It is shown that the three-tangle is smaller than the three-\pi. Moreover, the three-\pi\ has a minimal point in the interval 0 and 1, while the three-tangle is a non decreasing function of p.

id: 1305.2268
title: Quantum Thermodynamics
authors: Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2268
abstract: Quantum thermodynamics addresses the emergence of thermodynamical laws from quantum mechanics. The link is based on the intimate connection of quantum thermodynamics with the theory of open quantum systems. Quantum mechanics inserts dynamics into thermodynamics giving a sound foundation to finite-time-thermodynamics. The emergence of the 0-law I-law II-law and III-law of thermodynamics from quantum considerations is presented. The emphasis is on consistence between the two theories which address the same subject from different foundations. We claim that inconsistency is the result of faulty analysis pointing to flaws in approximations.

id: 1305.2305
title: Entanglement, Nonlocality, Superluminal Signaling and Cloning
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi
comments: 29 pages, 4 figures, Book Chapter of: Advances in Quantum Mechanics, P. Bracken, ed. INTECH, 2013 Note: after having submitted this paper to the arXives, I realized that there is a mistake in eq.(1). In the last expression at the r.h.s. the p_{i} under the sum should appear squared
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2305
abstract: The paper is a Chapter of a book. In it an exhaustive review of the proposals to send faster than light signals resorting to quantum nonlocality and the reduction process is presented, together with a critical analysis and rebuttal of all proposals. The most interesting part of the Chapter is the one in which the problem of quantum cloning is discussed. Actually, a proposal of superluminal signaling based on an hypothetical cloning machine has been presented by N. Herbert. The proposal does not work just because of the assumption that one can clone nonorthogonal states. The fact that such a machine is incompatible with quantum theory (i.e., the so-called No-Cloning Theorem) has been proved, for the first time, by the author of the present chapter in his referee's report to Herbert's paper. In the final part of the paper some recent (different but similarly not correct) proposals are analyzed and the reasons for which they are basically wrong are presented.

id: 1305.2341
title: Dynamics and equilibration of Rydberg excitations in dissipative atomic ensembles
authors: David Petrosyan
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 141001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2341
abstract: We study resonant optical excitations of strongly-interacting Rydberg states of atoms in the presence of relaxations. We employ the quantum stochastic (Monte Carlo) wavefunctions to simulate the dissipative dynamics of tens of atoms in two-dimensional lattices. We show that under typical experimental conditions involving slow Rydberg state decay and sizable relaxation of atomic coherences, on the time scale of several microseconds the atomic ensemble approaches a stationary state in which much of the quantum correlations between the atoms have decayed away. The steady state, however, exhibits strong classical correlations of Rydberg excitation probabilities.

id: 1305.2351
title: Two-photon absorption and emission by Rydberg atoms in coupled cavities
authors: Huaizhi Wu, Zhen-Biao Yang, Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043816 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2351
abstract: We study the dynamics of a system composed of two coupled cavities, each containing a single Rydberg atom. The interplay between Rydberg-Rydberg interaction and photon hopping enables the transition of the atoms from the collective ground state to the double Rydberg excitation state by individually interacting with the hybrid cavity modes and suppressing the up conversion process between them. The atomic transition is accompanied by the two-photon absorption and emission of the hybrid modes. Since the energy level structure of the atom-cavity system is photon number dependent, there is only a pair of states being in the two-photon resonance. Therefore, the system can act as a quantum nonlinear absorption filter through the nonclassical quantum process, converting coherent light field into a non-classical state. Meanwhile, the vacuum field in the cavity inspires the Rydberg atoms to simultaneously emit two photons into the hybrid mode, resulting in obvious emission enhancement of the mode.

id: 1305.2361
title: Nonlinear cross-Kerr quasiclassical dynamics
authors: I. Rigas, A. B. Klimov, L. L. Sanchez-Soto, G. Leuchs
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 043038 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2361
abstract: We study the quasiclassical dynamics of the cross-Kerr effect. In this approximation, the typical periodical revivals of the decorrelation between the two polarization modes disappear and they remain entangled. By mapping the dynamics onto the Poincare space, we find simple conditions for polarization squeezing. When dissipation is taken into account, the shape of the states in such a space is not considerably modified, but their size is reduced.

id: 1305.2385
title: Extremal entanglement witnesses
authors: Leif Ove Hansen, Andreas Hauge, Jan Myrheim, Per ?yvind Sollid
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2385
abstract: We have studied extremal entanglement witnesses on a bipartite composite quantum system. A Hermitian matrix $\Omega$ is an entanglement witness if $\Tr\Omega\rho\geq 0$ when $\rho$ is a pure product state, $\rho=\psi\psi^{\dag}$ with $\psi=\phi\otimes\chi$. The set of normalized witnesses is a compact convex set, defined by its extremal points. The expectation value $\Tr\Omega\rho$ as a function of vectors $\phi$ and $\chi$ is a positive semidefinite biquadratic form. Every zero of the form imposes strong constraints. The first derivative must vanish, and the Hessian matrix at the zero must be positive semidefinite. The eigenvectors of the Hessian with zero eigenvalue, if such exist, we call Hessian zeros. A zero of the biquadratic form is quadratic if it has no Hessian zeros, otherwise it is quartic. We prove that a witness is extremal if and only if no other witness has the same set, or a larger set, of zeros and Hessian zeros. The complete set of constraints defined by the zeros and Hessian zeros of a witness gives a test for extremality, showing all directions, if any, in which to search for witnesses that have more zeros or Hessian zeros and hence are more nearly extremal. Iterated searches in random directions lead to an extremal witness, usually with a fixed number of isolated quadratic zeros. In spite of the fact that extremal witnesses of this type are by far the most common, it seems that they have never been described in the literature. We discuss briefly some related topics: the relation between the facial structures of the dual sets of witnesses and separable states; extremality and optimality of witnesses; and a conjecture of separability of the structural physical approximation (SPA) of an optimal witness. We point out the possibility of treating the entanglement witnesses on a complex Hilbert space as a subset of the witnesses on a real Hilbert space.

id: 1305.2409
title: Weak Measurement and (Bohmian) Conditional Wave Functions
authors: Travis Norsen, Ward Struyve
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures; added section on density matrices
journal: Annals of Physics 350 (2014) 166-178
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2409
abstract: It was recently pointed out (and demonstrated experimentally) by Lundeen et al. that the wave function of a particle (more precisely, the wave function possessed by each member of an ensemble of identically-prepared particles) can be "directly measured" using weak measurement. Here it is shown that if this same technique is applied, with appropriate post-selection, to one particle from a (perhaps entangled) multi-particle system, the result is precisely the so-called "conditional wave function" of Bohmian mechanics. Thus, a plausibly operationalist method for defining the wave function of a quantum mechanical sub-system corresponds to the natural definition of a sub-system wave function which Bohmian mechanics (uniquely) makes possible. Similarly, a weak-measurement-based procedure for directly measuring a sub-system's density matrix should yield, under appropriate circumstances, the Bohmian "conditional density matrix" as opposed to the standard reduced density matrix. Experimental arrangements to demonstrate this behavior -- and also thereby reveal the non-local dependence of sub-system state functions on distant interventions -- are suggested and discussed.

id: 1305.2416
title: Quantum theory of light double-slit diffraction
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Hong Li, Bo-Jun Zhang, Ji Ma, Xiao-Jing Liu, Nuo Ba, He Dong, Si-Qi Zhang, Jing Wang, Yi-Heng Wu, Xin-Guo Yin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2416
abstract: In this paper, we study the light double-slit diffraction experiment with quantum theory approach. Firstly, we calculate the light wave function in slits by quantum theory of photon. Secondly, we calculate the diffraction wave function with Kirchhoff's law. Thirdly, we give the diffraction intensity of light double-slit diffraction, which is proportional to the square of diffraction wave function. Finally, we compare calculation result of quantum theory and classical electromagnetic theory with the experimental data. We find the quantum calculate result is accordance with the experiment data, and the classical calculation result with certain deviation. So, the quantum theory is more accurately approach for studying light diffraction.

id: 1305.2417
title: Full Quantum Theory of ${C_{60}}$ Double-slit Diffraction
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Ji Ma, Bo-Jun Zhang, Hong Li, Xiao-Jing Liu, Nuo Ba, Si-Qi Zhang, Jing Wang, He Dong, Xin-Guo Yin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2417
abstract: In this paper, we apply the full new method of quantum theory to study the double-slit diffraction of ${C_{60}}$ molecules. We calculate the double-slit wave functions of ${C_{60}}$ molecules by Schr\"{o}dinger equation, and calculate the diffraction wave function behind the slits with the Feynman path integral quantum theory, and then give the relation between the diffraction intensity of double-slit and diffraction pattern position. We compare the calculation results with two different double-slit diffraction experiments. When the decoherence effects are considered, the calculation results are in good agreement with the two experimental data.

id: 1305.2457
title: Demonstration of Motion Transduction Based on Parametrically Coupled Mechanical Resonators
authors: Pu Huang, Pengfei Wang, Jingwei Zhou, Zixiang Wang, Chenyong Ju, Zimeng Wang, Yang Shen, Changkui Duan, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2457
abstract: Universal sensing the motion of mechanical resonators with high precision and low back-action is of paramount importance in ultra-weak signal detection which plays a fundamental role in modern physics. Here we present a universal scheme that transfer mechanically the motion of the resonator not directly measurable to the one can be precisely measured using mechanical frequency conversion. Demonstration of the scheme at room temperature shows that both the motion imprecision and the back-action force are below the intrinsic level of the objective resonator, which agree well with our theoretical prediction. The scheme developed here provides an effective interface between an arbitrary mechanical resonator and a high quantum efficient displacement sensor, and is expected to find extensive applications in high-demanding mechanical-based force measurements.

id: 1305.2464
title: Quantum Zeno Effect of General Quantum Operations
authors: Ying Li, David Herrera-Marti, Leong Chuan Kwek
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042321 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2464
abstract: In this paper, we show that the quantum Zeno effect occurs for any frequent quantum measurements or operations. As a result of the Zeno effect, for non-selective measurements (or trace preserving completely positive maps), the evolution of a measurement invariant state is governed by an effective Hamiltonian defined by the measurements and the free-evolution Hamiltonian. For selective measurements, the state may change randomly with time according to measurement outcomes, while some physical quantities (operators) still evolve as the effective dynamics.

id: 1305.2479
title: Quantum teleportation of spin coherent states: beyond continuous variables teleportation
authors: Alexey Pyrkov, Tim Byrnes
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 16, 073038 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2479
abstract: We introduce a quantum teleportation scheme that can transfer a macroscopic spin coherent state between two locations. In the scheme a large number of copies of a qubit, such as realized in a coherent two-component Bose-Einstein condensate, is teleported onto a distant macroscopic spin coherent state using only elementary operations and measurements. We analyze the error of the protocol with the number of particles N in the spin coherent state under decoherence and find that it scales favorably with N.

id: 1305.2488
title: QED with a parabolic mirror
authors: G. Alber, J. Z. Bern¨¢d, M. Stobi¨½ska, L.L.S¨¢nchez-Soto, G. Leuchs
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023825 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2488
abstract: We investigate the quantum electrodynamics of a single two-level atom located at the focus of a parabolic cavity. We first work out the modifications of the spontaneous emission induced by the presence of this boundary in the optical regime, where the dipole and the rotating-wave approximations apply. Furthermore, the single-photon state that leaves the cavity asymptotically is determined. The corresponding time-reversed single-photon quantum state is capable of exciting the atom in this extreme multimode scenario with near-unit probability. Using semiclassical methods, we derive a photon-path representation for the relevant transition amplitudes and show that it constitutes a satisfactory approximation for a wide range of wavelengths.

id: 1305.2492
title: Quantum reflection from an oscillating surface
authors: Benedikt Herwerth, Maarten DeKieviet, Javier Madronero, Sandro Wimberger
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 141002 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2492
abstract: We describe an experimentally realistic situation of the quantum reflection of helium atoms from an oscillating surface. The temporal modulation of the potential induces clear sidebands in the reflection probability as a function of momentum. Theses sidebands could be exploited to slow down atoms and molecules in the experiment.

id: 1305.2517
title: Dividing Line between Quantum and Classical Trajectories: Bohmian Time Constant
authors: Antonio B. Nassar, Salvador Miret-Art¨¦s
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111 (2013) 150401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2517
abstract: This work proposes an answer to a challenge posed by Bell on the lack of clarity in regards to the line between the quantum and classical regimes in a measurement problem. To this end, a generalized logarithmic nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation is proposed to describe the time evolution of a quantum dissipative system under continuous measurement. Within the Bohmian mechanics framework, a solution to this equation reveals a novel result: it displays a time constant which should represent the dividing line between the quantum and classical trajectories. It is shown that continuous measurements and damping not only disturb the particle but compel the system to converge in time to a Newtonian regime. While the width of the wave packet may reach a stationary regime, its quantum trajectories converge exponentially in time to classical trajectories. In particular, it is shown that damping tends to suppress further quantum effects on a time scale shorter than the relaxation time of the system. If the initial wave packet width is taken to be equal to 2.8 10^{-15} m (the approximate size of an electron), the Bohmian time constant is found to have an upper limit, i. e., ${\tau_{B\max}} = {10^{- 26}}s$.

id: 1305.2519
title: Three-box paradox and "Cheshire cat grin": the case of spin-1 atoms
authors: A. Matzkin, A. K. Pan
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 315307 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2519
abstract: We propose in this work a definite theoretical implementation of the three-box paradox - a scheme in which a single quantum particle appears to be present with certainty in two separate boxes - with spin-1 atoms. We further show how our setup can give rise to a "Cheshire cat grin" type of situation, in which an atom can apparently be found with certainty in one of the boxes while one of its properties (the angular momentum projection along a specifically chosen axis) appears to be in a different box. The significance of our findings are discussed relative to the status of the properties of a system obtained from weak measurements.

id: 1305.2526
title: Quantum simulations of localization effects with dipolar interactions
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Robin Kaiser, Dieter Suter
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 525, 833 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2526
abstract: Quantum information processing often uses systems with dipolar interactions. We use a nuclear spin-based quantum simulator, to study the spreading of information in such a dipolar-coupled system and how perturbations to the dipolar couplings limit the spreading, leading to localization. In [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 230403 (2010)], we found that the system reaches a dynamic equilibrium size, which decreases with the square of the perturbation strength. Here, we study the impact of a disordered Hamiltonian with dipolar 1/r^3 interactions. We show that the expansion of the coherence length of the cluster size of the spins becomes frozen in the presence of large disorder, reminiscent of Anderson localization of non-interacting waves in a disordered potential.

id: 1305.2560
title: Classification of Spin-Nematic Squeezing in Spin-1 Collective Atomic Systems
authors: Emi Yukawa, Masahito Ueda, Kae Nemoto
comments: 15pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2560
abstract: In spin-1 collective atomic systems, the spin and nematic-tensor operators constitute the su(3) Lie algebra whose su(2) subalgebras are shown to give two distinct classes of squeezing which are unitarily equivalent to spin squeezing and spin-nematic squeezing. We explicitly construct a unitary operator that generates an arbitrary squeezed spin-nematic state from an arbitrary Fock state. In particular, we demonstrate that squeezed spin states can be generated from a polar state and that squeezed spin-nematic sates can be generated from a fully spin-polarized state.

id: 1305.2590
title: Quantum mechanical uncertainties and exact transition amplitudes for time dependent quadratic Hamiltonian
authors: Gal Harari, Yacob Ben-Aryeh, Ady Mann
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 18 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2590
abstract: In this work we present the simplest generic form of the propagator for the time-dependent quadratic Hamiltonian. We manifest the simplicity of our method by giving explicitly the propagators for a free particle in time-dependent electric field, forced harmonic oscillator and the Paul trap. Exact transition amplitudes and uncertainties are calculated analytically for the Paul trap and harmonic oscillator. The results show that near the instability regions very large quantum mechanical uncertainties are obtained as demonstrated in a special figure. The method is also applied to calculating the trajectory of a classical forced time-dependent harmonic oscillator.

id: 1305.2595
title: A hidden analytic structure of the Rabi model
authors: Alexander Moroz
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures - the amended versions gives more emphasis on the role played by discrete orthogonal polynomials in solving the Rabi model. New subsection IV.E summarizes open problems required to generalize the classical discrete Charlier polynomials describing the displaced harmonic oscillator into non-classical discrete polynomials describing the full Rabi model
journal: Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) 340, 252-266 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2595
abstract: The Rabi model describes the simplest interaction between a cavity mode with a frequency $\omega_c$ and a two-level system with a resonance frequency $\omega_0$. It is shown here that the spectrum of the Rabi model coincides with the support of the discrete Stieltjes integral measure in the orthogonality relations of recently introduced orthogonal polynomials. The exactly solvable limit of the Rabi model corresponding to $\Delta=\omega_0/(2\omega_c)=0$, which describes a displaced harmonic oscillator, is characterized by the discrete Charlier polynomials in normalized energy $\upepsilon$, which are orthogonal on an equidistant lattice. A non-zero value of $\Delta$ leads to non-classical discrete orthogonal polynomials $\phi_{k}(\upepsilon)$ and induces a deformation of the underlying equidistant lattice. The results provide a basis for a novel analytic method of solving the Rabi model. The number of ca. {\em 1350} calculable energy levels per parity subspace obtained in double precision (cca 16 digits) by an elementary stepping algorithm is up to two orders of magnitude higher than is possible to obtain by Braak's solution. Any first $n$ eigenvalues of the Rabi model arranged in increasing order can be determined as zeros of $\phi_{N}(\upepsilon)$ of at least the degree $N=n+n_t$. The value of $n_t>0$, which is slowly increasing with $n$, depends on the required precision. For instance, $n_t\simeq 26$ for $n=1000$ and dimensionless interaction constant $\kappa=0.2$, if double precision is required. Although we can rigorously prove our results only for dimensionless interaction constant $\kappa< 1$, numerics and exactly solvable example suggest that the main conclusions remain to be valid also for $\kappa\ge 1$.

id: 1305.2596
title: Hermite Polynomial Representation of the Spin States
authors: Dmitry B. Lemeshevskiy, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 10 pages
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research 34 (2013) 175-184
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2596
abstract: The invertable map of spin state density operator onto quasiprobability distribution of three continuous variables is constructed. The connection with two-mode electromagnetic field oscillators is discussed. The inversion formula for spin-density matrix is given in terms of Hermite polynomials. The connection with the spin-tomographic representation is examined. The problem of the magnetic moment rotation in the magnetic field is considered in the suggested representation of spin states.

id: 1305.2604
title: Bound entanglement in the Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Nicol¨¢s Quesada, Anna Sanpera
comments: Improved abstract, references and new section on the generation of bound entanglement using the JC interaction
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2604
abstract: We study in detail entanglement properties of the Jaynes-Cummings model assuming a two-level atom (qubit) interacting with the first $N$ levels of an electromagnetic field mode (qudit) in a cavity. In the Jaynes-Cummings model, the number operator is the conserved quantity that allows for the exact diagonalization of the Hamiltonian and thus we study states that commute with this conserved quantity and whose structure is preserved under the Jaynes-Cummings dynamics. Contrary to the common belief, we show that there are bound entangled states that satisfy the symmetries imposed by the conservation of the number of excitations when $N>3$. Furthermore we show that \emph{the Jaynes-Cummings interaction can be used to generate bound-entanglement} between the atom and the mode.

id: 1305.2675
title: Single-Photon-Level Quantum Image Memory Based on Cold Atomic Ensembles
authors: Dong-Sheng Ding, Zhi-Yuan Zhou, Bao-Sen Shi, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Comments welcome, the coherence of the photon is verified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2675
abstract: An important step towards the successful development of network that allows the distribution of quantum information is the storage of light in a matter at the single-photon level. Encoding photons in high-dimensional photonic states can significantly increase their information-carrying capacity. So far, there is no any report on the storage of an image at true single photon level, realizing a quantum memory that can record the shape of a single photon is a challenging work. In this work, we report on the first experimental realization of storing a true single photon carrying an orbital angular momentum via electromagnetically induced transparency in a cold atomic ensemble and retrieved later after a given storage time. We experimentally not only prove the preservation of the property of the single photon, but also show very good similarity on the spatial structures of the input and the retrieved photons. More importantly, we also demonstrate the preservation of the coherence of the single photon during the storage using a Sagnac interferometer. The demonstrated capability of storing a spatial structure at single-photon-level opens the possibility to the realization of a high-dimensional quantum memory.

id: 1305.2721
title: Uncertainty of Weak Measurement and Merit of Amplification
authors: Jaeha Lee, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: Paper: 5 pages, 1 figure. Supplemental Material: 12 pages, 0 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2721
abstract: Aharonov's weak value, which is a physical quantity obtainable by weak measurement, admits amplification and hence is deemed to be useful for precision measurement. We examine the significance of the amplification based on the uncertainty of measurement, and show that the trade-offs among the three (systematic, statistical and nonlinear) components of the uncertainty inherent in the weak measurement will set an upper limit on the usable amplification. Apart from the Gaussian state models employed for demonstration, our argument is completely general; it is free from approximation and valid for arbitrary observables $A$ and couplings $g$.

id: 1305.2733
title: Anomalous Paths in Quantum Mechanical Path-Integrals
authors: Arne L. Grimsmo, John R. Klauder, Bo-Sture K. Skagerstam
comments: 7 pages,6 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. B, 727, 330-335, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2733
abstract: We investigate modifications of the discrete-time lattice action, for a quantum mechanical particle in one spatial dimension, that vanish in the na\"ive continuum limit but which, nevertheless, induce non-trivial effects due to quantum fluctuations. These effects are seen to modify the geometry of the paths contributing to the path-integral describing the time evolution of the particle, which we investigate through numerical simulations. In particular, we demonstrate the existence of a modified lattice action resulting in paths with any fractal dimension, d_f, between one and two. We argue that d_f=2 is a critical value, and we exhibit a type of lattice modification where the fluctuations in the position of the particle becomes independent of the time step, in which case the paths are interpreted as superdiffusive L\'{e}vy flights. We also consider the jaggedness of the paths, and show that this gives an independent classification of lattice theories.

id: 1305.2762
title: Open quantum systems and Dicke superradiance
authors: Hichem Eleuch, Ingrid Rotter
comments: Change of the title, addition of two appendices with details on dynamical phase transitions and open quantum systems, resp. The final publication is available at link.springer.com
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2762
abstract: We study generic features of open quantum systems embedded into a continuum of scattering wavefunctions and compare them with results discussed in optics. A dynamical phase transition may appear at high level density in a many-level system and also in a two-level system if the coupling $W$ to the environment is complex and sufficiently large. Here nonlinearities occur. When $W_{ij}$ is imaginary, two singular (exceptional) points may exist. In the parameter range between these two points, width bifurcation occurs as function of a certain external parameter. A unitary representation of the S-matrix allows to calculate the cross section for a two-level system, including at the exceptional point (double pole of the S-matrix). The results obtained for the transition of level repulsion at small (real) $W_{ij}$ to width bifurcation at large (imaginary) $W_{ij}$ show qualitatively the same features that are observed experimentally in the transition from Autler-Townes splitting to electromagnetically induced transparency in optics. Fermi's golden rule holds only below the dynamical phase transition while it passes into an anti-golden rule beyond this transition. The results are generic and can be applied to the response of a complex open quantum system to the action of an external field (environment). They may be considered as a guideline for engineering and manipulating quantum systems in such a way that they can be used for applications with special requirements.

id: 1305.2763
title: Quantum Error Correction Implementation after Multiple Gates
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: updated - 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012325 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2763
abstract: Correcting errors is a vital but expensive component of fault tolerant quantum computation. Standard fault tolerant protocol assumes the implementation of error correction, via syndrome measurements and possible recovery operations, after every quantum gate. In fact, this is not necessary. Here we demonstrate that error correction should be applied more sparingly. We simulate encoded single-qubit rotations within the [[7,1,3]] code and show via fidelity measures that applying error correction after every gate is not desirable.

id: 1305.2782
title: On the appearance of a Dirac delta term at the origin in the Schroedinger radial equation
authors: J. Etxebarria
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2782
abstract: We revisit a recent discussion about the boundary condition at the origin in the Schroedinger radial equation for central potentials. Using a slight modification of the usual spherical coordinates, the origin of a previously reported Dirac delta function term at the origin is clearly shown up. As a consequence, a vanishing boundary condition at the origin must be imposed in solving the radial equation, regardless the kind of potential.

id: 1305.2783
title: Solovay-Kitaev Decomposition Strategy for Single-Qubit Channels
authors: Dong-Sheng Wang, Dominic W. Berry, Marcos C. de Oliveira, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 130504 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2783
abstract: Inspired by the Solovay-Kitaev decomposition for approximating unitary operations as a sequence of operations selected from a universal quantum computing gate set, we introduce a method for approximating any single-qubit channel using single-qubit gates and the controlled-NOT (CNOT). Our approach uses the decomposition of the single-qubit channel into a convex combination of "quasiextreme" channels. Previous techniques for simulating general single-qubit channels would require as many as 20 CNOT gates, whereas ours only needs one, bringing it within the range of current experiments.

id: 1305.2794
title: Coherent dynamical recoupling of diffusion-driven decoherence in magnetic resonance
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Noam Shemesh, Lucio Frydman
comments: Maintext: 6 pages, 3 figures. Supplementary Information: 4 pages, 1 figure. A typo was corrected on Eq. (S.10) from the Supplementary Information
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 080404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2794
abstract: During recent years, dynamical decoupling (DD) has gained relevance as a tool for manipulating quantum systems and extracting information from them. This is particularly relevant for spins involved in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), where DD sequences can be used to prolong quantum coherences, or for selectively couple/decouple the effects imposed by random environmental fluctuations. In this Letter, we show that one can exploit these concepts in order to selectively recouple diffusion processes in restricted spaces. The ensuing method provides a novel tool to measure restriction lengths in confined systems such as capillaries, pores or cells. The principles of this method for selectively recoupling diffusion-driven decoherence, its standing within the context of diffusion NMR, and corroborating experiments, are presented.

id: 1305.2798
title: Individual Addressing in Quantum Computation through Spatial Refocusing
authors: Chao Shen, Zhe-xuan Gong, Luming Duan
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052325 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2798
abstract: Separate addressing of individual qubits is a challenging requirement for scalable quantum computation, and crosstalk between operations on neighboring qubits remains as a significant source of noise for current experimental implementation of multi-qubit platforms. We propose a scheme based on spatial refocusing from interference of several coherent laser beams to significantly reduce the crosstalk noise for any type of quantum gates. A general framework is developed for the spatial refocusing technique, in particular with practical Gaussian beams, and we show under typical experimental conditions, the crosstalk-induced infidelity of quantum gates can be reduced by several orders of magnitude with a moderate cost of a few correction laser beams.

id: 1305.2802
title: Elementary spacetime cycles
authors: Donatello Dolce
comments: 6 pages. Accepted for publication in Europhysics Letters (EPL) 30 April 2013
journal: Europhys. Lett., 102 (2013) 31002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2802
abstract: Every system in physics is described in terms of interacting elementary particles characterized by modulated spacetime recurrences. These intrinsic periodicities, implicit in undulatory mechanics, imply that every free particle is a reference clock linking time to the particle's mass, and every system is formalizable by means of modulated elementary spacetime cycles. We propose a novel consistent relativistic formalism based on intrinsically cyclic spacetime dimensions, encoding the quantum recurrences of elementary particles into spacetime geometrodynamics. The advantage of the resulting theory is a formal derivation of quantum behaviors from relativistic mechanics, in which the constraint of intrinsic periodicity turns out to quantize the elementary particles; as well as a geometrodynamical description of gauge interaction which, similarly to gravity, turns out to be represented by relativistic modulations of the internal clocks of the elementary particles. The characteristic classical to quantum correspondence of the theory brings novel conceptual and formal elements to address fundamental open questions of modern physics.

id: 1305.2816
title: Quantum instruments as a foundation for both states and observables
authors: Justin Dressel, Andrew N. Jordan
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022107 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2816
abstract: We demonstrate that quantum instruments can provide a unified operational foundation for quantum theory. Since these instruments directly correspond to laboratory devices, this foundation provides an alternate, more experimentally grounded, perspective from which to understand the elements of the traditional approach. We first show that in principle all measurable probabilities and correlations can be expressed entirely in terms of quantum instruments without the need for conventional quantum states or observables. We then show how these states and observables reappear as derived quantities by conditioning joint detection probabilities on the first or last measurement in a sequence as a preparation or a post-selection. Both predictive and retrodictive versions of states and observables appear in this manner, as well as more exotic bidirectional and interdictive states and observables that cannot be easily expressed using the traditional approach. We also revisit the conceptual meaning of the Heisenberg and Schr\"{o}dinger pictures of time evolution as applied to the various derived quantities, illustrate how detector loss can be included naturally, and discuss how the instrumental approach fully generalizes the time-symmetric two-vector approach of Aharonov \emph{et al.} to any realistic laboratory situation.

id: 1305.2818
title: Entanglement criteria for Dicke states
authors: Marcel Bergmann, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures; updated to match published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 385304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2818
abstract: Dicke states are a family of multi-qubit quantum states with interesting entanglement properties and have been observed in many experiments. We construct entanglement witnesses for detecting genuine multiparticle entanglement in the vicinity of these states. We use the approach of PPT mixtures to derive the conditions analytically. For nearly all cases, our criteria are stronger than all conditions previously known.

id: 1305.2948
title: Logical difficulty from combining counterfactuals in the GHZ-Bell theorems
authors: Louis Sica
comments: 11 pages. Conference: this http URL This paper contains an improved exposition of the ideas presented in the previous paper as a result of the refereeing process
journal: Applied Mathematics, 4, 2013, 90-94
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2948
abstract: In eliminating the fair sampling assumption, the Greenberger, Horne, Zeilinger (GHZ) theorem is believed to confirm Bell's historic conclusion that local hidden variables are inconsistent with the results of quantum mechanics. The GHZ theorem depends on predicting the results of sets of measurements of which only one may be performed. In the present paper, the non-commutative aspects of these unperformed measurements are critically examined. Classical examples and the logic of the GHZ construction are analyzed to demonstrate that combined counterfactual results of non-commuting operations are in general logically inconsistent with performed measurement sequences whose results depend on non-commutation. The Bell theorem is also revisited in the light of this result. It is concluded that negative conclusions regarding local hidden variables do not follow from the GHZ and Bell theorems as historically reasoned.

id: 1305.3042
title: Patterns of Genuine Multipartite Entanglement in Frustrated Quantum Spin Systems
authors: Lavisha Jindal, Ameya Deepak Rane, Himadri Shekhar Dhar, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX 4-1, added text and figure, results unchanged, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012316 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3042
abstract: We investigate the behavior of genuine multipartite entanglement of paradigmatic frustrated quantum spin systems. We consider six different spin models, whose frustration ranges from being very high to very low. We find that the highly frustrated quantum spin systems are near-maximally genuine multipartite entangled, while those with low frustration do not possess a similar definite behavior with regard to their genuine multipartite entanglement.

id: 1305.3069
title: Quantum parameter estimation affected by unitary disturbance
authors: A. De Pasquale, D. Rossini, P. Facchi, V. Giovannetti
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052117 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3069
abstract: We provide a general framework for handling the effects of a unitary disturbance on the estimation of the amplitude $\lambda$ associated to a unitary dynamics. By computing an analytical and general expression for the quantum Fisher information, we prove that the optimal estimation precision for $\lambda$ cannot be outperformed through the addition of such a unitary disturbance. However, if the dynamics of the system is already affected by an external field, increasing its strength does not necessary imply a loss in the optimal estimation precision.

id: 1305.3072
title: Single-photon time-dependent spectra in coupled cavity arrays
authors: Imran M. Mirza, S.J. van Enk, H.J. Kimble
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3072
abstract: We show how the input-output formalism for cascaded quantum systems combined with the quantum trajectory approach yields a compact and physically intuitive description of single photons propagating through a coupled cavity array. As a new application we obtain the time-dependent spectrum of such a single photon, which directly reflects the fact that only certain frequency components of single-photon wavepackets are trapped inside the cavities and hence are delayed in time. We include in our description the actual generation of the single photon, by assuming we have a single emitter in one of the resonators.

id: 1305.3077
title: Non-thermal quantum phase transitions
authors: Ricardo Puebla, Armando Rela?o
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3077
abstract: We report a kind of quantum phase transition which takes place in isolated quantum systems with non-thermal equilibrium states and an extra symmetry that commutes with the Hamiltonian for any values of the system parameters. A critical energy separates two different phases, one in which the symmetry is broken. This critical behavior is ruled out as soon as the system is put in contact with a thermal bath. The critical point is crossed when a sufficent amount of work is performed on the system, keeping it isolated from the environment. Different phases are identified by means of an order parameter, which is only different from zero in the symmetry-breaking phase. The behavior of the system near the critical point is determined by a set of critical exponents. We illustrate this phenomenon by means of numerical calculations in three different two-level systems.

id: 1305.3083
title: Anomalous second order coherence and $g^{(2)}$ complementarity
authors: Ron Folman
comments: Invited talk for SPIE 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3083
abstract: This paper is a summary of my talk at SPIE2013. The organizers were kind enough to invite me to talk about anything I wanted, and I chose to bring up the notion of higher order complementarity and the fact that it may not be monotonic. I enter this discussion, which is rather speculative at this stage, by calculating a specific example. This is to be regarded as work in progress. We analyze a two-particle state and show that when mismatching the detector frequency response and the field frequency spectrum, several anomalous features become apparent. In particular, while we find several well known features, such as $g^{(2)}(\tau=0)=1/2$ for completely indistinguishable particles, we also find that as the photons are slightly separated and may be distinguished, $g^{(2)}$ may oscillate as a function of the detector bandwidth. Beyond the latter interesting observation for which we cannot find a simple physical origin, we also suggest, an interpretation with regard to an oscillating $g^{(2)}$ complementarity.

id: 1305.3166
title: The paradox of the Casimir force in inhomogeneous transformation media
authors: William M. R. Simpson
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 063852 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3166
abstract: It has recently been argued that Casimir-Lifshitz forces depend in detail on the microphysics of a system; calculations of the Casimir force in inhomogeneous media yield results that are cutoff-dependent. This result has been shown to hold generally. But suppose we introduce an inhomogeneous metamaterial into a cavity that effectively implements a simple distortion of the coordinate system. Considered in its 'virtual space', the optical properties of such a material are homogeneous and consequently free from the cutoff-dependency associated with inhomogeneous media. This conclusion should be reconciled with recent advances in our understanding of Casimir-Lifshitz forces. We consider an example of such a system here and demonstrate that, whilst the size of the Casimir force is modified by the inhomogeneous medium, the force is cutoff-independent and can be stated exactly. The apparent paradox dissolves when we recognise that an idealised metamaterial that could implement a virtual geometry for all frequencies would be devoid of internal scattering, and would not give rise to a cutoff-dependency in the Casimir force for that reason.

id: 1305.3188
title: General rules for bosonic bunching in multimode interferometers
authors: N. Spagnolo, C. Vitelli, L. Sansoni, E. Maiorino, P. Mataloni, F. Sciarrino, D. J. Brod, E. F. Galvao, A. Crespi, R. Ramponi, R. Osellame
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, and supplementary material (4 pages, 1 figure)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 130503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3188
abstract: We perform a comprehensive set of experiments that characterize bosonic bunching of up to 3 photons in interferometers of up to 16 modes. Our experiments verify two rules that govern bosonic bunching. The first rule, obtained recently in [1,2], predicts the average behavior of the bunching probability and is known as the bosonic birthday paradox. The second rule is new, and establishes a n!-factor quantum enhancement for the probability that all n bosons bunch in a single output mode, with respect to the case of distinguishable bosons. Besides its fundamental importance in phenomena such as Bose-Einstein condensation, bosonic bunching can be exploited in applications such as linear optical quantum computing and quantum-enhanced metrology.

id: 1305.3222
title: Minimum number of input states required for quantum gate characterization
authors: Daniel M. Reich, Giulia Gualdi, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042309 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3222
abstract: We derive an algebraic framework which identifies the minimal information required to assess how well a quantum device implements a desired quantum operation. Our approach is based on characterizing only the unitary part of an open system's evolution. We show that a reduced set of input states is sufficient to estimate the average fidelity of a quantum gate, avoiding a sampling over the full Liouville space. Surprisingly, the minimal set consists of only two input states, independent of the Hilbert space dimension. The minimal set is, however, impractical for device characterization since one of the states is a totally mixed thermal state and extracting bounds for the average fidelity is impossible. We therefore present two further reduced sets of input states that allow, respectively, for numerical and analytical bounds on the average fidelity.

id: 1305.3223
title: More bang for your buck: Towards super-adiabatic quantum engines
authors: A. del Campo, J. Goold, M. Paternostro
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 6208 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3223
abstract: The reversible nature of thermodynamical cycles is an idealisation based on the assumption of perfect quasi-static dynamics. As a consequence of this assumption, ideal engines operate at the maximum efficiency but have zero power. Realistic engines, on the other hand, operate in finite-time and are intrinsically irreversible, implying friction effects at short cycle times. The engineering goal is to find the maximum efficiency allowed at the maximum possible power. In the current technological age, with our ability to manipulate devices at the nanoscale and beyond, one must understand the consequences of engines which operate at the quantum mechanical level. In this domain one cannot avoid the emergence of both quantum and thermal fluctuations which drastically alter the energetics of the cycle. Very recently, it has been shown that the Hamiltonian of a quantum system may be manipulated in such a way as to mimic an adiabatic process via a non-adiabatic shortcut. A surge of experimental progress has demonstrated several of these proposals in the laboratory. In this paper we show that, by utilising shortcuts to adiabaticity in a quantum engine cycle, one can engineer a thermodynamical cycle working at finite power and zero friction. Our findings are elucidated using a harmonic oscillator undergoing a quantum Otto cycle.

id: 1305.3247
title: Objectivity Through State Broadcasting: The Origins Of Quantum Darwinism
authors: J. K. Korbicz, P. Horodecki, R. Horodecki
comments: Explicit derivation of Eq. (42) added, minor changes in the presentation, 16 pages + 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3247
abstract: Quantum mechanics is one of the most successful theories, correctly predicting huge class of physical phenomena. Ironically, in spite of all its successes, there is a notorious problem: how does Nature create a ''bridge'' from fragile quanta to the robust, objective world of everyday experience? It is now commonly accepted that the most promising approach is the Decoherence Theory, based on the system-environment paradigm. To explain the observed redundancy and objectivity of information in the classical realm, Zurek proposed to divide the environment into independent fractions and argued that each of them carries a nearly complete classical information about the system. This Quantum Darwinism model has nevertheless some serious drawbacks: i) the entropic information redundancy is motivated by a priori purely classical reasoning; ii) there is no answer to the basic question: what physical process makes the transition from quantum description to classical objectivity possible? Here we prove that the necessary and sufficient condition for objective existence of a state is the spectrum broadcasting process, which, in particular, implies Quantum Darwinism. We first show it in general, using multiple environments paradigm, a suitable definition of objectivity, and Bohr's notion of non-disturbance, and then on the emblematic example for Decoherence Theory: a dielectric sphere illuminated by photons. We also apply Perron-Frobenius Theorem to show a faithful, ''decoherence-free'' form of broadcasting. We suggest that the spectrum broadcasting might be one of the foundational properties of Nature, which opens a ''window'' for life processes.

id: 1305.3290
title: Feedback-cooling of an atomic spin ensemble
authors: N. Behbood, M. Napolitano, G. Colangelo, F. Martin Ciurana, R. J. Sewell, M.W. Mitchell
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 103601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3290
abstract: We describe a measurement-and-feedback technique to deterministically prepare low-entropy states of atomic spin ensembles. Using quantum non-demolition measurement and incoherent optical feedback, we drive arbitrary states in the spin-orientation space toward the origin of the spin space. We observe 12 dB of spin noise reduction, or a factor of 63 reduction in phase-space volume. We find optimal feedback conditions and show that multi-stage feedback is advantageous. An input-output calculation of quantum noise incorporating realistic quantum noise sources and experimental limitations agrees well with the observations. The method may have application to generation of exotic phases of ultracold gases, for example macroscopic singlet states and valence-bond solids.

id: 1305.3292
title: Discrete Quantum Theories
authors: Andrew J. Hanson, Gerardo Ortiz, Amr Sabry, Yu-Tsung Tai
comments: 13 pages. Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3292
abstract: We explore finite-field frameworks for quantum theory and quantum computation. The simplest theory, defined over unrestricted finite fields, is unnaturally strong. A second framework employs only finite fields with no solution to x^2+1=0, and thus permits an elegant complex representation of the extended field by adjoining i=\sqrt{-1}. Quantum theories over these fields recover much of the structure of conventional quantum theory except for the condition that vanishing inner products arise only from null states; unnaturally strong computational power may still occur. Finally, we are led to consider one more framework, with further restrictions on the finite fields, that recovers a local transitive order and a locally-consistent notion of inner product with a new notion of cardinal probability. In this framework, conventional quantum mechanics and quantum computation emerge locally (though not globally) as the size of the underlying field increases. Interestingly, the framework allows one to choose separate finite fields for system description and for measurement: the size of the first field quantifies the resources needed to describe the system and the size of the second quantifies the resources used by the observer. This resource-based perspective potentially provides insights into quantitative measures for actual computational power, the complexity of quantum system definition and evolution, and the independent question of the cost of the measurement process.

id: 1305.3357
title: Quantum enhanced metrology in the presence of arbitrary loss
authors: J.G. Rarity, B. Bell, A.B. Young, C.Y. Hu
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to some crucial errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3357
abstract: We introduce the concept of entanglement enhanced interferometry from the viewpoint of the detected photons. The standard quantum limit is achieved when sequentially detected photons are assumed to be in an uncorrelated product state. However when we access the correlations between the detected photons that existed before the interferometer it becomes clear that entanglement enhanced measurement beyond the quantum limit could be achieved independent of loss. We describe possible realisations of this post-measurement entanglement detection using a small array of spin photon entangling gates. We then describe a proof of principle experiment using only linear optics resources.

id: 1305.3383
title: Stable control of 10 dB two-mode squeezed vacuum states of light
authors: Tobias Eberle, Vitus H?ndchen, Roman Schnabel
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express 21, 11546-11553 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3383
abstract: Continuous variable entanglement is a fundamental resource for many quantum information tasks. Important protocols like superactivation of zero-capacity channels and finite-size quantum cryptography that provides security against most general attacks, require about 10 dB two-mode squeezing. Additionally, stable phase control mechanisms are necessary but are difficult to achieve because the total amount of optical loss to the entangled beams needs to be small. Here, we experimentally demonstrate a control scheme for two-mode squeezed vacuum states at the telecommunication wavelength of 1550 nm. Our states exhibited an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen covariance product of 0.0309 \pm 0.0002, where 1 is the critical value, and a Duan inseparability value of 0.360 \pm 0.001, where 4 is the critical value. The latter corresponds to 10.45 \pm 0.01 dB which reflects the average non-classical noise suppression of the two squeezed vacuum states used to generate the entanglement. With the results of this work demanding quantum information protocols will become feasible.

id: 1305.3442
title: Complementary sequential measurements generate entanglement
authors: Patrick J. Coles, Marco Piani
comments: 5+3 pages, 1 figure, To appear in Physical Review A: Rapid Communications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 010302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3442
abstract: We present a new paradigm for capturing the complementarity of two observables. It is based on the entanglement created by the interaction between the system observed and the two measurement devices used to measure the observables sequentially. Our main result is a lower bound on this entanglement and resembles well-known entropic uncertainty relations. Besides its fundamental interest, this result directly bounds the effectiveness of sequential bipartite operations---corresponding to the measurement interactions---for entanglement generation. We further discuss the intimate connection of our result with two primitives of information processing, namely, decoupling and coherent teleportation.

id: 1305.3443
title: Activation of entanglement in teleportation
authors: Ryszard Weinar, Wieslaw Laskowski, Marcin Pawlowski
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 46,435301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3443
abstract: We study the activation of entanglement in teleportation protocols. To this end, we a present derivation of the average fidelity of teleportation process with noisy classical channel for qudits. In our work we do not make any assumptions about the entangled states shared by communicating parties. Our result allows us to specify the minimum amount of classical information required to beat the classical limit when the protocol is based on the Bell measurements. We also compare average fidelity of teleportation obtained using noisy and perfect classical channel with restricted capacity. The most important insight into the intricacies of quantum information theory that we gain is that though entanglement, obviously, is a necessary resource for efficient teleportation it requires a certain threshold amount of classical communication to be more useful than classical communication. Another interesting finding is that the amount of classical communication required to activate entanglement for teleportation purposes depends on the dimension d of the system being teleported but is not monotonic reaching maximum for d = 4.

id: 1305.3449
title: Non-signaling boxes and quantum logics
authors: Tomasz Ignacy Tylec
comments: 27 pages, 1 figure. Updated version contains few more results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3449
abstract: We present the analysis of the mathematical structure that is inherent in non-signalling theories from the point of view of so-called quantum logics. This establishes a new link between quantum information theory and well developed theory of quantum logics. Propositional system of an example of non-signalling theories is derived and its structure is analyzed. In particular we discuss the subtle relation to classical and quantum theories. Finally the origin of discussed example is elucidated from the point of view of mathematical structure.

id: 1305.3579
title: Sensitivity to perturbations and quantum phase transitions
authors: D. A. Wisniacki, A. Roncaglia
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication PRE rapid communication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3579
abstract: The local density of states or its Fourier transform, usually called fidelity amplitude, are important measures of quantum irreversibility due to imperfect evolution. In this Rapid Communication we study both quantities in a paradigmatic many body system, the Dicke Hamiltonian, where a single-mode bosonic field interacts with an ensemble of N two-level atoms. This model exhibits a quantum phase transition in the thermodynamic limit, while for finite instances the system undergoes a transition from quasi-integrability to quantum chaotic. We show that the width of the local density of states clearly points out the imprints of the transition from integrability to chaos but no trace remains of the quantum phase transition. The connection with the decay of the fidelity amplitude is also established.

id: 1305.3591
title: On a Time-Space Operator (and other Non-Selfadjoint Operators) for Observables in QM and QFT
authors: Erasmo Recami, Michel Zamboni-Rached, Ignazio Licata
comments: 30 pages with 2 Figures. This paper, mainly a (new) Review, is to appear as a Chapter in a book ["Quantum Space Time", Nova Science pub., Series Horizons in Physics]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3591
abstract: Aim of this paper is trying to show the possible significance, and usefulness, of various non-selfadjoint operators for suitable Observables in non-relativistic and relativistic quantum mechanics, and in quantum electrodynamics: More specifically, this work starts dealing with: (i) the hermitian (but not selfadjoint) Time operator in non-relativistic quantum mechanics and in quantum electrodynamics; with (ii) idem, with the introduction of Time and Space operators; and with (iii) the problem of the four-position and four-momentum operators, each one with its hermitian and anti-hermitian parts, for relativistic spin-zero particles. Afterwards, other physical applications of non-selfadjoint (and even non-hermitian) operators are briefly discussed. We mention how non-hermitian operators can indeed be used in physics [as it was done, elsewhere, for describing Unstable States]; and some considerations are added on the cases of the nuclear optical potential, of quantum dissipation, and in particular of an approach to the measurement problem in QM in terms of a "chronon". [This chapter is largely based on work developed, along the years, in collaboration with V.S.Olkhovsky, and, in smaller parts, with P.Smrz, with R.H.A.Farias, and with S.P.Maydanyuk]. PACS numbers: 03.65.Ta; 03.65.-w; 03.65.Pm; 03.70.+k; 03.65.Xp; 03.65.Yz; 11.10.St; 11.10.-z; 11.90.+t; 02.00.00; 03.00.00; 24.10.Ht; 03.65.Yz; 21.60.-u; 11.10.Ef; 03.65.Fd; 02.40.Dr; 98.80.Jk. Keywords: time operator, space-time operator, non-selfadjoint operators, non-hermitian operators, bilinear operators, time operator for discrete energy spectra, time-energy uncertainty relations, Klein-Gordon equation, chronon, quantum dissipation, decoherence, nuclear optical model, cosmology, projective relativity.

id: 1305.3592
title: Linear Optical Quantum Computing in a Single Spatial Mode
authors: Peter C. Humphreys, Benjamin J. Metcalf, Justin B. Spring, Merritt Moore, Xian-Min Jin, Marco Barbieri, W. Steven Kolthammer, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Updated to be consistent with the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 150501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3592
abstract: We present a scheme for linear optical quantum computing using time-bin encoded qubits in a single spatial mode. We show methods for single-qubit operations and heralded controlled phase (CPhase) gates, providing a sufficient set of operations for universal quantum computing with the Knill-Laflamme-Milburn scheme. Our scheme is suited to available photonic devices and ideally allows arbitrary numbers of qubits to be encoded in the same spatial mode, demonstrating the potential for time-frequency modes to dramatically increase the quantum information capacity of fixed spatial resources. As a test of our scheme, we demonstrate the first entirely single spatial mode implementation of a two-qubit quantum gate and show its operation with an average fidelity of 0.84+-0.07.

id: 1305.3594
title: Unitary realization of wavefunction collapse
authors: Florin Moldoveanu
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3594
abstract: Recent quantum reconstruction projects demand pure unitary time evolution which seems to contradict the collapse postulate. A natural unitary realization of wavefunction collapse is built using Grothendick group construction for the tensor product commutative monoid. Envariance and quantum Darwinism are key ingredients in the proof.

id: 1305.3609
title: Additivity relations in quantum correlations
authors: Seungho Yang, Hyunseok Jeong, Wonmin Son
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 87, 052114 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3609
abstract: Does the sum of correlations in subsystems constitute the correlation in the total system? Such a concept can be expressed by an additivity relationship of correlations. From a strong subadditivity condition of von Neumann entropy, four different additivity relations in total correlation are derived and quantified. Based upon the classification of the additivity in total correlation, we identify the corresponding additive relationships in entanglement. It is also discussed that similar relationships are satisfied for quantum discord of pure states, but it is not always true for mixed states.

id: 1305.3642
title: Synthesizing Quantum Circuits for Simple Periodic Functions
authors: Omar Gamel, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3642
abstract: Periodic functions are of special importance in quantum computing, particularly in applications of Shor's algorithm. We explore methods of creating circuits for periodic functions to better understand their properties. We introduce a method for constructing the circuit for a simple monoperiodic function, that is one-to-one within a single period, of a given period p. We conjecture that to create a simples periodic function of period p, where p is an n-bit number, one needs at most n Toffoli gates.

id: 1305.3649
title: No-Forcing and No-Matching Theorems for Classical Probability Applied to Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ehtibar N. Dzhafarov, Janne V. Kujala
comments: Foundations of Physics, 44, 248-265 (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3649
abstract: Correlations of spins in a system of entangled particles are inconsistent with Kolmogorov's probability theory (KPT), provided the system is assumed to be non-contextual. In the Alice-Bob EPR paradigm, non-contextuality means that the identity of Alice's spin (i.e., the probability space on which it is defined as a random variable) is determined only by the axis \alphai chosen by Alice, irrespective of Bob's axis \betaj (and vice versa). Here, we study contextual KPT models, with two properties: (1) Alice's and Bob's spins are identified as Aij and Bij, even though their distributions are determined by, respectively, \alphai alone and \betaj alone, in accordance with the no-signaling requirement; and (2) the joint distributions of the spins Aij,Bij across all values of \alphai,\betaj are constrained by fixing distributions of some subsets thereof. Of special interest among these subsets is the set of probabilistic connections, defined as the pairs \left(Aij,Aij'\right) and \left(Bij,Bi'j\right) with \alphai\not=\alphai' and \betaj\not=\betaj' (the non-contextuality assumption is obtained as a special case of connections, with zero probabilities of Aij\not=Aij' and Bij\not=Bi'j). Thus, one can achieve a complete KPT characterization bof the Bell-type inequalities, or Tsirelson's inequalities, by specifying the distributions of probabilistic connections compatible with those and only those spin pairs \left(Aij,Bij\right) that are subject to these inequalities. We show, however, that quantum-mechanical (QM) constraints are special. No-forcing theorem says that if a set of probabilistic connections is not compatible with correlations violating QM, then it is compatible only with the classical-mechanical correlations. No-matching theorem says that there are no subsets of the spin variables Aij,Bij whose distributions can be fixed to be compatible with and only with QM-compliant correlations.

id: 1305.3650
title: Off-axis excitation of hydrogenlike atoms by twisted photons
authors: Andrei Afanasev, Carl E. Carlson, Asmita Mukherjee
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures; Version to appear in Physical Review A. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1304.0115
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033841 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3650
abstract: We show that the twisted photon states, or photon states with large ($> \hbar$) angular momentum projection ($m_\gamma$) in the direction of motion, can photoexcite atomic levels for a hydrogen-like atom that are novel and distinct and are not restricted by $m_\gamma$, when the symmetry axis of the twisted-photon beam does not coincide with the center of the atomic target. Selection rules are given and interesting implications and observables for the above process are pointed out.

id: 1305.3664
title: Quantum Operations: technical or fundamental challenge?
authors: Bogdan Mielnik
comments: 30 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3664
abstract: A class of unitary operations generated by idealized, semiclassical fields is studied. The operations implemented by sharp potential kicks are revisited and the possibility of performing them by softly varying external fields is examined. The possibility of using the ion traps as 'operation factories' transforming quantum states is discussed. The non-perturbative algorithms indicate that the results of abstract $\delta$-pulses of oscillator potentials can become real. Some of them, if empirically achieved, could be essential to examine certain atypical quantum ideas. In particular, simple dynamical manipulations might contribute to the Aharonov-Bohm criticism of the time-energy uncertainty principle, some other, to verify the existence of fundamental precision limits of the position measurements or the reality of `non-commutative geometries'.

id: 1305.3672
title: Restriction on the rank of marginals of bipartite pure states
authors: S.V.M. Satyanarayana
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3672
abstract: Consider a qubit-qutrit ($2 \times 3$) composite state space. Let $C(\{1}{2}I_2, \{1}{3}I_3)$ be a convex set of all possible states of composite system whose marginals are given by $\{1}{2}I_2$ and $\{1}{3}I_3$ in two and three dimensional spaces respectively. We prove that there exists no pure state in $C(\{1}{2}I_2, \{1}{3}I_3)$. Further we generalize this result to an arbitrary $m \times n$ bipartite systems. We prove that for $m < n$, no pure state exists in the convex set $C(\rho_A,\rho_B)$, for an arbitrary $\rho_A$ and rank of $\rho_B >m$.

id: 1305.3724
title: Thermodynamics for Trajectories of a Mass Point
authors: Yoshimasa Kurihara, Khiem Hong Phan, Nhi My Uyen Quach
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Theor. Appl. Phys. (2014) 8:143
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3724
abstract: On the basis of information theory, a new formalism of classical non-relativistic mechanics of a mass point is proposed. The particle trajectories of a general dynamical system defined on an (1+n)-dimensional smooth manifold are treated geometrically as dynamical variables. Statistical mechanics of particle trajectories are constructed in a classical manner. Thermodynamic variables are introduced through a partition function based on a canonical ensemble of trajectories. Within this theoretical framework, classical mechanics can be interpreted as an equilibrium state of statistical mechanics. The relationships between classical and quantum mechanics are discussed from this statistical mechanical viewpoint. The maximum entropy principle is shown to provide a unified view of both classical and quantum mechanics.

id: 1305.3759
title: Riemannian Quantum Circuit
authors: R. V. Ramos, F. V. Mendes
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3759
abstract: Number theory is an abstract mathematical field that has found a fertile environment for development in theoretical physics. In particular, several physical systems were related to the zeros of the Riemann-zeta function. In this work we present the theory of a quantum circuit related to a finite number of zeros of the Riemann-zeta function. The existence of such circuit will permit in the future the solution of some number theory problems through the realization of quantum algorithms based on those zeros.

id: 1305.3762
title: A quantum algorithm for the dihedral hidden subgroup problem based on algorithm SV
authors: Fada Li, Wansu Bao, Xiangqun Fu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3762
abstract: To accelerate the algorithms for the dihedral hidden subgroup problem, we present a new algorithm based on algorithm SV(shortest vector). A subroutine is given to get a transition quantum state by constructing a phase filter function, then the measurement basis are derived based on the technique for solving low density subset problem. Finally, the parity of slope is revealed by the measurements on the transition quantum state. This algorithm takes O(n) quantum space and O(n^2) classical space, which is superior to existing algorithms, for a relatively small n(n<6400),it takes (n^0.5)*(log(max aij))^3 computation time, which is superior to 2^(O(n^0.5)).

id: 1305.3769
title: A reduction from LWE problem to dihedral coset problem
authors: Fada Li, Wansu Bao, Xiangqun Fu, Yuchao Zhang, Tan Li
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3769
abstract: Learning with Errors (LWE) problems are the foundations for numerous applications in lattice-based cryptography and are provably as hard as approximate lattice problems in the worst case. Here we present a reduction from LWE problem to dihedral coset problem(DCP). We present a quantum algorithm to generate the input of the two point problem which hides the solution of LWE. We then give a new reduction from two point problem to dihedral coset problem on D_{{{({n^{13}})}^{n\log n}}}. Our reduction implicate that any algorithm solves DCP in subexponential time would lead a quantum algorithm for LWE.

id: 1305.3781
title: Entangled Mechanical Cat States via Conditional Single Photon Optomechanics
authors: Uzma Akram, Warwick P. Bowen, Gerard J. Milburn
comments: Published version
journal: New Journal of Physics, 15, (2013) 093007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3781
abstract: We study single photon optomechanics conditioned on photon counting events. By selecting only detection events that occur long after a photon pulse arrives at the cavity, the optomechanical interaction time can be increased, allowing a large momentum kick to be applied to the oscillator. We apply this to two optomechanical cavities set up within a Mach-Zhender interferometer driven by a single photon source. The conditional state of the mechanical modes in such a system becomes an entangled cat state for detection times resulting in maximum mechanical amplitude in phase space. Further we study the dynamics induced by a second photon pulse injected into an already conditioned optomechanical cavity, a quarter of a mechanical period after the first photon has been detected. We illustrate how the optomechanical interaction resulting from the second photon can be strongly suppressed allowing conditional optomechanical routing of single photons with single photon control pulses.

id: 1305.3813
title: Phase-space distribution functions for photon propagation in waveguides coupled to a qubit
authors: Oleksandr Chumak, Evgeniy Stolyarov
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3813
abstract: We investigate propagation of few-photon pulses in waveguides coupled to a two-level system by means of the method of distribution functions in coordinate-momentum space that provides a detailed description of photon systems. We find that the distribution function of the transmitted pulse can be negative for the nonclassical input (i.e., single-photon Fock state). This reveals the quasiprobability nature of photon distribution. Analytical expressions for photon densities in the momentum space as well as in the coordinate space are obtained for the mentioned single-photon Gaussian input. We also study evolution of the multimode coherent-state input for an arbitrary photon number. Time-dependent differential equations describing average densities and fluctuations of outgoing photons are derived and solved. Influence of the number of input photons, pulse width, and radiation-atom interaction strength on the statistical properties of the fluctuations is investigated.

id: 1305.3821
title: Categories of Quantum and Classical Channels
authors: Bob Coecke, Chris Heunen, Aleks Kissinger
comments: 28 pages; final version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3821
abstract: We introduce a construction that turns a category of pure state spaces and operators into a category of observable algebras and superoperators. For example, it turns the category of finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces into the category of finite-dimensional C*-algebras and completely positive maps. In particular, the new category contains both quantum and classical channels, providing elegant abstract notions of preparation and measurement. We also consider nonstandard models, that can be used to investigate which notions from algebraic quantum information theory are operationally justifiable.

id: 1305.3867
title: On the robustness of entanglement in analogue gravity systems
authors: David Edward Bruschi, Nicolai Friis, Ivette Fuentes, Silke Weinfurtner
comments: v2: published version, 12 pages, 2 figures, Ivette Fuentes previously published as Ivette Fuentes-Guridi and Ivette Fuentes-Schuller
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 113016 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3867
abstract: We investigate the possibility to generate quantum-correlated quasi-particles utilizing analogue gravity systems. The quantumness of these correlations is a key aspect of analogue gravity effects and their presence allows for a clear separation between classical and quantum analogue gravity effects. However, experiments in analogue systems, such as Bose-Einstein condensates, and shallow water waves, are always conducted at non-ideal conditions, in particular, one is dealing with dispersive media at nonzero temperatures. We analyze the influence of the initial temperature on the entanglement generation in analogue gravity phenomena. We lay out all the necessary steps to calculate the entanglement generated between quasi-particle modes and we analytically derive an upper bound on the maximal temperature at which given modes can still be entangled. We further investigate a mechanism to enhance the quantum correlations. As a particular example we analyze the robustness of the entanglement creation against thermal noise in a sudden quench of an ideally homogeneous Bose-Einstein condensate, taking into account the super-sonic dispersion relations.

id: 1305.3894
title: How many invariant polynomials are needed to decide local unitary equivalence of qubit states?
authors: Tomasz Maciazek, Micha? Oszmaniec, Adam Sawicki
comments: 22 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 092201 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3894
abstract: Given L-qubit states with the fixed spectra of reduced one-qubit density matrices, we find a formula for the minimal number of invariant polynomials needed for solving local unitary (LU) equivalence problem, that is, problem of deciding if two states can be connected by local unitary operations. Interestingly, this number is not the same for every collection of the spectra. Some spectra require less polynomials to solve LU equivalence problem than others. The result is obtained using geometric methods, i.e. by calculating the dimensions of reduced spaces, stemming from the symplectic reduction procedure.

id: 1305.3946
title: Practical long-distance quantum communication using concatenated entanglement swapping
authors: Aeysha Khalique, Wolfgang Tittel, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 88, 022336 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3946
abstract: We construct a theory for long-distance quantum communication based on sharing entanglement through a linear chain of $N$ elementary swapping segments of length~$L=Nl$ where $l$ is the length of each elementary swap setup. Entanglement swapping is achieved by linear optics, photon counting and post-selection, and we include effects due to multi-photon sources, transmission loss and detector inefficiencies and dark counts. Specifically we calculate the resultant four-mode state shared by the two parties at the two ends of the chain, and we derive the two-photon coincidence rate expected for this state and thereby the visibility of this long-range entangled state. The expression is a nested sum with each sum extending from zero to infinite photons, and we solve the case $N=2$ exactly for the ideal case (zero dark counts, unit-efficiency detectors and no transmission loss) and numerically for $N=2$ in the non-ideal case with truncation at $n_\text{max}=3$ photons in each mode. For the general case, we show that the computational complexity for the numerical solution is $n_\text{max}^{12N}$.

id: 1305.3955
title: Quantum Energy Teleportation without Limit of Distance
authors: Masahiro Hotta, Jiro Matsumoto, Go Yusa
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012311 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3955
abstract: Quantum energy teleportation (QET) is, from an operational viewpoint of distant protocol users, the transportation of energy via local operations and classical communication. QET has various links to fundamental research fields, including black hole physics, the quantum theory of Maxwell's demon, and condensed-matter entanglement. There are promising signs that QET will be experimentally verified using the chiral boson fields of quantum Hall edge currents. In this Letter, we prove that, using the vacuum state of a quantum field, the upper bound of the amount of energy teleported by QET is inversely proportional to the transfer distance. This distance bound can be overcome by using squeezed states with local-vacuum regions.

id: 1305.3962
title: Spectroscopy of a Cooper-Pair Box Coupled to a Two-Level System Via Charge and Critical Current
authors: V. Zaretskey, B. Suri, S. Novikov, F. C. Wellstood, B. S. Palmer
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 174522 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3962
abstract: We report on the quadrupling of the transition spectrum of an Al/AlOx/Al Cooper-pair box (CPB) charge qubit in the 4.0-7.3 GHz frequency range. The qubit was coupled to a quasi-lumped element Al superconducting resonator and measured at a temperature of 25 mK. We obtained good matches between the observed spectrum and the spectra calculated from a model Hamiltonian containing two distinct low excitation energy two-level systems (TLS) coupled to the CPB. In our model, each TLS has a charge that tunnels between two sites in a local potential and induces a change in the CPB critical current. By fitting the model to the spectrum, we have extracted microscopic parameters of the fluctuators including the well asymmetry, tunneling rate, and a surprisingly large fractional change (30-40%) in the critical current (12 nA). This large change is consistent with a Josephson junction with a non-uniform tunnel barrier containing a few dominant conduction channels and a TLS that modulates one of them.

id: 1305.3975
title: Coherent State Quantum Key Distribution with Entanglement Witnessing
authors: David S. Simon, Gregg Jaeger, Alexander V. Sergienko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3975
abstract: An entanglement witness approach to quantum coherent state key distribution and a system for its practical implementation are described. In this approach, eavesdropping can be detected by a change in sign of either of two witness functions, an entanglement witness S or an eavesdropping witness W. The effects of loss and eavesdropping on system operation are evaluated as a function of distance. Although the eavesdropping witness W does not directly witness entanglement for the system, its behavior remains related to that of the true entanglement witness S. Furthermore, W is easier to implement experimentally than S. W crosses the axis at a finite distance, in a manner reminiscent of entanglement sudden death. The distance at which this occurs changes measurably when an eavesdropper is present. The distance dependance of the two witnesses due to amplitude reduction and due to increased variance resulting from both ordinary propagation losses and possible eavesdropping activity is provided. Finally, the information content and secure key rate of a continuous variable protocol using this witness approach are given.

id: 1305.3992
title: Exact Abelian and Non-Abelian Geometric Phases
authors: Chopin Soo, Huei-Chen Lin
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures; Proceedings of the 6th. Asia-Pacific Conference & Workshop in Quantum Information Science (Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3992
abstract: The existence of Hopf fibrations S^{2N+1}/S^1 = CP^N and S^{4K+3}/S^3 = HP^K allows us to treat the Hilbert space of generic finite-dimensional quantum systems as the total bundle space with respectively $U(1)$ and $SU(2)$ fibers and complex and quaternionic projective spaces as base manifolds. This alternative method of studying quantum states and their evolution reveals the intimate connection between generic quantum mechanical systems and geometrical objects. The exact Abelian and non-Abelian geometric phases, and more generally the geometrical factors for open paths, and their precise correspondence with geometric Kahler and hyper-Kahler connections will be discussed. Explicit physical examples are used to verify and exemplify the formalism.

id: 1305.4004
title: The Fragility of Quantum Information?
authors: Barbara M. Terhal
comments: Essay on quantum information: no new results. Ten pages, published in Lec. Notes in Comp. Science, Vol. 7505, pp. 47-56 (2012. One reference added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4004
abstract: We address the question whether there is a fundamental reason why quantum information is more fragile than classical information. We show that some answers can be found by considering the existence of quantum memories and their dimensional dependence.

id: 1305.4009
title: Cat state, sub-Planck structure and weak measurement
authors: A. K. Pan, P. K. Panigrahi
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D,67 182(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4009
abstract: Heisenberg-limited and weak measurements are the two intriguing notions, used in recent times for enhancing the sensitivity of measurements in quantum metrology. Using a quantum cat state, endowed with sub-Planck structure, we connect these two novel concepts. It is demonstrated that these two phenomena manifest in complementary regimes, depending upon the degree of overlap between the mesoscopic states constituting the cat state under consideration. In particular, we find that when sub-Planck structure manifests, the imaginary weak value is obscured and vice-versa.

id: 1305.4041
title: Complexity of multidimensional hydrogenic systems
authors: Jesus S. Dehesa, Sheila L¨®pez-Rosa, Pablo S¨¢nchez-Moreno, Rafael J. Y¨¢?ez
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: International Journal of Applied Mathematics and Statistics 26 (2012) 150-162
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4041
abstract: The Cram\'er-Rao, Fisher-Shannon and LMC shape complexity measures have been recently shown to play a relevant role to study the internal disorder of finite many-body systems (e.g., atoms, molecules, nuclei). They highlight amongst the bunch of complexities appeared in the literature by their mathematical simplicity and transparent physical interpretation. They are composed by two spreading measures (variance, Fisher information and Shannon entropies) of the single-particle probability density of the systems. Here we discuss the physico-mathematical knowledge of these two-component complexities for hydrogenic systems with standard ($D = 3$) and non-standard dimensionalities. These systems include not only the hydrogen atom and its isoelectronic series but also a large diversity of quantum systems such as, e.g. exotic atoms, antimatter atoms, some qubits systems and Rydberg atoms, ions and molecules.

id: 1305.4043
title: Information Exchange via Surface Modified Resonance Energy Transfer
authors: Mathias Bostr?m, Clas Persson, Dan Huang, Barry W. Ninham, Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4043
abstract: The theory is presented for resonance interaction between two atoms in an excited configuration: one atom, the "receptor" of information (i.e. energy), adsorbed on a phospholipid surface and the other atom, the "emitter" of information (i.e. energy), a long distance away. The dielectric function for a specific phospholipid membrane is obtained from density functional theory calculations. We present numerical results comparing the range and magnitude of non-specific Casimir-Polder interactions with the much more long-ranged, and highly specific, resonance interaction. A study of the resonance interaction with one or both atoms adsorbed on a phospholipid membrane surface reveals a possibility to have a cross over from attraction to repulsion or from repulsion to attraction at separations between receptor and emitter atoms exceeding several hundred {\AA}ngstr\"oms. The energy transfer and the observed transitions in the sign of the interaction energies near surfaces provide potential new ways to start recognition processes in biological systems.

id: 1305.4088
title: Optical computing with soliton trains in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Florian Pinsker
comments: accepted for publication in International Journal of Modern Physics C
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4088
abstract: Optical computing devices can be implemented based on controlled generation of soliton trains in single and multicomponent Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC). Our concepts utilize the phenomenon that the frequency of soliton trains in BEC can be governed by changing interactions within the atom cloud. We use this property to store numbers in terms of those frequencies for a short time until observation. The properties of soliton trains can be changed in an intended way by other components of BEC occupying comparable states or via phase engineering. We elucidate in which sense such an additional degree of freedom can be regarded as a tool for controlled manipulation of data. Finally the outcome of any manipulation made is read out by observing the signature within the density profile.

id: 1305.4094
title: Evolutionary optimization of an experimental apparatus
authors: I. Geisel, K. Cordes, J. Mahnke, S. J?llenbeck, J. Ostermann, J. Arlt, W. Ertmer, C. Klempt
comments: minor revision
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 214105 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4094
abstract: In recent decades, cold atom experiments have become increasingly complex. While computers control most parameters, optimization is mostly done manually. This is a time-consuming task for a high-dimensional parameter space with unknown correlations. Here we automate this process using a genetic algorithm based on Differential Evolution. We demonstrate that this algorithm optimizes 21 correlated parameters and that it is robust against local maxima and experimental noise. The algorithm is flexible and easy to implement. Thus, the presented scheme can be applied to a wide range of experimental optimization tasks.

id: 1305.4162
title: Super-Resolving Quantum Radar: Coherent-State Sources with Homodyne Detection Suffice to Beat the Diffraction Limit
authors: Kebei Jiang, Hwang Lee, Christopher C. Gerry, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 23 pages, content is identical to published version
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 114, 193102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4162
abstract: There has been much recent interest in quantum metrology for applications to sub-Raleigh ranging and remote sensing such as in quantum radar. For quantum radar, atmospheric absorption and diffraction rapidly degrades any actively transmitted quantum states of light, such as N00N states, so that for this high-loss regime the optimal strategy is to transmit coherent states of light, which suffer no worse loss than the linear Beer's law for classical radar attenuation, and which provide sensitivity at the shot-noise limit in the returned power. We show that coherent radar radiation sources, coupled with a quantum homodyne detection scheme, provide both longitudinal and angular super-resolution much below the Rayleigh diffraction limit, with sensitivity at shot-noise in terms of the detected photon power. Our approach provides a template for the development of a complete super-resolving quantum radar system with currently available technology.

id: 1305.4191
title: Dynamically Disordered Quantum Walk as a Maximal Entanglement Generator
authors: Rafael Vieira, Edgard P. M. Amorim, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures, RevTex4; v2: published version, title changed, new references, 13 pages, 18 figures, RevTex4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 180503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4191
abstract: We show that the entanglement between the internal (spin) and external (position) degrees of freedom of a qubit in a random (dynamically disordered) one-dimensional discrete time quantum random walk (QRW) achieves its maximal possible value asymptotically in the number of steps, outperforming the entanglement attained by using ordered QRW. The disorder is modeled by introducing an extra random aspect to QRW, a classical coin that randomly dictates which quantum coin drives the system's time evolution. We also show that maximal entanglement is achieved independently of the initial state of the walker, study the number of steps the system must move to be within a small fixed neighborhood of its asymptotic limit, and propose two experiments where these ideas can be tested.

id: 1305.4197
title: Quantum Path Interference through Incoherent Motions in Multilevel Quantum Systems
authors: Xin Chen
comments: corrected typos and formulas, and fixed and rewrote the contents (including the abstract) in some sections. I also reorganized different derivations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4197
abstract: Quantum path interferences or resonances in multilevel dissipative quantum systems play an important and intriguing role in the transport processes of nanoscale systems. Many previous minimalistic models used to describe the quantum path interference driven by incoherent fields are based on the approximations including the second order perturbation for the weak coupling limit, the ad-hoc choices of two-time correlation functions and $\it{etc}$. On the other hand, the similar model to study the non-adiabatic molecular electronic excitation have been extensively developed and many efficient quantum molecular dynamics simulation schemes, such as the Ehrenfest scheme, have been proposed. In this paper, I aim to propose an unified model, extend the Ehrenfest scheme to study the interactions of system-light and system-phonon simultaneously and gain insight into and principles of the roles of quantum path interferences in the realistic molecular systems. I discuss how to derive the time-dependent stochastic Schr$\ddot{o}$dinger equation from the Ehrenfest scheme as a foundation to discuss the detailed balance for the weak coupling limit and therefore the quantum correction in the Ehrenfest scheme. Different from the master equation technique, the Ehrenfest scheme doesn't need any specific assumptions about spectral densities and two time correlation functions. With simple open two-level and three-level quantum systems, I show the effect of the quantum path interference on the steady state populations. Currently I only focus on the role of the phonon thermal reservoir. The electromagnetic field (solar light) will be modeled as a thermal reservoir and discussed in detail in the future paper.

id: 1305.4201
title: Homodyne detection as a near-optimum receiver for phase-shift keyed binary communication in the presence of phase diffusion
authors: Stefano Olivares, Simone Cialdi, Fabrizio Castelli, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 050303(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4201
abstract: We address binary optical communication channels based on phase-shift keyed coherent signals in the presence of phase diffusion. We prove theoretically and demonstrate experimentally that a discrimination strategy based on homodyne detection is robust against this kind of noise for any value of the channel energy. Moreover, we find that homodyne receiver beats the performance of Kennedy receiver as the signal energy increases, and achieves the Helstrom bound in the limit of large noise.

id: 1305.4205
title: Quantum Computation with Magnetic Clusters
authors: Daniel D. Dorroh, Serkay Olmez, Jian-Ping Wang
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4205
abstract: We propose a complete, quantitative quantum computing system which satisfies the five DiVincenzo criteria. The model is based on magnetic clusters with uniaxial anisotropy, where standard, two-state qubits are formed utilizing the two lowest-lying states of an anisotropic potential energy. We outline the quantum dynamics required by quantum computing for single qubit structures, and then define a novel measurement scheme in which qubit sates can be measured by sharp changes in current as voltage across the cluster is varied. We then extend the single qubit description to multiple qubit interactions, facilitated specifically by a new entanglement method which propagates the controlled-NOT (C-NOT) quantum gate.

id: 1305.4207
title: Speeding Up Classical and Quantum Adiabatic Processes: Implications for Work Functions and Heat Engine Designs
authors: Jia-wen Deng, Qing-hai Wang, Jiangbin Gong
comments: This is a rough progress report. Manuscripts are being prepared for submission for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4207
abstract: Adiabatic processes are important for studying the dynamics of a time-dependent system. Conventionally, the adiabatic processes can only be achieved by varying the system slowly. We speed up both classical and quantum adiabatic processes by adding control protocols. In classical systems, we work out the control protocols by analyzing the classical adiabatic approximation. In quantum systems, we follow the idea of transitionless driving by Berry [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. Vol.42 365303 (2009)]. Such fast-forward adiabatic processes can be performed at arbitrary fast speed, and in the meanwhile reduce the work fluctuation. In both systems, we use a time-dependent harmonic oscillator model to work out explicitly the work function and the work fluctuation in three types of processes: fast-forward adiabatic processes, adiabatic processes, and non-adiabatic processes. We show the significant reduction on work fluctuation in fast-forward adiabatic process. We further illustrate how the fast-forward process improved the converging rate of the Jarzynski equality between the work function and the free energy. As an application, we show that the fast-forward process not only maximizes the output power but also improve the efficiency of a quantum engine.

id: 1305.4212
title: Experimental Distillation of Quantum Nonlocality
authors: C Zu, D.-L. Deng, P.-Y. Hou, X.-Y. Chang, F. Wang, L.-M. Duan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 050405 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4212
abstract: We report the first experimental demonstration of distillation of quantum nonlocality, confirming the recent theoretical protocol [\textit{Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 120401 (2009)}]. Quantum nonlocality is described by a correlation box with binary inputs and outputs, and the nonlocal boxes are realized through appropriate measurements on polarization entangled photon pairs. We demonstrate that nonlocality is amplified by connecting two nonlocal boxes into a composite one through local operations and four-photon coincidence measurements.

id: 1305.4239
title: X-ray quantum optics with M?ssbauer nuclei embedded in thin film cavities
authors: K. P. Heeg, J. Evers
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043828 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4239
abstract: A promising platform for the emerging field of x-ray quantum optics are M\"ossbauer nuclei embedded in thin film cavities probed by near-resonant x-ray light, as used in a number of recent experiments. Here, we develop a quantum optical framework for the description of experimentally relevant settings involving nuclei embedded in x-ray waveguides. We apply our formalism to two settings of current experimental interest based on the archetype M\"ossbauer isotope 57Fe. For present experimental conditions, we derive compact analytical expressions and show that the alignment of medium magnetization as well as incident and detection polarization enable the engineering advanced quantum optical level schemes. The model encompasses non-linear and quantum effects which could become accessible in future experiments.

id: 1305.4250
title: Bipartite entanglement and hypergraph states
authors: Ri Qu, Juan Wang, Yan-ru Bao, Zong-shang Li, Yi-ping Ma
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1305.0662
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4250
abstract: We investigate some properties of multipartite entanglement of hypergraph states in purely hypergraph theoretical terms. We first introduce an approach for computing the concurrence between two specific qubits of a hypergraph state by using the so-called Hamming weights of several special subhypergraphs of the corresponding hypergraph. Then we quantify and characterize bipartite entanglement between each qubit pair of several special hypergraph states in terms of the concurrence obtained by using the above approach. Our main results include that (i) a graph g has a component with the vertex set {i,j} if and only if the qubit pair labeled by {i,j} of the graph state |g> is entangled; and (ii) each qubit pair of a special hypergraph state is entangled like the generalized W state.

id: 1305.4254
title: Enhanced No-Go Theorem for Quantum Position Verification
authors: Fei Gao, Bin Liu, Qiao-Yan Wen
comments: 19 pages, single column, 3 tables, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4254
abstract: Based on the instantaneous nonlocal quantum computation (INQC), Buhrman et al. proposed an excellent attack strategy to quantum position verification (QPV) protocols in 2011, and showed that, if the colluding adversaries are allowed to previously share unlimited entangled states, it is impossible to design an unconditionally secure QPV protocol in the previous model. Here, trying to overcome this no-go theorem, we find some assumptions in the INQC attack, which are implicit but essential for the success of this attack, and present three different QPV protocols where these assumptions are not satisfied. We show that for the general adversaries, who execute the attack operations at every common time slot or the time when they detect the arrival of the challenge signals from the verifiers, secure QPV is achievable. This implies practically secure QPV can be obtained even if the adversaries is allowed to share unlimited entanglement previously. Here by "practically" we mean that in a successful attack the adversaries need launch a new round of attack on the coming qubits with extremely high frequency so that none of the possible qubits, which may be sent at random time, will be missed. On the other side, using such Superdense INQC (SINQC) attack, the adversaries can still attack the proposed protocols successfully in theory. The particular attack strategies to our protocols are presented respectively. On this basis, we demonstrate the impossibility of secure QPV with looser assumptions, i.e. the enhanced no-go theorem for QPV.

id: 1305.4259
title: Quantum Teleportation of Single Qubit Mixed Information State with Werner-Like State as Resource
authors: Hari Prakash, Vikram Verma
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4259
abstract: In this paper we extend our recent results for quantum teleportation of single qubit pure information state using non-maximally entangled pure state resource [Quantum Inf Process, 11 (2012) 1251] to the case of a general mixed information state and mixed Werner states resource. Fidelity is found dependent on information state in general. We minimize it over all possible information states and maximize it over possible unitary transformations which can be done by the receiver to obtain a value dependent on purity of information state and mixing parameter of Werner states. For pure information state, this value of fidelity is independent of information and for mixed information states it is less than unity even for perfect entangled resource. The latter result is in contrast to the case of pure states.

id: 1305.4269
title: Casimir Friction Between Dense Polarizable Media
authors: Johan S. H?ye, Iver Brevik
comments: 20 pages, latex2e, no figures. To appear in Entropy
journal: Entropy 2013, 15, 3045-3064
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4269
abstract: The present paper - a continuation of our recent series of papers on Casimir friction for a pair of particles at low relative particle velocity - extends the analysis so as to include dense media. The situation becomes in this case more complex due to induced dipolar correlations, both within planes, and between planes. We show that the structure of the problem can be simplified by regarding the two half-planes as a generalized version of a pair of particles. It turns out that macroscopic parameters such as permittivity suffice to describe the friction also in the finite density case. The expression for the friction force per unit surface area becomes mathematically well-defined and finite at finite temperature. We give numerical estimates, and compare them with those obtained earlier by Pendry (1997) and by Volokitin and Persson (2007). We also show in an appendix how the statistical methods that we are using, correspond to the field theoretical methods more commonly in use.

id: 1305.4290
title: Extracting information from a qubit by multiple observers: Toward a theory of sequential state discrimination
authors: Janos Bergou, Edgar Feldman, Mark Hillery
comments: Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 100501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4290
abstract: We discuss sequential unambiguous state-discrimination measurements performed on the same qubit. Alice prepares a qubit in one of two possible states. The qubit is first sent to Bob, who measures it, and then on to Charlie, who also measures it. The object in both cases is to determine which state Alice sent. In an unambiguous state discrimination measurement, we never make a mistake, i.e. misidentify the state, but the measurement may fail, in which case we gain no information about which state was sent. We find that there is a nonzero probability for both Bob and Charlie to identify the state, and we maximize this probability. The probability that Charlie's measurement succeeds depends on how much information about the state Alice sent is left in the qubit after Bob's measurement, and this information can be quantified by the overlap between the two possible states in which Bob's measurement leaves the qubit. This paper is a first step toward developing a theory of nondestructive sequential quantum measurements, which could be useful in quantum communication schemes.

id: 1305.4326
title: Nonlinear Elimination of Spin-Exchange Relaxation of High Magnetic Moments
authors: Or Katz, Mark Dikopoltsev, Or Peleg, Moshe Shuker, Jeff Steinhauer, Nadav Katz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4326
abstract: Relaxation of the Larmor magnetic moment by spin-exchange collisions has been shown to diminish for high alkali densities, resulting from the linear part of the collisional interaction. In contrast, we demonstrate both experimentally and theoretically the elimination of spin-exchange relaxation of high magnetic moments (birefringence) in alkali vapor. This elimination originates from the nonlinear part of the spin-exchange interaction, as a scattering process of the Larmor magnetic moment. We find counter-intuitively that the threshold magnetic field is the same as in the Larmor case, despite the fact that the precession frequency is twice as large.

id: 1305.4336
title: Generation and characterization of resource state for nonlinear cubic phase gate
authors: Mitsuyoshi Yukawa, Kazunori Miyata, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Petr Marek, Radim Filip, Akira Furusawa
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053816 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4336
abstract: Unitary non-Gaussian nonlinearity is one of the key components required for quantum computation and other developing applications of quantum information processing. Sufficient operation of this kind is still not available, but it can be approximatively implemented with help of a specifically engineered resource state constructed from individual photons. We present experimental realization and thorough analysis of such quantum resource state, and confirm that the state does indeed possess properties of a state produced by unitary dynamics driven by cubic nonlinearity.

id: 1305.4346
title: Boson Sampling from Gaussian States
authors: A. P. Lund, A. Laing, S. Rahimi-Keshari, T. Rudolph, J. L O'Brien, T. C. Ralph
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 100502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4346
abstract: We pose a generalized Boson Sampling problem. Strong evidence exists that such a problem becomes intractable on a classical computer as a function of the number of Bosons. We describe a quantum optical processor that can solve this problem efficiently based on Gaussian input states, a linear optical network and non-adaptive photon counting measurements. All the elements required to build such a processor currently exist. The demonstration of such a device would provide the first empirical evidence that quantum computers can indeed outperform classical computers and could lead to applications.

id: 1305.4349
title: Quantum Mechanics in symmetry language
authors: Houri Ziaeepour
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4349
abstract: We consider symmetry as a foundational concept in quantum mechanics and rewrite quantum mechanics and measurement axioms in this description. We argue that issues related to measurements and physical reality of states can be better understood in this view. In particular, the abstract concept of symmetry provides a basis-independent definition for observables. Moreover, we show that the apparent projection/collapse of the state as the final step of measurement or decoherence is the result of breaking of symmetries. This phenomenon is comparable with a phase transition by spontaneous symmetry breaking, and makes the process of decoherence and classicality a natural fate of complex systems consisting of many interacting subsystems. Additionally, we demonstrate that the property of state space as a vector space representing symmetries is more fundamental than being an abstract Hilbert space, and its $L2$ integrability can be obtained from the imposed condition of being a representation of a symmetry group and general properties of probability distributions.

id: 1305.4353
title: Rotation of the noise ellipse for squeezed vacuum light generated via four-wave-mixing
authors: Neil V. Corzo, Quentin Glorieux, Alberto M. Marino, Jeremy B. Clark, Paul D. Lett
comments: 7 pages - 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4353
abstract: We report the generation of a squeezed vacuum state of light whose noise ellipse rotates as a function of the detection frequency. The squeezed state is generated via a four-wave mixing process in a vapor of 85Rb. We observe that rotation varies with experimental parameters such as pump power and laser detunings. We use a theoretical model based on the Heisenberg-Langevin formalism to describe this effect. Our model can be used to investigate the parameter space and to tailor the ellipse rotation in order to obtain an optimum squeezing angle, for example, for coupling to an interferometer whose optimal noise quadrature varies with frequency.

id: 1305.4370
title: New exact solutions of the Dirac equation of a charged particle interacting with an electromagnetic plane wave in a medium
authors: Sandor Varro
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: Laser Physics Letters 10 (2013) 095301 (13pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4370
abstract: Exact solutions are presented of the Dirac equation of a charged particle moving in a classical monochromatic electromagnetic plane wave in a medium of index of refraction n < 1. The found solutions are expressed in terms of new complex trigonometric polynomials, which form a doubly infinite set labeled by two integer quantum numbers. These quantum numbers represent quantized spectra of the energy-momentum components of the charged particle along the polarization vector and along the propagation direction of the applied electromagnetic plane wave field (which is considered as a laser field of arbitrary high intensity, propagating in an underdense plasma). These new solutions may serve as a basis for the description of possible quantum features of mechanisms of acceleration of electrons by high-intensity laser fields.

id: 1305.4393
title: Weak measurement induced super discord can resurrect lost quantumness
authors: Uttam Singh, Arun Kumar Pati
comments: Latex, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4393
abstract: The projective measurement usually destroys the quantum correlation between two subsystems of a composite system, thereby making the measured state useless for any efficient quantum information processing and quantum computation task. The weak measurement acts gently on quantum system and do not force the system state to decohere completely, thus revealing the super quantum discord, which can take value more than that of the normal quantum discord. Remarkably, we prove that the super quantum discord in the post measured state is equal to the difference between the super quantum discord and the normal quantum discord in the original state. Thus, the weak measurement has the ability to resurrect the lost quantumness of any composite quantum state. This suggests a conservation law for the extra quantum correlation in any composite state. The amount of extra quantum correlation which is destroyed by the projective measurement in the original state is equal to the amount of extra quantum correlation captured by the weak measurement in the post-measured state.

id: 1305.4440
title: Realistic cost for the model of coherent computing
authors: Akira SaiToh
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, v2: proof of Proposition 1 modified, v3: major revision, more detailed explanation in the proof
journal: in Proc. TQC 2013 (LIPIcs vol.22), pp.244-253 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4440
abstract: For the model of so-called coherent computing recently proposed by Yamamoto et al. [Y. Yamamoto et al., New Gen. Comput. 30 (2012) 327-355], a theoretical analysis of the success probability is given. Although it was claimed as their prospect that the Ising spin configuration problem would be efficiently solvable in the model, here it is shown that the probability of finding a desired spin configuration decreases exponentially in the number of spins for certain hard instances. The model is thus physically unfeasible for solving the problem within a polynomial cost.

id: 1305.4454
title: Entanglement in the Grover's Search Algorithm
authors: Shantanav Chakraborty, Subhashish Banerjee, Satyabrata Adhikari, Atul Kumar
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4454
abstract: Quantum Algorithms have long captured the imagination of computer scientists and physicists primarily because of the speed up achieved by them over their classical counterparts using principles of quantum mechanics. Entanglement is believed to be the primary phenomena behind this speed up. However their precise role in quantum algorithms is yet unclear. In this article, we explore the nature of entanglement in the Grover's search algorithm. This algorithm enables searching of elements from an unstructured database quadratically faster than the best known classical algorithm. Geometric measure of entanglement has been used to quantify and analyse entanglement across iterations of the algorithm. We reveal how the entanglement varies with increase in the number of qubits and also with the number of marked or solution states. Numerically, it is seen that the behaviour of the maximum value of entanglement is monotonous with the number of qubits. Also, for a given value of the number of qubits, a change in the marked states alters the amount of entanglement. The amount of entanglement in the final state of the algorithm has been shown to depend solely on the nature of the marked states. Explicit analytical expressions are given showing the variation of entanglement with the number of iterations and the global maximum value of entanglement attained across all iterations of the algorithm.

id: 1305.4467
title: Energy uncertainty of the final state of a decay process
authors: Francesco Giacosa
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052131 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4467
abstract: We derive the expression for the energy uncertainty of the final state of a decay of an unstable quantum state prepared at the initial time $t=0$. This expression is function of the time $t$ at which a measurement is performed to determine if the state has decayed and, if yes, in which one of the infinitely many possible final states. For large times the energy spread is, as expected, given by the decay width $\Gamma$ of the initial unstable state. However, if the measurement of the final state is performed at a time $t$ comparable to (or smaller than) the mean lifetime of the state $1/\Gamma$, then the uncertainty on the energy of the final state is much larger than the decay width $\Gamma$. Namely, for short times an uncertainty of the type $1/t$ dominates, while at large times the usual spread $\Gamma$ is recovered. Then, we turn to a generic two-body decay process and describe the energy uncertainty of each one of the two outgoing particles. We apply these formulas to the two-body decays of the neutral and charged pions and to the spontaneous emission process of an excited atom. As a last step, we study a case in which the non-exponential decay is realized ad show that for short times eventual asymmetric terms are enhanced in the spectrum.

id: 1305.4472
title: Test of Genuine Multipartite Nonlocality Without Inequality
authors: Qing Chen, Sixia Yu, Chengjie Zhang, C. H. Lai, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, 1 appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 140404 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4472
abstract: In this letter we propose a set of conditions on the joint probabilities as a test of genuine multipartite nonlocality without inequality. Our test is failed by all non-signaling local models in which even nonlocal correlations among some observables (not all) are allowed as long as these correlations respect the non-signaling principle. A pass of our test by a state therefore indicates that this state cannot be simulated by any non-signaling local models, i.e., the state exhibits genuine multipartite nonlocality. It turns out that all entangled symmetric n-qubit ($n \geq 3$) states pass our test and therefore are n-way nonlocal. Also we construct two Bell-type inequalities from our proposed test whose violations indicate genuine multipartite nonlocal correlations.

id: 1305.4475
title: Experimental estimation of quantum discord for polarization qubit and the use of fidelity to assess quantum correlations
authors: Claudia Benedetti, Alexander P. Shurupov, Matteo G. A. Paris, Giorgio Brida, Marco Genovese
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052136 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4475
abstract: We address the experimental determination of entropic quantum discord for systems made of a pair of polarization qubits. We compare results from full and partial tomography and found that the two determinations are statistically compatible, with partial tomography leading to a smaller value of discord for depolarized states. Despite the fact that our states are well described, in terms of fidelity, by families of depolarized or phase-damped states, their entropic discord may be largely different from that predicted for these classes of states, such that no reliable estimation procedure beyond tomography may be effectively implemented. Our results, together with the lack of an analytic formula for the entropic discord of a generic two-qubit state, demonstrate that the estimation of quantum discord is an intrinsically noisy procedure. Besides, we question the use of fidelity as a figure of merit to assess quantum correlations.

id: 1305.4499
title: Control of decoherence with no control
authors: Jun Jing, Lian-Ao Wu
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, submitted for publication on May 10, 2013
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 2746; DOI:10.1038/srep02746 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4499
abstract: Common philosophy in control theory is the control of disorder by order. It is not exceptional for strategies suppressing quantum decoherence. Here we predict an anomalous quantum phenomenon. Suppression of decoherence can be made via more disordered white noise field, in particular white Poissonian noise. The phenomenon seems to be another anomaly in quantum mechanics, and may offer a new strategy in quantum control practices.

id: 1305.4527
title: Quantum information-geometry of dissipative quantum phase transitions
authors: Leonardo Banchi, Paolo Giorda, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 5+6 pages, 2 figures, presentation improved, new results and references added
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 022102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4527
abstract: A general framework for analyzing the recently discovered phase transitions in the steady state of dissipation-driven open quantum systems is still missing. In order to fill this gap we extend the so-called fidelity approach to quantum phase transitions to open systems whose steady state is a Gaussian Fermionic state. We endow the manifold of correlations matrices of steady-states with a metric tensor g measuring the distinguishability distance between solutions corresponding to different set of control parameters. The phase diagram can be then mapped out in terms of the scaling-behavior of g and connections with the Liouvillean gap and the model correlation functions unveiled. We argue that the fidelity approach, thanks to its differential-geometric and information-theoretic nature, provides novel insights on dissipative quantum critical phenomena as well as a general and powerful strategy to explore them.

id: 1305.4541
title: Security of high-dimensional quantum key distribution protocols using Franson interferometers
authors: Thomas Brougham, Stephen M. Barnett, Kevin T. McCusker, Paul G. Kwiat, Daniel J. Gauthier
comments: 14 pages (single column format)
journal: J. Phys. B, vol 46, 104010 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4541
abstract: Franson interferometers are increasingly being proposed as a means of securing high-dimensional energy-time entanglement-based quantum key distribution (QKD) systems. Heuristic arguments have been proposed that purport to demonstrate the security of these schemes. We show, however, that such systems are vulnerable to attacks that localize the photons to several temporally separate locations. This demonstrates that a single pair of Franson interferometers is not a practical approach to securing high-dimensional energy-time entanglement based QKD. This observations leads us to investigate the security of modified Franson-based-protocols, where Alice and Bob have two or more Franson interferometers. We show that such setups can improve the sensitivity against attacks that localize the photons to multiple temporal locations. While our results do not constituting a full security proof, they do show that a single pair of Franson interferometers is not secure and that multiple such interferometers could be a promising candidate for experimentally realizable high-dimensional QKD.

id: 1305.4577
title: Ground States of Fermionic lattice Hamiltonians with Permutation Symmetry
authors: Christina V. Kraus, Maciej Lewenstein, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 23 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 88, 022335 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4577
abstract: We study the ground states of lattice Hamiltonians that are invariant under permutations, in the limit where the number of lattice sites, N -> \infty. For spin systems, these are product states, a fact that follows directly from the quantum de Finetti theorem. For fermionic systems, however, the problem is very different, since mode operators acting on different sites do not commute, but anti-commute. We construct a family of fermionic states, \cal{F}, from which such ground states can be easily computed. They are characterized by few parameters whose number only depends on M, the number of modes per lattice site. We also give an explicit construction for M=1,2. In the first case, \cal{F} is contained in the set of Gaussian states, whereas in the second it is not. Inspired by that constructions, we build a set of fermionic variational wave functions, and apply it to the Fermi-Hubbard model in two spatial dimensions, obtaining results that go beyond the generalized Hartree-Fock theory.

id: 1305.4586
title: Certifying The Quantumness of A Generalized Coherent Control Scenario
authors: Torsten Scholak, Paul Brumer
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4586
abstract: We consider the role of quantum mechanics in a specific coherent control scenario, designing a "coherent control interferometer" as the essential tool that links coherent control to quantum fundamentals. Building upon this allows us to rigorously display the genuinely quantum nature of a generalized weak-field coherent control scenario (utilizing 1 vs. 2 photon excitation) via a Bell-CHSH test. Specifically, we propose an implementation of "quantum delayed-choice" in a bichromatic alkali atom photoionization experiment. The experimenter can choose between two complementary situations, which are characterized by a random photoelectron spin polarization with particle-like behaviour on the one hand, and by spin controllability and wave-like nature on the other. Because these two choices are conditioned coherently on states of the driving fields, it becomes physically unknowable, prior to measurement, whether there is control over the spin or not.

id: 1305.4591
title: Protecting Information Against Computational Errors and Quantum Erasures via Concatenation
authors: Gilson O. dos Santos, Francisco M. de Assis
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4591
abstract: In this work, we introduce a new concatenation scheme which aims at protecting information against the occurrence of both computational errors and quantum erasures. According to our scheme, the internal code must be a quantum loss-correcting code that does not perform measurements, while the external code must be a quantum error-correcting code. We illustrate the concatenation proposed with an example in which one qubit of information is protected against the occurrence of two erasures and one computational error.

id: 1305.4601
title: Two-photon ladder climbing and transition to autoresonance in a chirped oscillator
authors: Ido Barth, Lazar Friedland
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053420 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4601
abstract: The two-photon ladder climbing (successive two-photon Landau-Zener-type transitions) in a chirped quantum nonlinear oscillator and its classical limit (subharmonic autoresonance) are discussed. An isomorphism between the chirped quantum-mechanical one and two-photon resonances in the system is used in calculating the threshold for the phase-locking transition in both the classical and quantum limits. The theory is tested by solving the Schrodinger equation in the energy basis and illustrated via the Wigner function in phase space.

id: 1305.4619
title: Bohmian quantum trajectories from coherent states
authors: Sanjib Dey, Andreas Fring
comments: 20 pages, 11 figures
journal: Physical Review A 88, 022116 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4619
abstract: We find that real and complex Bohmian quantum trajectories resulting from well-localized Klauder coherent states in the quasi-Poissonian regime possess qualitatively the same type of trajectories as those obtained from a purely classical analysis of the corresponding Hamilton-Jacobi equation. In the complex cases treated the quantum potential results to a constant, such that the agreement is exact. For the real cases we provide conjectures for analytical solutions for the trajectories as well as the corresponding quantum potentials. The overall qualitative behaviour is governed by the Mandel parameter determining the regime in which the wavefunctions evolve as soliton like structures. We demonstrate these features explicitly for the harmonic oscillator and the Poeschl-Teller potential.

id: 1305.4627
title: Restoration of Quantum State in Dephasing Channel
authors: Xinyu Zhao, Samuel R. Hedemann, Ting Yu
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, Typos and inaccuracies are corrected. Presentation is also improved
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022321 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4627
abstract: In this paper, we propose an explicit scheme to fully recover a multiple-qubit state subject to a phase damping noise. We establish the theoretical framework and the operational procedure to restore an unknown initial quantum state for an N-qubit model interacting with either individual baths or a common bath. We give an explicit construction of the random unitary (RU) Kraus decomposition for an N-qubit model interacting with a common bath. We also demonstrate how to use only one unitary reversal operation to restore an arbitrary state with phase damping noise. In principle, the initial state can always be recovered with a success probability of 1. Interestingly, we found that non-RU decomposition can also be used to restore some particular entangled states. This may open a new path to restore a quantum state beyond the standard RU scheme.

id: 1305.4671
title: Not all entangled states violate Leggett's crypto-nonlocality
authors: Cyril Branciard
comments: 3.5 pages. v2: typo corrected. Published version (titled "Bell's local causality, Leggett's crypto-nonlocality and quantum separability are genuinely different concepts") concentrates on clarifying the differences between these 3 notions, rather than on the claims of arXiv:1303.5124v2 (which has since been updated)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042113 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4671
abstract: This note is a reply to M. Navascu\'es' claim that "all entangled states violate Leggett's crypto-nonlocality" [arXiv:1303.5124v2]. I argue that such a conclusion can only be reached if one introduces additional assumptions that further restrict Leggett's notion of "crypto-nonlocality". If a contrario one sticks only to Leggett's original axioms, there exist entangled states whose correlations are always compatible with Leggett's crypto-nonlocality---which is thus a genuinely different concept from quantum separability. I clarify in this note the relation between these two notions, together also with Bell's assumption of local causality.

id: 1305.4672
title: Exploring Quantum Control Landscape Structure
authors: Arun Nanduri, Ashley Donovan, Tak-San Ho, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 27 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4672
abstract: A common goal of quantum control is to maximize a physical observable through the application of a tailored field. The observable value as a function of the field constitutes a quantum control landscape. Previous works have shown, under specified conditions, that the quantum control landscape should be free of suboptimal critical points. This favorable landscape topology is one factor contributing to the efficiency of climbing the landscape. An additional, complementary factor is the landscape \textit{structure}, which constitutes all non-topological features. If the landscape's structure is too complex, then climbs may be forced to take inefficient convoluted routes to finding optimal controls. This paper provides a foundation for understanding control landscape structure by examining the linearity of gradient-based optimization trajectories through the space of control fields. For this assessment, a metric $R\geq 1$ is defined as the ratio of the path length of the optimization trajectory to the Euclidean distance between the initial control field and the resultant optimal control field that takes an observable from the bottom to the top of the landscape. Computational analyses for simple model quantum systems are performed to ascertain the relative abundance of nearly straight control trajectories encountered when optimizing a state-to-state transition probability. The collected results indicate that quantum control landscapes have very simple structural features. The favorable topology and the complementary simple structure of the control landscape provide a basis for understanding the generally observed ease of optimizing a state-to-state transition probability.

id: 1305.4724
title: How fast and robust is the quantum adiabatic passage?
authors: Kazutaka Takahashi
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures; minor changes for v2
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 315304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4724
abstract: We study the assisted adiabatic passage, and equivalently the transitionless quantum driving, as a quantum brachistochrone trajectory. The optimal Hamiltonian for given constraints is constructed from the quantum brachistochrone equation. We discuss how the adiabatic passage is realized as the solution of the equation. The formulation of the quantum brachistochrone is based on the principle of least action. We utilize it to discuss the stability of the adiabatic passage.

id: 1305.4743
title: Renyi entropy of the infinite well potential in momentum space and Dirichlet-like trigonometric functionals
authors: Alexander I. Aptekarev, Jesus S. Dehesa, Pablo S¨¢nchez-Moreno, D.N. Tulyakov
comments: 14 pages
journal: Journal of Mathematical Chemistry 50 (2012) 1079-1090
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4743
abstract: The momentum entropic moments and R\'enyi entropies of a one-dimensional particle in an infinite well potential are found by means of explicit calculations of some Dirichlet-like trigonometric integrals. The associated spreading lengths and quantum uncertainty-like sums are also provided.

id: 1305.4769
title: The phase sensitivity of an SU(1,1) interferometer with homodyne detection
authors: Dong Li, Chun-Hua Yuan, Z. Y. Ou, Weiping Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J Phys 16, 073020 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4769
abstract: We theoretically study the phase sensitivity of the SU(1,1) interferometer with a coherent light together with a squeezed vacuum input case using the method of homodyne. We find that the homodyne detection has better sensitivity than the intensity detection under this input case. For a certain intensity of coherent light (squeezed light) input, the relative phase sensitivity is not always better with increasing the squeezed strength (coherent light strength). The phase sensitivity can reach the Heisenberg limit only under a certain moderate parameter interval, which can be realized with current experiment ability.

id: 1305.4782
title: Gaussian tripartite entanglement out of equilibrium
authors: Antonio A. Valido, Luis A. Correa, Daniel Alonso
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures; accepted
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012309 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4782
abstract: The stationary multipartite entanglement between three interacting harmonic oscillators subjected to decoherence is analyzed in the largely unexplored non-equilibrium strong dissipation regime. We compute the exact asymptotic Gaussian state of the system and elucidate its separability properties, qualitatively assessing the regions of the space of parameters in which fully inseparable states are generated. Interestingly, the sharing structure of bipartite entanglement is seen to degrade as dissipation increases even for very low temperatures, at which the system approaches its ground state. We also find that establishing stationary energy currents across the harmonic chain does not correspond with the build-up of biseparable steady states, which relates instead just to the relative intensity of thermal fluctuations.

id: 1305.4809
title: Are the 'weak measurements' really measurements?
authors: D. Sokolovski
comments: 
journal: Quanta, 2, pp. 50-57 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4809
abstract: Weak measurements can be seen as an attempt at answering the 'Which way?' question without destroying interference between the pathways involved. Unusual mean values obtained in such measurements represent the response of a quantum system to this 'forbidden' question, in which the 'true' composition of virtual pathways is hidden from the observer. Such values indicate a failure of a measurement where the uncertainty principle says it must fail, rather than provide an additional insight into physical reality.

id: 1305.4822
title: Solvable model of quantum phase transitions and the symbolic-manipulation-based study of its multiply degenerate exceptional points and of their unfolding
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 19 pp, 5 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. (NY) 336 (2013), pp. 98-111
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4822
abstract: The practical use of non-Hermitian (i.e., typically, PT-symmetric) phenomenological quantum Hamiltonians is discussed as requiring an explicit reconstruction of the {\em ad hoc} Hilbert-space metrics which would render the time-evolution unitary. Just the N-dimensional matrix toy models Hamiltonians are considered, therefore. For them, the matrix elements of alternative metrics are constructed via solution of a coupled set of polynomial equations, using the computer-assisted symbolic manipulations for the purpose. The feasibility and some consequences of such a model-construction strategy are illustrated via a discrete square well model endowed with multi-parametric close-to-the-boundary real bidiagonal-matrix interaction. The degenerate exceptional points marking the phase transitions are then studied numerically. A way towards classification of their unfoldings in topologically non-equivalent dynamical scenarios is outlined.

id: 1305.4844
title: From Josephson junction metamaterials to tunable pseudo-cavities
authors: D. Zueco, C. Fern¨¢ndez-Juez, J. Yago, U. Naether, B. Peropadre, J. J. Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, J. J. Mazo
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, to appear in Supercond. Sci. Technol
journal: Supercond. Sci. Technol. 26 (2013) 074006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4844
abstract: The scattering through a Josephson junction interrupting a superconducting line is revisited including power leakage. We discuss also how to make tunable and broadband resonant mirrors by concatenating junctions. As an application, we show how to construct cavities using these mirrors, thus connecting two research fields: JJ quantum metamaterials and coupled cavity arrays. We finish by discussing the first non-linear corrections to the scattering and their measurable effects.

id: 1305.4845
title: One Component Dynamical Equation and Noise Induced Adiabaticity
authors: Jun Jing, Lian-Ao Wu, Ting Yu, J. Q. You, Zhao-Ming Wang, Lluc Garcia
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032110 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4845
abstract: The adiabatic theorem addresses the dynamics of a target instantaneous eigenstate of a time-dependent Hamiltonian. We use a Feshbach P-Q partitioning technique to derive a closed one-component integro-differential equation. The resultant equation properly traces the footprint of the target eigenstate. The physical significance of the derived dynamical equation is illustrated by both general analysis and concrete examples. Surprisingly, we find an anomalous phenomenon showing that a dephasing white noise can enhance and even induce adiabaticity. This new phenomenon may naturally occur in many physical systems. We also show that white noises can also shorten the total duration of dynamic processes such as adiabatic quantum computing.

id: 1305.4904
title: Classical signature of quantum annealing
authors: John A. Smolin, Graeme Smith
comments: 8 pages, 3 pdf figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4904
abstract: A pair of recent articles concluded that the D-Wave One machine actually operates in the quantum regime, rather than performing some classical evolution. Here we give a classical model that leads to the same behaviors used in those works to infer quantum effects. Thus, the evidence presented does not demonstrate the presence of quantum effects.

id: 1305.4910
title: Model of quantum measurement and thermodynamical cost of accuracy and stability of information processing
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4910
abstract: The quantum measurement problem is revisited and discussed in terms of a new solvable measurement model which basic ingredient is the quantum model of a controlled single-bit memory. The structure of this model involving strongly coupled spin and quantum harmonic oscillator allows to define stable pointer states as well-separated Gaussian states of the quantum oscillator and analyze the transition from quantum to classical regime. The relations between accuracy of measurement, stability of pointer states, effective temperature of joint thermal and quantum noise and minimal work needed to perform the bit-flip are derived. They differ from those based on the Landauer principle and are used to analyze thermodynamic efficiency of quantum Szilard engine and imply more realistic estimations of minimal amount of work needed to perform long computations.

id: 1305.4967
title: Generating shortcuts to adiabaticity in quantum and classical dynamics
authors: Christopher Jarzynski
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4967
abstract: Transitionless quantum driving achieves adiabatic evolution in a hurry, using a counter-diabatic Hamiltonian to stifle non-adiabatic transitions. Here this strategy is cast in terms of a generator of adiabatic transport, leading to a classical analogue: dissipationless classical driving. For the single-particle piston, this approach yields simple and exact expressions for both the classical and quantal counter-diabatic terms. These results are further generalized to even-power-law potentials in one degree of freedom.

id: 1305.5039
title: Quasienergies and dynamics of superconducting qubit in time-modulated field
authors: Gor A. Abovyan, Gagik Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033811 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5039
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of a superconducting qubit and the phenomenon of multiorder Rabi oscillations in the presence of a time-modulated external field. Such a field is also presented as a bichromatic field consisting of two spectral components, which are symmetrically detuned from the qubit resonance frequency. This approach leads to obtaining qualitative quantum effects beyond those for the case of monochromatic excitation of qubits. We calculate Floquet states and quasienergies of the composite system "superconducting qubit plus time-modulated field" for various resonant regimes. We analyze the dependence of quasienergies from the amplitude of an external field, demonstrating the zeros of difference between quasienergies. We show that, as a rule, populations of qubit states exhibit aperiodic oscillations, but we demonstrate the specific important regimes in which dynamics of populations becomes periodically regular.

id: 1305.5056
title: Comparison of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in lambda, cascade and vee three-level systems
authors: Surajit Sen, Tushar Kanti Dey, Mihir Ranjan Nath, Gautam Gangopadhyay
comments: To appear in `Journal of Modern Optics'
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5056
abstract: We discuss the Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) in lambda, cascade and vee type three-level systems where the Hamiltonian and the Lindblad term of each configuration are expressed in the $SU(3)$ representation. At steady state, the Optical Bloch Equations of each configuration are solved to obtain the dispersion and absorption profiles of the probe field along with their group velocities. When the EIT condition is achieved at resonance, the population oscillation shows which of the bare states are contributing to form the dark state. Our study reveals that the dark state for the lambda and cascade system effectively coincides with the lowest bare state of that system, while for the vee system, it is a maximally superposed state of the middle and upper bare states.

id: 1305.5070
title: Probing of quantum dissipative chaos by purity
authors: A. R. Shahinyan, Lock Yue Chew, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5070
abstract: In this paper, the purity of quantum states is applied to probe chaotic dissipative dynamics. To achieve this goal, a comparative analysis of regular and chaotic regimes of nonlinear dissipative oscillator (NDO) are performed on the base of excitation number and the purity of oscillatory states. While the chaotic regime is identified in our semiclassical approach by means of strange attractors in Poincar\'e section and with the Lyapunov exponent, the state in the quantum regime is treated via the Wigner function. Specifically, interesting quantum purity effects that accompany the chaotic dynamics are elucidated in this paper for NDO system driven by either: (i) a time-modulated field, or (ii) a sequence of pulses with Gaussian time-dependent envelopes.

id: 1305.5081
title: The quest for absolute zero in presence of external noise
authors: E. Torrontegui, R. Kosloff
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5081
abstract: A reciprocating quantum refrigerator is analyzed with the intention to study the limitations imposed by external noise. In particular we focus on the behavior of the refrigerator when it approaches the absolute zero. The cooling cycle is based on the Otto cycle with a working medium constituted by an ensemble of non interacting harmonic oscillators. The compression and expansion segments are generated by changing an external parameter in the Hamiltonian. In this case the force constant of the harmonic oscillators $m \omega^2$ is modified from an initial to a final value. As a result, the kinetic and potential energy of the system do not commute causing frictional losses. By proper choice of scheduling function $\omega(t)$ frictionless solutions can be obtained in the noiseless case. We examine the performance of a refrigerator subject to noise. By expanding from the adiabatic limit we find that the external noise, gaussian phase and amplitude noises, reduce the amount of heat that can be extracted but nevertheless the zero temperature can be approached.

id: 1305.5095
title: Devil's crevasse and macroscopic entanglement in two-component Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Tim Byrnes
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023609 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5095
abstract: Spin coherent states are the matter equivalent of optical coherent states, where a large number of two component particles form a macroscopic state displaying quantum coherence. Here we give a detailed study of entanglement generated between two spin-1/2 BECs due to an Sz1 Sz2 interaction. The states that are generated show a remarkably rich structure showing fractal characteristics. In the limit of large particle number N, the entanglement shows a strong dependence upon whether the entangling gate times are a rational or irrational multiple of pi/4. We discuss the robustness of various states under decoherence and show that despite the large number of particles in a typical BEC, entanglement on a macroscopic scale should be observable as long as the gate times are less than hbar/J sqrt[N], where J is the effective BEC-BEC coupling energy. Such states are anticipated to be useful for various quantum information applications such as quantum teleportation and quantum algorithms.

id: 1305.5119
title: Picturing wavepacket reduction
authors: Arthur Jabs
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, small improvements at many places
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5119
abstract: A coherent picture of the wavepacket-reduction process is proposed which is formulated in the framework of a deterministic and realist interpretation where the concepts of knowledge or information and of point particles do not appear. It is shown how the picture accounts for the experiments on interaction-free and delayed-choice measurements and those on interference with partial absorption.

id: 1305.5201
title: Action principle for continuous quantum measurement
authors: A. Chantasri, J. Dressel, A. N. Jordan
comments: Published version. 8 pages, 3 figures, movies available at this http URL and this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042110 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5201
abstract: We present a stochastic path integral formalism for continuous quantum measurement that enables the analysis of rare events using action methods. By doubling the quantum state space to a canonical phase space, we can write the joint probability density function of measurement outcomes and quantum state trajectories as a phase space path integral. Extremizing this action produces the most-likely paths with boundary conditions defined by preselected and postselected states as solutions to a set of ordinary differential equations. As an application, we analyze continuous qubit measurement in detail and examine the structure of a quantum jump in the Zeno measurement regime.

id: 1305.5207
title: Quantum jump approach for work and dissipation in a two-level system
authors: F. W. J. Hekking, J. P. Pekola
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5207
abstract: We apply the quantum jump approach to address the statistics of work in a driven two-level system coupled to a heat bath. We demonstrate how this question can be analyzed by counting photons absorbed and emitted by the environment in repeated experiments. We find that the common non-equilibrium fluctuation relations are satisfied identically. The usual fluctuation-dissipation theorem for linear response applies for weak dissipation and/or weak drive. We point out qualitative differences between the classical and quantum regimes.

id: 1305.5242
title: Quantum Logical Structures For Identical Particles
authors: Federico Holik, Decio Krause, Ignacio G¨®mez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5242
abstract: In this work we discuss logical structures related to indistinguishable particles. Most of the framework used to develop these structures was presented in [17, 28] and in [20, 14, 15, 16]. We use these structures and constructions to discuss possible ontologies for identical parti-cles. In other words, we use these structures in order to characterize the logical structure of quantum systems for the case of indistinguishable particles, and draw possible philosoph-ical implications. We also review some proposals available in the literature which may be considered within the framework of the quantum logical tradition regarding the problem of indistinguishability. Besides these discussions and constructions, we advance novel technical results, namely, a lattice theoretical structure for identical particles for the finite dimensional case. This kind of approach was not present in the scarcely literature of quantum logic and indistinguishable particles.

id: 1305.5272
title: Euler & Lagrange versus Heisenberg & Schroedinger: Dynamical Pictures in Classical and Quantum Mechanics
authors: M. Hossein Partovi
comments: 5 pages, submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5272
abstract: Using quantum-classical analogies, we find that dynamical pictures of quantum mechanics have precise counterparts in classical mechanics. In particular, the Eulerian and Lagrangian descriptions of fluid dynamics in classical mechanics are the analogs of the Schroedinger and Heisenberg pictures in quantum mechanics, respectively. Similarities between classical and quantum dynamical pictures are explored within the framework of the Koopman-von Neumann formalism. These allow for a natural definition of various dynamical pictures in classical mechanics as well as the application of classical concepts to quantum dynamics. As an illustration, we use the interaction picture to find the classical evolution of an ensemble of particles of equal initial momenta and arbitrary configuration density under the action of a constant force in one dimension. As a second example, we discuss the extension of the ideas of sensitivity to initial conditions and chaos in classical mechanics to quantum mechanics.

id: 1305.5278
title: The second laws of quantum thermodynamics
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Micha? Horodecki, Nelly Huei Ying Ng, Jonathan Oppenheim, Stephanie Wehner
comments: v3: 39 pages, 2 figures. Substantial expansion of the previous text, conditions in terms of generalised alpha free energies, addition on discussion about the role of zeroeth and first laws of thermodynamics, addition of two new figures
journal: PNAS 112, 3275 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5278
abstract: The second law of thermodynamics tells us which state transformations are so statistically unlikely that they are effectively forbidden. Its original formulation, due to Clausius, states that "Heat can never pass from a colder to a warmer body without some other change, connected therewith, occurring at the same time". The second law applies to systems composed of many particles interacting; however, we are seeing that one can make sense of thermodynamics in the regime where we only have a small number of particles interacting with a heat bath. Is there a second law of thermodynamics in this regime? Here, we find that for processes which are cyclic or very close to cyclic, the second law for microscopic systems takes on a very di?erent form than it does at the macroscopic scale, imposing not just one constraint on what state transformations are possible, but an entire family of constraints. In particular, we find a family of free energies which generalise the traditional one, and show that they can never increase. We further find that there are three regimes which determine which family of second laws govern state transitions, depending on how cyclic the process is. In one regime one can cause an apparent violation of the usual second law, through a process of embezzling work from a large system which remains arbitrarily close to its original state. These second laws are not only relevant for small systems, but also apply to individual macroscopic systems interacting via long-range interactions, which only satisfy the ordinary second law on average. By making precise the definition of thermal operations, the laws of thermodynamics take on a simple form with the first law defining the class of thermal operations, the zeroeth law emerging as a unique condition ensuring the theory is nontrivial, and the remaining laws being a monotonicity property of our generalised free energies.

id: 1305.5291
title: Broadband infrared and Raman probes of excited-state vibrational molecular dynamics; Simulation protocols based on loop diagram
authors: Konstantin E. Dorfman, Benjamin P. Fingerhut, Shaul Mukamel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5291
abstract: Vibrational motions in electronically excited states can be observed by either time and frequency resolved infrared absorption or by off resonant stimulated Raman techniques. Multipoint correlation function expressions are derived for both signals. Three representations for the signal which suggest different simulation protocols are developed. These are based on the forward and the backward propagation of the wavefunction, sum over state expansion using an effective vibration Hamiltonian and a semiclassical treatment of a bath. We show that the effective temporal ($\Delta t$) and spectral ($\Delta\omega$) resolution of the techniques is not controlled solely by experimental knobs but also depends on the system dynamics being probed. The Fourier uncertainty $\Delta\omega\Delta t>1$ is never violated.

id: 1305.5322
title: Non-classical features of Polarization Quasi-Probability Distribution
authors: M.V.Chekhova, F.Ya.Khalili
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5322
abstract: Polarization quasi-probability distribution (PQPD) is defined in the Stokes space, and it enables the calculation of mean values and higher-order moments for polarization observables using simple algebraic averaging. It can be reconstructed with the help of polarization quantum tomography and provides a full description of the polarization properties of quantum states of light. We show here that, due to its definition in terms of the discrete-valued Stokes operators, polarization quasi-probability distribution has singularities and takes negative values at integer values of the Stokes observables. However, in experiments with `bright' many-photon states, the photon-number resolution is typically smeared due to the technical limitations of contemporary photodetectors. This results in a PQPD that is positive and regular even for such strongly nonclassical states as single-photon seeded squeezed vacuum. This problem can be solved by `highlighting' the quantum state, that is, by adding a strong coherent beam into the orthogonal polarization mode. This procedure bridges polarization quantum tomography with the Wigner-function tomography, while preserving the main advantage of the first one, namely, immunity to the common phase fluctuations in the light path. Thus, it provides a convenient method for the verification of bright nonclassical states of light, such as squeezed Fock states.

id: 1305.5334
title: Rigorous bounds for Renyi entropies of spherically symmetric potentials
authors: Pablo S¨¢nchez-Moreno, Steeve Zozor, Jesus S. Dehesa
comments: 8 pages
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 1305 (2011) 192-199
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5334
abstract: The R\'enyi and Shannon entropies are information-theoretic measures which have enabled to formulate the position-momentum uncertainty principle in a much more adequate and stringent way than the (variance-based) Heisenberg-like relation. Moreover, they are closely related to various energetic density-functionals of quantum systems. Here we find sharp upper bounds to these quantities in terms of the second order moment $\langle r^2\rangle$ for general spherically symmetric potentials, which substantially improve previous results of this type, by means of the R\'enyi maximization procedure with a covariance constraint due to Costa, Hero and Vignat \cite{CosHer03}. The contributions to these bounds coming from the radial and angular parts of the physical wavefunctions are explicitly given.

id: 1305.5350
title: Optimal sub-Poissonian light generation from twin beams by photon-number resolving detectors
authors: Marco Lamperti, Alessia Allevi, Maria Bondani, Radek Machulka, Vaclav Michalek, Ondrej Haderka, Jan Perina Jr
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5350
abstract: We generate nonclassical conditional states by exploiting the quantum correlations of multi-mode twin-beam states endowed with a sizeable number of photons. A strong relation between the sub-shot-noise correlations exhibited by twin beams and the sub-Poissonian character of the conditional states is experimentally revealed. It determines optimal conditions for sub-Poissonian light generation.

id: 1305.5384
title: Can observed randomness be certified to be fully intrinsic?
authors: Chirag Dhara, Gonzalo de la Torre, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 4 pages + appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 100402 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5384
abstract: Randomness comes in two qualitatively different forms. Apparent randomness can result both from ignorance or lack of control of degrees of freedom in the system. In contrast, intrinsic randomness should not be ascribable to any such cause. While classical systems only possess the first kind of randomness, quantum systems are believed to exhibit some intrinsic randomness. In general, any observed random process includes both forms of randomness. In this work, we provide quantum processes in which all the observed randomness is fully intrinsic. These results are derived under minimal assumptions: the validity of the no-signalling principle and an arbitrary (but not absolute) lack of freedom of choice. The observed randomness tends to a perfect random bit when increasing the number of parties, thus defining an explicit process attaining full randomness amplification.

id: 1305.5458
title: Using shortcut to adiabatic passage for the ultrafast quantum state transfer in cavity QED system
authors: Mei Lu, Li-Tuo Shen, Yan Xia, Jie Song
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5458
abstract: We propose an alternative scheme to implement the quantum state transfer between two three-level atoms based on the invariant-based inverse engineering in cavity quantum electronic dynamics (QED) system. The quantum information can be ultrafast transferred between the atoms by taking advantage of the cavity field as a medium for exchanging quantum information speedily. Through designing the time-dependent laser pulse and atom-cavity coupling, we send the atoms through the cavity with a short time interval experiencing the two processes of the invariant dynamics between each atom and the cavity field simultaneously. Numerical simulation shows that the target state can be ultrafast populated with a high fidelity even when considering the atomic spontaneous emission and the photon leakage out of the cavity field. We also redesign a reasonable Gaussian-type wave form in the atom-cavity coupling for the realistic experiment operation.

id: 1305.5503
title: Two different physical interpretations of Schroedinger equation
authors: Milos V. Lokajicek, Vojtech Kundrat, Jiri Prochazka
comments: 11 pages; most results and arguments have been omproved and put more precisly
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5503
abstract: The assumptions added by Bohr and concerning the Hilbert space (formed by all solutions of Schroedinger equation) changed fundamentally the original physical interpretation of these solutions proposed earlier by Schroedinger. This new alternative was refused by Einstein on the basis of the EPR Gedankenexperiment, but accepted fully for microscopic reality by scientific community. Both the quantum alternatives were discussed, however, again later. Bell tried to find a possibility how to decide between them; he generalized Einstein's Gedankenexperiment assuming that also spins of two detected particles would be measured. He derived then some inequality for a special combination of four coincidence probabilities, and it was commonly assumed that his inequality held for the original Schroedinger interpretation but not in Bohr's Copenhagen quantum mechanics; without any actual proof having been given. Corresponding experiments were proposed and finished in 1982. The violation of Bell's inequality was then interpreted as decisive victory of Bohr's theory. However, it will be shown that Bell's inequality has been interpreted mistakenly. It has been based always on some assumption that does not hold in any probabilistic theory (i.e., in the given spin experiment) but only in deterministic classical theory. There is not any argument for preferring the Copenhagen quantum mechanics and against Einstein's critical standpoint. Some other consequences will be mentioned, too.

id: 1305.5525
title: Time in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Curt A. Moyer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5525
abstract: The failure of conventional quantum theory to recognize time as an observable and to admit time operators is addressed. Instead of focusing on the existence of a time operator for a given Hamiltonian, we emphasize the role of the Hamiltonian as the generator of translations in time to construct time states. Taken together, these states constitute what we call a timeline, or quantum history, that is adequate for the representation of any physical state of the system. Such timelines appear to exist even for the semi-bounded and discrete Hamiltonian systems ruled out by Pauli's theorem. However, the step from a timeline to a valid time operator requires additional assumptions that are not always met. Still, this approach illuminates the crucial issue surrounding the construction of time operators, and establishes quantum histories as legitimate alternatives to the familiar coordinate and momentum bases of standard quantum theory.

id: 1305.5528
title: Floating Point Representations in Quantum Circuit Synthesis
authors: Nathan Wiebe, Vadym Kliuchnikov
comments: Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5528
abstract: We provide a non-deterministic quantum protocol that approximates the single qubit rotations R_x(2a^2 b^2)$ using R_x(2a) and R_x(2b) and a constant number of Clifford and T operations. We then use this method to construct a "floating point" implementation of a small rotation wherein we use the aforementioned method to construct the exponent part of the rotation and also to combine it with a mantissa. This causes the cost of the synthesis to depend more strongly on the relative (rather than absolute) precision required. We analyze the mean and variance of the \Tcount required to use our techniques and provide new lower bounds for the T-count for ancilla free synthesis of small single-qubit axial rotations. We further show that our techniques can use ancillas to beat these lower bounds with high probability. We also discuss the T-depth of our method and see that the vast majority of the cost of the resultant circuits can be shifted to parallel computation paths.

id: 1305.5529
title: Comment on "Two Fundamental Experimental Tests of Nonclassicality with Qutrits"
authors: Radek Lapkiewicz, Peizhe Li, Christoph Schaeff, Nathan K. Langford, Sven Ramelow, Marcin Wiesniak, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5529
abstract: In a recent paper [arXiv:1301.2887] Ahrens et al. claim that our "(...) experiment on qutrits does not test Klyachko et al.'s inequality, but an inequality with extra correlations" and that the "(...) experiment cannot be considered a proper test of a noncontextuality inequality, since the same observable is measured with different setups in different contexts". We disagree with these claims. In this note we briefly re-state how our test of the non-contextuality inequality was constructed. We explain how we keep the context of measurements when switching between different terms of the tested inequality, and we argue that we did in fact test the Klyachko, Can, Binicioglu and Shumovsky inequality. In doing so, we also clarify why our experiment is indeed a proper test of noncontextual realism.

id: 1305.5555
title: Ramp dynamics of phonons in an ion trap: entanglement generation and cooling
authors: T. Dutta, M. Mukherjee, K. Sengupta
comments: v2, final version accepted for publication in PHys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 170406 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5555
abstract: We show that the ramp dynamics of phonons in an one-dimensional ion trap can be used for both generating multi-particle entangled states and motional state cooling of a string of trapped ions. We study such ramp dynamics using an effective Bose-Hubbard model which describes these phonons at low energies and show that specific protocols, involving site-specific dynamical tuning of the on-site potential of the model, can be used to generate entangled states and to achieve motional state cooling without involving electronic states of the ions. We compare and contrast our schemes for these to the earlier suggested ones and discuss specific experiments to realize the suggested protocols.

id: 1305.5591
title: Lower bounds to the spectral gap of Davies generators
authors: Kristan Temme
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 54.12 (2013): 122110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5591
abstract: We construct lower bounds to the spectral gap of a family of Lindblad generators known as Davies maps. These maps describe the thermalization of quantum systems weakly coupled to a heat bath. The steady state of these systems is given by the Gibbs distribution with respect to the system Hamiltonian. The bounds can be evaluated explicitly, when the eigenbasis and the spectrum of the Hamiltonian is known. A crucial assumption is that the spectrum of the Hamiltonian is non-degenerate. Furthermore, we provide a counterexample to the conjecture, that the convergence rate is always determined by the gap of the associated Pauli master equation. We conclude, that the full dynamics of the Lindblad generator has to be considered. Finally, we present several physical example systems for which the bound to the spectral gap is evaluated.

id: 1305.5600
title: Enhanced Schwinger's pair production in many-center systems
authors: Fran?ois Fillion-Gourdeau, Emmanuel Lorin, Andr¨¦ D. Bandrauk
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 175002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5600
abstract: Electron-positron pair production is considered for many-center systems with multiple bare nuclei immersed in a constant electric field. It is shown that there are two distinct regimes where the pair production rate is enhanced. At small interatomic distance, the effective charge of the nuclei approaches the critical charge where the ground state dives into the negative continuum. This facilitates the transition from the negative to the positive energy states, which in turns, increases the pair production rate. At larger atomic distance, the enhancement is due to the crossing of resonances and the pair production proceeds by the Resonantly Enhanced Pair Production (REPP) mechanism. These processes are studied within a simple one-dimensional model. A numerical method is developed to evaluate the transmission coefficient in relativistic quantum mechanics, which is required in the calculation of the pair production rate. The latter is evaluated for systems with many (up to five) nuclei. It is shown that the production rate for many-center systems can reach a few orders of magnitude above Schwinger's tunnelling result in a static field.

id: 1305.5640
title: On the post-quantum security of encrypted key exchange protocols
authors: Li Yang, Rui-Rui Zhou
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5640
abstract: We investigate the post-quantum security of the encrypted key exchange(EKE) protocols based on some basic physical parameters of ion-trap quantum computer, and show that the EKE protocol with a 40-bit password will be secure against a quantum adversary with several ion-trap quantum computers. We present a password encrypted no-key protocol to resist middle-man attack, and prove that it is also with the post-quantum security. The analysis presented here is probably of general meaning for the security evaluation of various hybrid cryptosystems.

id: 1305.5649
title: Optimal strategies for estimating the average fidelity of quantum gates
authors: Daniel M. Reich, Giulia Gualdi, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 200401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5649
abstract: We show that the minimum experimental effort to characterize the proper functioning of a quantum device scales as 2^n for n qubits and requires classical computational resources ~ n^2 2^{3n}. This represents an exponential reduction compared to the best currently available protocol, Monte Carlo characterization. The reduction comes at the price of either having to prepare entangled input states or obtaining bounds rather than the average fidelity itself. It is achieved by applying Monte Carlo sampling to so-called two-designs or two classical fidelities. For the specific case of Clifford gates, the original version of Monte Carlo characterization based on the channel-state isomorphism remains an optimal choice. We provide a classification of the available efficient strategies for device characterization in terms of the number of required experimental settings, average number of actual measurements and classical computational resources.

id: 1305.5657
title: Performance and Error Analysis of Knill's Postselection Scheme in a Two-Dimensional Architecture
authors: Ching-Yi Lai, Gerardo Paz, Martin Suchara, Todd A. Brun
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures, and 3 tables
journal: Quant. Inf. and Comp., vol. 14, No. 9& 10, pp. 807-822, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5657
abstract: Knill demonstrated a fault-tolerant quantum computation scheme based on concatenated error-detecting codes and postselection with a simulated error threshold of 3% over the depolarizing channel. %We design a two-dimensional architecture for fault-tolerant quantum computation based on Knill's postselection scheme. We show how to use Knill's postselection scheme in a practical two-dimensional quantum architecture that we designed with the goal to optimize the error correction properties, while satisfying important architectural constraints. In our 2D architecture, one logical qubit is embedded in a tile consisting of $5\times 5$ physical qubits. The movement of these qubits is modeled as noisy SWAP gates and the only physical operations that are allowed are local one- and two-qubit gates. We evaluate the practical properties of our design, such as its error threshold, and compare it to the concatenated Bacon-Shor code and the concatenated Steane code. Assuming that all gates have the same error rates, we obtain a threshold of $3.06\times 10^{-4}$ in a local adversarial stochastic noise model, which is the highest known error threshold for concatenated codes in 2D. We also present a Monte Carlo simulation of the 2D architecture with depolarizing noise and we calculate a pseudo-threshold of about 0.1%. With memory error rates one-tenth of the worst gate error rates, the threshold for the adversarial noise model, and the pseudo-threshold over depolarizing noise, are $4.06\times 10^{-4}$ and 0.2%, respectively. In a hypothetical technology where memory error rates are negligible, these thresholds can be further increased by shrinking the tiles into a $4\times 4$ layout.

id: 1305.5708
title: Quantum and classical characterization of single/few photon detectors
authors: M. G. Mingolla, F. Piacentini, A. Avella, M. Gramegna, L. Lolli, A. Meda, I. Ruo Berchera, E. Taralli, P. Traina, M. Rajteri, G. Brida, I. P. Degiovanni, M. Genovese
comments: Quantum Matter in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5708
abstract: This paper's purpose is to review the results recently obtained in the Quantum Optics labs of the National Institute of Metrological Research (INRIM) in the field of single- and few-photon detectors calibration, from both the classical and quantum viewpoint. In the first part of the paper is presented the calibration of a single-photon detector with absolute methods, while in the second part we focus on photon-number-resolving detectors, discussing both the classical and quantum characterization of such devices.

id: 1305.5716
title: On a quite recent proposal of faster than light quantum communication
authors: G.C Ghirardi, R. Romano
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. This paper has been withdrawn because we have worked out a more general and complete proof of the same argument
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5716
abstract: In a recent paper, Kalamidas has advanced a new proposal of faster than light communication which has not yet been proved invalid. In this paper we show that, as all previous proposals, it does not work. The mistake arises from an inappropriate use of some approximations.

id: 1305.5730
title: Adiabatic quantum metrology with strongly correlated quantum optical systems
authors: P. A. Ivanov, D. Porras
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5730
abstract: We show that the quasi-adiabatic evolution of a system governed by the Dicke Hamiltonian can be described in terms of a self-induced quantum many-body metrological protocol. This effect relies on the sensitivity of the ground state to a small symmetry-breaking perturbation at the quantum phase transition, that leads to the collapse of the wavefunciton into one of two possible ground states. The scaling of the final state properties with the number of atoms and with the intensity of the symmetry breaking field, can be interpreted in terms of the precession time of an effective quantum metrological protocol. We show that our ideas can be tested with spin-phonon interactions in trapped ion setups. Our work points to a classification of quantum phase transitions in terms of the capability of many-body quantum systems for parameter estimation.

id: 1305.5744
title: Dissipation attack on Bennett-Brassard 1984 protocol in practical quantum key distribution system
authors: Li Yang, Bing Zhu
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5744
abstract: We propose a new kind of individual attack, based on randomly selected dissipation, on Bennett-Brassard 1984 protocol of practical quantum key distribution (QKD) system with lossy and noisy quantum channel. Since an adversary with super quantum channel can disguise loss and errors induced by his attack as that of the system, he can obtain innegligible amount of information for a practical QKD system, without being detected by legal participants.

id: 1305.5776
title: Time-Energy Measure for Quantum Processes
authors: Chi-Hang Fred Fung, H. F. Chau
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012307 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5776
abstract: Quantum mechanics sets limits on how fast quantum processes can run given some system energy through time-energy uncertainty relations, and they imply that time and energy are tradeoff against each other. Thus, we propose to measure the time-energy as a single unit for quantum channels. We consider a time-energy measure for quantum channels and compute lower and upper bounds of it using the channel Kraus operators. For a special class of channels (which includes the depolarizing channel), we can obtain the exact value of the time-energy measure. One consequence of our result is that erasing quantum information requires $\sqrt{(n+1)/n}$ times more time-energy resource than erasing classical information, where $n$ is the system dimension.

id: 1305.5792
title: Entanglement due to noncommutativity in the phase-space
authors: Catarina Bastos, Alex E. Bernardini, Orfeu Bertolami, Nuno Costa Dias, Jo?o Nuno Prata
comments: 10 gages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5792
abstract: The entanglement criterion for continuous variable systems and the conditions under which the uncertainty relations are fulfilled are generalized to the case of a noncommutative (NC) phase-space. The quantum nature and the separability of NC two-mode Gaussian states are examined. It is shown that the entanglement of Gaussian states may be exclusively induced by switching on the noncommutative deformation.

id: 1305.5837
title: Comment on: "Classical signature of quantum annealing"
authors: Lei Wang, Troels F. R?nnow, Sergio Boixo, Sergei V. Isakov, Zhihui Wang, David Wecker, Daniel A. Lidar, John M. Martinis, Matthias Troyer
comments: 3 pages, 5 figures, ancillary file contains 1000 instances and QA success probabilities
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5837
abstract: In a recent preprint (arXiv:1305.4904) entitled "Classical signature of quantum annealing" Smolin and Smith point out that a bimodal distribution presented in (arXiv:1304.4595) for the success probability in the D-Wave device does not in itself provide sufficient evidence for quantum annealing, by presenting a classical model that also exhibits bimodality. Here we analyze their model and in addition present a similar model derived from the semi-classical limit of quantum spin dynamics, which also exhibits a bimodal distribution. We find that in both cases the correlations between the success probabilities of these classical models and the D-Wave device are weak compared to the correlations between a simulated quantum annealer and the D-Wave device. Indeed, the evidence for quantum annealing presented in arXiv:1304.4595 is not limited to the bimodality, but relies in addition on the success probability correlations between the D-Wave device and the simulated quantum annealer. The Smolin-Smith model and our semi-classical spin model both fail this correlation test.

id: 1305.5853
title: Quantum Energy Teleportation between Spin Particles in a Gibbs State
authors: Michael Frey, Karl Gerlach, Masahiro Hotta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5853
abstract: Energy in a multipartite quantum system appears from an operational perspective to be distributed to some extent non-locally because of correlations extant among the system's components. This non-locality allows users to transfer, in effect, locally accessible energy between sites of different system components by LOCC (local operations and classical communication). Quantum energy teleportation is a three-step LOCC protocol, accomplished without an external energy carrier, for effectively transferring energy between two physically separated, but correlated, sites. We apply this LOCC teleportation protocol to a model Heisenberg spin particle pair initially in a quantum thermal Gibbs state, making temperature an explicit parameter. We find in this setting that energy teleportation is possible at any temperature, even at temperatures above the threshold where the particles' entanglement vanishes. This shows for Gibbs spin states that entanglement is not fundamentally necessary for energy teleportation; correlation other than entanglement can suffice. Dissonance---quantum correlation in separable states---is in this regard shown to be a quantum resource for energy teleportation, more dissonance being consistently associated with greater energy yield. We compare energy teleportation from particle A to B in Gibbs states with direct local energy extraction by a general quantum operation on B and find a temperature threshold below which energy extraction by a local operation is impossible. This threshold delineates essentially two regimes: a high temperature regime where entanglement vanishes and the teleportation generated by other quantum correlations yields only vanishingly little energy relative to local extraction and a second low-temperature teleportation regime where energy is available at B only by teleportation.

id: 1305.5895
title: Compressed Simulation of evolutions of the XY-model
authors: Walter L. Boyajian, Valentin Murg, Barbara Kraus
comments: 20 pages, 11 figures, corrected minor typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052329 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5895
abstract: We extend the notion of compressed quantum simulation to the XY-model. We derive a quantum circuit processing log(n) qubits which simulates the 1D XY-model describing n qubits. In particular, we demonstrate how the adiabatic evolution can be realized on this exponentially smaller system and how the magnetization, which witnesses a quantum phase transition can be observed. Furthermore, we analyze several dynamical processes, like quantum quenching and finite time evolution and derive the corresponding compressed quantum circuit.

id: 1305.5941
title: Computing quantum discord is NP-complete
authors: Yichen Huang
comments: The (published) journal version this http URL is more updated than the arXiv versions, and is accompanied with a general scientific summary for non-specialists in computational complexity
journal: New Journal of Physics 16, 033027 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5941
abstract: We study the computational complexity of quantum discord (a measure of quantum correlation beyond entanglement), and prove that computing quantum discord is NP-complete. Therefore, quantum discord is computationally intractable: the running time of any algorithm for computing quantum discord is believed to grow exponentially with the dimension of the Hilbert space so that computing quantum discord in a quantum system of moderate size is not possible in practice. As by-products, some entanglement measures (namely entanglement cost, entanglement of formation, relative entropy of entanglement, squashed entanglement, classical squashed entanglement, conditional entanglement of mutual information, and broadcast regularization of mutual information) and constrained Holevo capacity are NP-hard/NP-complete to compute. These complexity-theoretic results are directly applicable in common randomness distillation, quantum state merging, entanglement distillation, superdense coding, and quantum teleportation; they may offer significant insights into quantum information processing. Moreover, we prove the NP-completeness of two typical problems: linear optimization over classical states and detecting classical states in a convex set, providing evidence that working with classical states is generically computationally intractable.

id: 1305.5970
title: The Private Classical Capacity of a Partially Degradable Quantum Channel
authors: Laszlo Gyongyosi
comments: 10 pages, Journal-ref: Physica Scripta, Special Issue on Quantum Information (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5970
abstract: For a partially degradable (PD) channel, the channel output state can be used to simulate the degraded environment state. The quantum capacity of a PD channel has been proven to be additive. Here, we show that the private classical capacity of arbitrary dimensional PD channels is equal to the quantum capacity of the channel and also single-letterizes. We prove that higher rates of private classical communication can be achieved over a PD channel in comparison to standard degradable channels.

id: 1305.5985
title: Partially random phase attack to the practical two-way quantum-key-distribution system
authors: Shi-Hai Sun, Ming Gao, Mu-Sheng Jiang, Chun-Yan Li, Lin-Mei Liang
comments: 9pages,7figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 032304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5985
abstract: Phase randomization is a very important assumption in the Bennett-Brassard 1984 quantum key distribution (QKD) system with a weak coherent source. Thus an active phase modulator is needed to randomize the phase of source. However, it is hard to check whether the phase of source is randomized totally or not in practical QKD systems. In this paper a partially random phase attack is proposed to exploit this imperfection. Our analysis shows that Eve can break the security of a two-way QKD system by using our attack, even if an active phase randomization is adopted by Alice. Furthermore, the numerical simulation shows that in some parameter regimes, our attack is immune to the one-decoy-state method.

id: 1305.5986
title: Single-photon-detection attack on the phase-coding continuous-variable quantum cryptography
authors: Shi-Hai Sun, Mu-Sheng Jiang, Lin-Mei Liang
comments: 6oages,4figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 012305 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5986
abstract: The phase-coding quantum cryptographic scheme using the homodyne detection and weak coherent state [Hirano et al.,Phys. Rev. A 68, 042331 (2003)] provides the simplest continuous-variable quantum key distribution scheme from the experimental side. However, the inherent loss of the practical system will not only increase the bit error rate (BER) but also affect the security of the final key. In this paper, we propose a single-photon-detection attack, and then the security of the final key will be compromised in some parameter regimes. Our results show that the BER induced by Eve can be lower than the inherent BER induced by the loss of the system in some parameter regimes. Furthermore, our attack gives the maximal communication distance of this scheme for given experimental parameters.

id: 1305.5989
title: Optimised quantum hacking of superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors
authors: Michael G. Tanner, Vadim Makarov, Robert H. Hadfield
comments: Various minor corrections, including: consideration of reset mechanism from normal detection and blinded states; alternate active reset circuits; alternate readout circuits, added detail to application to QKD protocols. 15 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Opt. Express 22, 6734 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5989
abstract: We explore bright-light control of superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors (SNSPDs) in the shunted configuration (a practical measure to avoid latching). In an experiment, we simulate an illumination pattern the SNSPD would receive in a typical quantum key distribution system under hacking attack. We show that it effectively blinds and controls the SNSPD. The transient blinding illumination lasts for a fraction of a microsecond and produces several deterministic fake clicks during this time. This attack does not lead to elevated timing jitter in the spoofed output pulse, and hence does not introduce significant errors. Five different SNSPD chip designs were tested. We consider possible countermeasures to this attack.

id: 1305.5995
title: Anderson localisation in laser kicked molecules
authors: Johannes Flo?, Shmuel Fishman, Ilya Sh. Averbukh
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5995
abstract: The paper explores the prospects of observing the phenomenon of dynamical Anderson localisation via non-resonant Raman-type rotational excitation of molecules by periodic trains of short laser pulses. We define conditions for such an experiment, and show that current femtosecond technology used for non-adiabatic laser alignment of linear molecules is sufficient for this task. Several observables which can serve as indicator for Anderson localisation are suggested for measurement, and the influence of experimental limitations imposed by laser intensity noise, finite pulse duration, limited number of pulses in a train, and thermal effects is analysed.

id: 1305.6009
title: Entanglement enhances cooling in microscopic quantum fridges
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Marcus Huber, Noah Linden, Sandu Popescu, Ralph Silva, Paul Skrzypczyk
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 032115 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6009
abstract: Small self-contained quantum thermal machines function without external source of work or control, but using only incoherent interactions with thermal baths. Here we investigate the role of entanglement in a small self-contained quantum refrigerator. We first show that entanglement is detrimental as far as efficiency is concerned---fridges operating at efficiencies close to the Carnot limit do not feature any entanglement. Moving away from the Carnot regime, we show that entanglement can enhance cooling and energy transport. Hence a truly quantum refrigerator can outperform a classical one. Furthermore, the amount of entanglement alone quantifies the enhancement in cooling.

id: 1305.6020
title: Three-dimensional imaging of cavity vacuum with single atoms localized by a nanohole array
authors: Moonjoo Lee, Junki Kim, Wontaek Seo, Hyun-Gue Hong, Younghoon Song, Ramachandra R. Dasari, Kyungwon An
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Communications 5, Article number: 3441 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6020
abstract: Zero-point electromagnetic fields were first introduced to explain the origin of atomic spontaneous emission. Vacuum fluctuations associated with the zero-point energy in cavities are now utilized in quantum devices such as single-photon sources, quantum memories, switches and network nodes. Here we present three-dimensional (3D) imaging of vacuum fluctuations in a high-Q cavity based on the measurement of position-dependent emission of single atoms. Atomic position localization is achieved by using a nanoscale atomic beam aperture scannable in front of the cavity mode. The 3D structure of the cavity vacuum is reconstructed from the cavity output. The root mean squared amplitude of the vacuum field at the antinode is also measured to be 0.92+-0.07V/cm. The present work utilizing a single atom as a probe for sub-wavelength imaging demonstrates the utility of nanometre-scale technology in cavity quantum electrodynamics.

id: 1305.6044
title: A geometrical relation between symmetric operators and mutually unbiased operators
authors: Amir Kalev
comments: comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6044
abstract: In this work we study the relation between the set of symmetric operators and the set of mutually unbiased operators from finite plane geometry point of view. Here symmetric operators are generalization of symmetric informationally complete probability-operator measurements (SIC POMs), while mutually unbiased operators are the operator generalization of mutually unbiased bases (MUB). We also discuss the implication of this relation to the particular cases of rank-1 SIC POMs and MUB.

id: 1305.6077
title: Role of intensity fluctuations in third-order correlation double-slit interference of thermal light
authors: Xi-Hao Chen, Wen Chen, Shao-Ying Meng, Wei Wu, Guang-Jie Zhai, Ling-An Wu
comments: 10 pages,4figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6077
abstract: A third-order double-slit interference experiment with pseudo-thermal light source in the high-intensity limit has been performed by actually recording the intensities in three optical paths. It is shown that not only can the visibil- ity be dramatically enhanced compared to the second-order case as previously theoretically predicted and shown experimentally, but also that the higher visi- bility is a consequence of the contribution of third-order correlation interaction terms, which is equal to the sum of all contributions from second-order cor- relation. It is interesting that, when the two reference detectors are scanned in opposite directions, negative values for the third-order correlation term of the intensity fluctuations may appear. The phenomenon can be completely explained by the theory of classical statistical optics, and is the first concrete demonstration of the influence of the third-order correlation terms.

id: 1305.6078
title: Degree Distribution in Quantum Walks on Complex Networks
authors: Mauro Faccin, Tomi Johnson, Jacob Biamonte, Sabre Kais, Piotr Migda?
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures; improved description and new examples; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. X
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 041007 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6078
abstract: In this theoretical study, we analyze quantum walks on complex networks, which model network-based processes ranging from quantum computing to biology and even sociology. Specifically, we analytically relate the average long time probability distribution for the location of a unitary quantum walker to that of a corresponding classical walker. The distribution of the classical walker is proportional to the distribution of degrees, which measures the connectivity of the network nodes and underlies many methods for analyzing classical networks including website ranking. The quantum distribution becomes exactly equal to the classical distribution when the walk has zero energy and at higher energies the difference, the so-called quantumness, is bounded by the energy of the initial state. We give an example for which the quantumness equals a Renyi entropy of the normalized weighted degrees, guiding us to regimes for which the classical degree-dependent result is recovered and others for which quantum effects dominate.

id: 1305.6082
title: Time-resolved magnetic sensing with electronic spins in diamond
authors: Alexandre Cooper, Easwar Magesan, Honam Yum, Paola Cappellaro
comments: 8+12 pages
journal: Nat. Commun. 5, 3141 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6082
abstract: Quantum probes can measure time-varying fields with high sensitivity and spatial resolution, enabling the study of biological, material, and physical phenomena at the nanometer scale. In particular, nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond have recently emerged as promising sensors of magnetic and electric fields. Although coherent control techniques have measured the amplitude of constant or oscillating fields, these techniques are not suitable for measuring time-varying fields with unknown dynamics. Here we introduce a coherent acquisition method to accurately reconstruct the temporal profile of time-varying fields using Walsh sequences. These decoupling sequences act as digital filters that efficiently extract spectral coefficients while suppressing decoherence, thus providing improved sensitivity over existing strategies. We experimentally reconstruct the magnetic field radiated by a physical model of a neuron using a single electronic spin in diamond and discuss practical applications. These results will be useful to implement time-resolved magnetic sensing with quantum probes at the nanometer scale.

id: 1305.6086
title: Direct Experimental Simulation of the Yang-Baxter Equation
authors: Chao Zheng, Jun-lin Li, Si-yu Song, Gui Lu Long
comments: 7 pages. 6 figures
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 30, Issue 6, pp. 1688-1693 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6086
abstract: Introduced in the field of many-body statistical mechanics, Yang-Baxter equation has become an important tool in a variety fields of physics. In this work, we report the first direct experimental simulation of the Yang-Baxter equation using linear quantum optics. The equality between the two sides of the Yang-Baxter equation in two dimension has been demonstrated directly, and the spectral parameter transformation in the Yang-Baxter equation is explicitly confirmed.

id: 1305.6127
title: Fast and robust population transfer in two-level quantum systems with dephasing noise and/or systematic frequency errors
authors: Xiao-Jing Lu, Xi Chen, A. Ruschhaupt, D. Alonso, S. Gu¨¦rin, J. G. Muga
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033406 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6127
abstract: We design, by invariant-based inverse engineering, driving fields that invert the population of a two-level atom in a given time, robustly with respect to dephasing noise and/or systematic frequency shifts. Without imposing constraints, optimal protocols are insensitive to the perturbations but need an infinite energy. For a constrained value of the Rabi frequency, a flat $\pi$ pulse is the least sensitive protocol to phase noise but not to systematic frequency shifts, for which we describe and optimize a family of protocols.

id: 1305.6133
title: Perfect transfer of coherent state-based qubits via coupled cavities
authors: N. Behzadi, S. Kazemi Rudsary, B. Ahansaz Salmasi
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0211055 by other authors
journal: The European Physical Journal D November 2013, 67:247
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6133
abstract: Motivated by the need for communication of coherent state-based qubits in quantum computers, we introduce a method for perfect transferring of an arbitrary superposition of coherent states between two distant nodes of a linear array of three semiconductor QDs. The QDs trapped in a system of coupled cavities. In this method, the field mode of the cavities, as the resource of transferring of quantum states, are only virtually excited which minimizes the effect of decoherence due to photon loss.

id: 1305.6168
title: Are collapse models testable with quantum oscillating systems? The case of neutrinos, kaons, chiral molecules
authors: M. Bahrami, S. Donadi, L. Ferialdi, A. Bassi, C. Curceanu, A. Di Domenico, B. C. Hiesmayr
comments: accepted by NATURE Scientific Reports, 12 pages, 1 figures, 2 tables
journal: Nature:Scientific Reports 3, 1952
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6168
abstract: Collapse models provide a theoretical framework for understanding how classical world emerges from quantum mechanics. Their dynamics preserves (practically) quantum linearity for microscopic systems, while it becomes strongly nonlinear when moving towards macroscopic scale. The conventional approach to test collapse models is to create spatial superpositions of mesoscopic systems and then examine the loss of interference, while environmental noises are engineered carefully. Here we investigate a different approach: We study systems that naturally oscillate --creating quantum superpositions-- and thus represent a natural case-study for testing quantum linearity: neutrinos, neutral mesons, and chiral molecules. We will show how spontaneous collapses affect their oscillatory behavior, and will compare them with environmental decoherence effects. We will show that, contrary to what previously predicted, collapse models cannot be tested with neutrinos. The effect is stronger for neutral mesons, but still beyond experimental reach. Instead, chiral molecules can offer promising candidates for testing collapse models.

id: 1305.6183
title: Commutant structuture of Ux...xUxU* transformations
authors: Micha? Studzi¨½ski, Micha? Horodecki, Marek Mozrzymas
comments: 26 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 395303 (31pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6183
abstract: In this paper we have found irreducible representations (irreps) of the algebra of partially transposed permutation operators on last subsystem. We give here direct method of irreps construction for an arbitrary number of subsystems n and local dimension d. Our method is inspired by representation theory of symmetric group S(n), theory of Brauer Algebras and Walled Brauer Algebras.

id: 1305.6190
title: Classical simulation complexity of extended Clifford circuits
authors: Richard Jozsa, Maarten Van den Nest
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6190
abstract: Clifford gates are a winsome class of quantum operations combining mathematical elegance with physical significance. The Gottesman-Knill theorem asserts that Clifford computations can be classically efficiently simulated but this is true only in a suitably restricted setting. Here we consider Clifford computations with a variety of additional ingredients: (a) strong vs. weak simulation, (b) inputs being computational basis states vs. general product states, (c) adaptive vs. non-adaptive choices of gates for circuits involving intermediate measurements, (d) single line outputs vs. multi-line outputs. We consider the classical simulation complexity of all combinations of these ingredients and show that many are not classically efficiently simulatable (subject to common complexity assumptions such as P not equal to NP). Our results reveal a surprising proximity of classical to quantum computing power viz. a class of classically simulatable quantum circuits which yields universal quantum computation if extended by a purely classical additional ingredient that does not extend the class of quantum processes occurring.

id: 1305.6219
title: A model of quantum reality
authors: Eduardo V. Flores
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6219
abstract: Here we propose a model of particles and fields based on the mathematical framework of quantum physics. Our model is an interpretation of quantum physics that treats particles and fields as physically real. We analyze four experiments on wave-particle duality that pose paradoxes. We show that within our model these paradoxes are resolved.

id: 1305.6225
title: Long-range multipartite entanglement close to a first order quantum phase transition
authors: Julia Stasi¨½ska, Benjamin Rogers, Mauro Paternostro, Gabriele De Chiara, Anna Sanpera
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX 4, the abstract was changed and the manuscript was extended including the contents of the previous appendix B
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032330 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6225
abstract: We provide insight in the quantum correlations structure present in strongly correlated systems beyond the standard framework of bipartite entanglement. To this aim we first exploit rotationally invariant states as a test bed to detect genuine tripartite entanglement beyond the nearest-neighbor in spin-1/2 models. Then we construct in a closed analytical form a family of entanglement witnesses which provides a sufficient condition to determine if a state of a many-body system formed by an arbitrary number of spin-1/2 particles possesses genuine tripartite entanglement, independently of the details of the model. We illustrate our method by analyzing in detail the anisotropic XXZ spin chain close to its phase transitions, where we demonstrate the presence of long range multipartite entanglement near the critical point and the breaking of the symmetries associated to the quantum phase transition.

id: 1305.6244
title: Easily Implemented Rate Compatible Reconciliation Protocol for Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Zhengchao Wei, Zhi Ma
comments: 5 pagers, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6244
abstract: Reconciliation is an important step to correct errors in Quantum Key Distribution (QKD). In QKD, after comparing basis, two legitimate parties possess two correlative keys which have some differences and they could obtain identical keys through reconciliation. In this paper, we present a new rate compatible reconciliation scheme based on Row Combining with Edge Variation (RCEV) Low Density Parity Check (LDPC) codes which could change code rate adaptively in noisy channel where error rate may change with time. Our scheme is easy to implement and could get good efficiency compared to existing schemes. Meanwhile, due to the inherent structure we use, the new scheme not only saves memory space remarkably but also simplifies the decoder architecture and accelerates the decoding.

id: 1305.6250
title: Trade-off between Performance and Reversibility of Entanglement Concentration for Pure Entangled State
authors: Wataru Kumagai, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures. Harrow & Lo's paper and Hayden & Winter's paper were added in references and a relation between those papers and the paper was clarified. The title was changed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 130407 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6250
abstract: In quantum information theory, it is widely believed that entanglement concentration for bipartite pure states is asymptotically reversible. In order to examine this, we give a precise formulation of the problem, and show a trade-off relation between performance and reversibility, which implies the irreversibility of entanglement concentration. Then, we regard entanglement concentration as entangled state compression in an entanglement storage with lower dimension. Because of the irreversibility of entanglement concentration, an initial state can not be completely recovered after the compression process and a loss inevitably arises in the process. We numerically calculate this loss and also derive for it a highly accurate analytical approximation.

id: 1305.6270
title: Vortex Loops and Majoranas
authors: Stefano Chesi, Arthur Jaffe, Daniel Loss, Fabio L. Pedrocchi
comments: 28 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 112203 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6270
abstract: We investigate the role that vortex loops play in characterizing eigenstates of interacting Majoranas. We first give some general results, and then we focus on ladder Hamiltonian examples to test further ideas. Two methods yield exact results: i.) We utilize the mapping of spin Hamiltonians to quartic interactions of Majoranas and show under certain conditions the spectra of these two examples coincide. ii) In cases with reflection-symmetric Hamiltonians, we use reflection positivity for Majoranas to characterize vortices. Aside from these exact results, two additional methods suggest wider applicability of these results: iii.) Numerical evidence suggests similar behavior for certain systems without reflection symmetry. iv.) A perturbative analysis also suggests similar behavior without the assumption of reflection symmetry.

id: 1305.6279
title: Increasing and decreasing entanglement characteristics for continuous variables by a local photon subtraction
authors: Su-Yong Lee, Se-Wan Ji, Chang-Woo Lee
comments: Published version, 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052321 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6279
abstract: We investigate how the entanglement characteristics of a non-Gaussian entangled state are increased or decreased by a local photon subtraction operation. The non-Gaussian entangled state is generated by injecting a single-mode non-Gaussian state and a vacuum state into a 50:50 beam splitter. We consider a photon-added coherent state and an odd coherent state as a single-mode non-Gaussian state. In the regime of small amplitude, we show that the performance of quantum teleportation and the second-order Einstein-Podolsky- Rosen-type correlation can both be enhanced, whereas the degree of entanglement decreases, for the output state when a local photon subtraction operation is applied to the non-Gaussian entangled state. The counterintuitive effect is more prominent in the limit of nearly zero amplitude.

id: 1305.6366
title: Quantum advantage by weak measurements
authors: Lin-Ping Huai, Bo Li, Shi-Xian Qu, Heng Fan
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6366
abstract: Weak measurements may result in extra quantity of quantumness of correlations compared with standard projective measurement on a bipartite quantum state. We show that the quantumness of correlations by weak measurements can be consumed for information encoding which is only accessible by coherent quantum interactions. Then it can be considered as a resource for quantum information processing and can quantify this quantum advantage. We conclude that weak measurements can create more valuable quantum correlation.

id: 1305.6375
title: Conditionally valid uncertainty relations
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 26 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A88, 012126 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6375
abstract: It is shown that the well-defined unbiased measurement or disturbance of a dynamical variable is not maintained for the precise measurement of the conjugate variable, independently of uncertainty relations. The conditionally valid uncertainty relations on the basis of those additional assumptions, which include most of the familiar Heisenberg-type relations, thus become singular for the precise measurement. We clarify some contradicting conclusions in the literature concerning those conditionally valid uncertainty relations: The failure of a naive Heisenberg-type error-disturbance relation and the modified Arthurs-Kelly relation in the recent spin measurement is attributed to this singular behavior. The naive Heisenberg-type error-disturbance relation is formally preserved in quantum estimation theory, which is shown to be based on the strict unbiased measurement and disturbance, but it leads to unbounded disturbance for bounded operators such as spin variables. In contrast, the Heisenberg-type error-error uncertainty relation and the Arthurs-Kelly relation, as conditionally valid uncertainty relations, are consistently maintained.

id: 1305.6403
title: Driving at the quantum speed limit: Optimal control of a two-level system
authors: Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review Letters 111, 260501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6403
abstract: A remarkably simple result is derived for the minimal time $T_{\rm min}$ required to drive a general initial state to a final target state by a Landau-Zener type Hamiltonian or, equivalently, by time-dependent laser driving. The associated protocol is also derived. A surprise arises for some states when the interaction strength is assumed to be bounded by a constant $c$. Then, for large $c$, the optimal driving is of type bang-off-bang and for increasing $c$ one recovers the unconstrained result. However, for smaller $c$ the optimal driving can suddenly switch to bang-bang type. We discuss the notion of quantum speed limit time.

id: 1305.6405
title: Tracking Emission Rate Dynamics of NV Centers in Nanodiamonds
authors: Faraz A Inam, Andrew M Edmonds, Michael J Steel, Stefania Castelletto
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6405
abstract: Spontaneous emission from crystal centers is influenced by both the photonic local density of states and non-radiative processes. Here we monitor the spontaneous emission of single nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers as their host diamond is reduced in size from a large monolithic crystal to a nanocrystal by successive cycles of oxidation. The size reduction induces a quenching of the NV radiative emission. New non-radiative channels lead to a decrease of the fluorescence intensity and the excited state lifetime. In one case we observe the onset of blinking which may provide a route to understand these additional non-radiative decay channels.

id: 1305.6424
title: Protection of center-spin coherence by dynamically polarizing nuclear spin core in diamond
authors: Gang-Qin Liu, Qian-Qing Jiang, Yan-Chun Chang, Dong-Qi Liu, Wu-Xia Li, Chang-Zhi Gu, Hoi Chun Po, Wen-Xian Zhang, Nan Zhao, Xin-Yu Pan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6424
abstract: We experimentally investigate the protection of electron spin coherence of nitrogen vacancy (NV) center in diamond by dynamical nuclear polarization. The electron spin decoherence of an NV center is caused by the magnetic ield fluctuation of the $^{13}$C nuclear spin bath, which contributes large thermal fluctuation to the center electron spin when it is in equilibrium state at room temperature. To address this issue, we continuously transfer the angular momentum from electron spin to nuclear spins, and pump the nuclear spin bath to a polarized state under Hartman-Hahn condition. The bath polarization effect is verified by the observation of prolongation of the electron spin coherence time ($T_2^*$). Optimal conditions for the dynamical nuclear polarization (DNP) process, including the pumping pulse duration and depolarization effect of laser pulses, are studied. Our experimental results provide strong support for quantum information processing and quantum simulation using polarized nuclear spin bath in solid state systems.

id: 1305.6433
title: Non-Abelian Phases from a Quantum Zeno Dynamics
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Paolo Facchi, Vittorio Giovannetti, Hiromichi Nakazato, Saverio Pascazio, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042107 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6433
abstract: A connection is estabilished between the non-Abelian phases obtained via adiabatic driving and those acquired via a quantum Zeno dynamics induced by repeated projective measurements. In comparison to the adiabatic case, the Zeno dynamics is shown to be more flexible in tuning the system evolution, which paves the way to the implementation of unitary quantum gates and applications in quantum control.

id: 1305.6460
title: Optical bistability in strong-coupling cavity QED with a few atoms
authors: Andr¨¢s Dombi, Andr¨¢s Vukics, Peter Domokos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6460
abstract: We present exact numerical solutions of the damped-driven Jaynes--Cummings model adapted to describe absorptive optical bistability in the limit of a few atoms strongly coupled to a high-finesse resonator. We show that the simplifying semiclassical result for many physical quantities of interest is well reproduced by the quantum model including even with only a few atoms in the strongly coupled system. Nontrivial atom-field quantum cross-correlations show up in the strong-driving limit.

id: 1305.6480
title: An efficient implementation of the decoy-state measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution with heralded single-photon sources
authors: Qin Wang, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052332 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6480
abstract: We study the decoy-state measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution using heralded single-photon sources. This has the advantage that the observed error rate in X basis is in higher order and not so large. We calculate the key rate and transmission distance for two cases: one using only triggered events, and the other using both triggered and non-triggered events. We compare the key rates of various protocols and find that our new scheme using triggered and non-triggered events can give higher key rate and longer secure distance. Moreover, we also show the different behavior of our scheme when using different heralded single-photon sources, i.e., in poisson or thermal distribution. We demonstrate that the former can generate a relatively higher secure key rate than the latter, and can thus work more efficiently in practical quantum key distributions.

id: 1305.6514
title: Nonlinear-dissipation-induced Entanglement of Coupled Nonlinear Oscillators
authors: Aurora Voje, Andreas Isacsson, Alexander Croy
comments: 4.5 pages, 3 figures; minor revisions, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6514
abstract: The quantum dynamics of two weakly coupled nonlinear oscillators is analytically and numerically investigated in the context of nonlinear dissipation. The latter facilitates the creation and preservation of non-classical steady states. Starting from a microscopic description of two oscillators individually interacting with their dissipative environments, it is found that in addition to energy relaxation, dephasing arises due to the mutual coupling. Using the negativity as an entanglement measure, it is shown that the coupling entangles the oscillators in the long-time limit. For finite temperatures, entanglement sudden death and rebirth are observed.

id: 1305.6545
title: Construction of all general symmetric informationally complete measurements
authors: Amir Kalev, Gilad Gour
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 335302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6545
abstract: We construct the set of all general (i.e. not necessarily rank 1) symmetric informationally complete (SIC) positive operator valued measures (POVMs). In particular, we show that any orthonormal basis of a real vector space of dimension d^2-1 corresponds to some general SIC POVM and vice versa. Our constructed set of all general SIC-POVMs contains weak SIC-POVMs for which each POVM element can be made arbitrarily close to a multiple times the identity. On the other hand, it remains open if for all finite dimensions our constructed family contains a rank 1 SIC-POVM.

id: 1305.6565
title: Path Integrals and Reality
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6565
abstract: We define the idea of {\it real path quantum theory}, a realist generalisation of quantum theory in which it is postulated that the configuration space path actually followed by a closed quantum system is probabilistically chosen. This is done a postulate defining probabilities for paths, which we propose are determined by an expression involving path amplitudes and a distance function that quantifies path separation. We suggest a possible form for a path probability postulate and explore possible choices of distance function, including choices suitable for Lorentz or generally covariant versions of real path quantum theory. We set out toy models of quantum interferometry and show that in these models the probability postulate and specific distance functions do indeed give a physically sensible path ontology. These functions can be chosen so as to predict quantum interference for interference of microscopic quantum systems and the failure of interference for macroscopic quantum systems. More generally, they predict interference when the beams are close, and its failure when they are far apart, as determined by the distance function. If taken seriously in its present relatively unconstrained form, real path quantum theory thus motivates experimental tests of quantum interference in all unexplored regimes defined by potentially physically interesting parameters, including the mass of the beam object, the beam separation distance, the beam separation time, and many others. We discuss open questions raised by these ideas.

id: 1305.6566
title: Almost local generation of EPR entanglement in non-equilibrium
authors: Rebecca Schmidt, J¨¹rgen T. Stockburger, Joachim Ankerhold
comments: Language changes in title, abstract, and explanatory passages. No changes to figures, formulae, or results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052321 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6566
abstract: The generation of entanglement is studied in a minimal model consisting of two independent Gaussian parties embedded in a common heat bath and subject to local control signals. Neither the reservoir alone nor the external driving can induce quantum non-locality but only the cooperative impact of both in non-equilibrium. It is shown that this corresponds to a dynamical symmetry breaking between the modes. By applying optimal control protocols substantial entanglement is generated even for single-site control and at higher temperatures and is preserved after the control is switched off.

id: 1305.6576
title: Frozen photons in Jaynes Cummings arrays
authors: N. Schetakis, T. Grujic, S. R. Clark, D. Jaksch, D. G. Angelakis
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures. Contribution to the JOSA B special issue celebrating Jaynes-Cummings physics
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 224025
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6576
abstract: We study the origin of "frozen" states in coupled Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard arrays in the presence of losses. For the case of half the array initially populated with photons while the other half is left empty we show the emergence of self-localized photon or "frozen" states for specific values of the local atom-photon coupling. We analyze the dynamics in the quantum regime and discover important additional features appear not captured by a semiclassical treatment, which we analyze for different array sizes and filling fractions. We trace the origin of this interaction-induced photon "freezing" to the suppression of excitation of propagating modes in the system at large interaction strengths. We discuss in detail the possibility to experimentally probe the relevant transition by analyzing the emitted photon correlations. We find a strong signature of the effect in the emitted photons statistics.

id: 1305.6604
title: Reconstructing the Profile of Time-Varying Magnetic Fields With Quantum Sensors
authors: Easwar Magesan, Alexandre Cooper, Honam Yum, Paola Cappellaro
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032107 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6604
abstract: Quantum systems have shown great promise for precision metrology thanks to advances in their control. This has allowed not only the sensitive estimation of external parameters but also the reconstruction of their temporal profile. In particular, quantum control techniques and orthogonal function theory have been applied to the reconstruction of the complete profiles of time-varying magnetic fields. Here, we provide a detailed theoretical analysis of the reconstruction method based on the Walsh functions, highlighting the relationship between the orthonormal Walsh basis, sensitivity of field reconstructions, data compression techniques, and dynamical decoupling theory. Specifically, we show how properties of the Walsh basis and a detailed sensitivity analysis of the reconstruction protocol provide a method to characterize the error between the reconstructed and true fields. In addition, we prove various results about the negligibility function on binary sequences which lead to data compression techniques in the Walsh basis and a more resource-efficient reconstruction protocol. The negligibility proves a fruitful concept to unify the information content of Walsh functions and their dynamical decoupling power, which makes the reconstruction method robust against noise.

id: 1305.6614
title: Advanced Quantum Noise
authors: Ulrich Vogl, Ryan T. Glasser, Jeremy B. Clark, Quentin Glorieux, Tian Li, Neil V. Corzo, Paul D. Lett
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6614
abstract: We use the quantum correlations of twin-beams of light to probe the added noise when one of the beams propagates through a medium with anomalous dispersion. The experiment is based on two successive four-wave mixing processes in rubidium vapor, which allow for the generation of bright two-mode-squeezed twin-beams followed by a controlled advancement while maintaining the shared quantum-correlations between the beams. The demonstrated effect allows the study of irreversible decoherence in a medium exhibiting anomalous dispersion, and for the first time shows the advancement of a bright nonclassical state of light. The advancement and corresponding degradation of the quantum correlations are found to be operating near the fundamental quantum limit imposed by using a phase-insensitive amplifier.

id: 1305.6626
title: Robust Randomness Amplifiers: Upper and Lower Bounds
authors: Matthew Coudron, Thomas Vidick, Henry Yuen
comments: 28 pages. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6626
abstract: A recent sequence of works, initially motivated by the study of the nonlocal properties of entanglement, demonstrate that a source of information-theoretically certified randomness can be constructed based only on two simple assumptions: the prior existence of a short random seed and the ability to ensure that two black-box devices do not communicate (i.e. are non-signaling). We call protocols achieving such certified amplification of a short random seed randomness amplifiers. We introduce a simple framework in which we initiate the systematic study of the possibilities and limitations of randomness amplifiers. Our main results include a new, improved analysis of a robust randomness amplifier with exponential expansion, as well as the first upper bounds on the maximum expansion achievable by a broad class of randomness amplifiers. In particular, we show that non-adaptive randomness amplifiers that are robust to noise cannot achieve more than doubly exponential expansion. Finally, we show that a wide class of protocols based on the use of the CHSH game can only lead to (singly) exponential expansion if adversarial devices are allowed the full power of non-signaling strategies. Our upper bound results apply to all known non-adaptive randomness amplifier constructions to date.

id: 1305.6627
title: High quantum-efficiency photon-number-resolving detector for photonic on-chip information processing
authors: Brice Calkins, Paolo L. Mennea, Adriana E. Lita, Benjamin J. Metcalf, W. Steven Kolthammer, Antia Lamas Linares, Justin B. Spring, Peter C. Humphreys, Richard P. Mirin, James C. Gates, Peter G. R. Smith, Ian A. Walmsley, Thomas Gerrits, Sae Woo Nam
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6627
abstract: The integrated optical circuit is a promising architecture for the realization of complex quantum optical states and information networks. One element that is required for many of these applications is a high-efficiency photon detector capable of photon-number discrimination. We present an integrated photonic system in the telecom band at 1550 nm based on UV-written silica-on-silicon waveguides and modified transition-edge sensors capable of number resolution and over 40% efficiency. Exploiting the mode transmission failure of these devices, we multiplex three detectors in series to demonstrate a combined 79% +/- 2% detection efficiency with a single pass, and 88% +/- 3% at the operating wavelength of an on-chip terminal reflection grating. Furthermore, our optical measurements clearly demonstrate no significant unexplained loss in this system due to scattering or reflections. This waveguide and detector design therefore allows the placement of number-resolving single-photon detectors of predictable efficiency at arbitrary locations within a photonic circuit - a capability that offers great potential for many quantum optical applications.

id: 1305.6671
title: Maximum quantum violations of a class of Bell inequalities
authors: V. Ugur Guney, Mark Hillery
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052126 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6671
abstract: We study a class of Bell inequalities and find their maximum quantum violation. These inequalities involve n parties, two measurements per party, with each measurement having two outcomes. The n=2 case corresponds to the CH inequality. We use the method of Jordan bases to find the maximum quantum violations. Results are found for the cases n=2 through n=7.

id: 1305.6698
title: Localization induced by opening; why are most eigenmodes localized in chaotic microcavities?
authors: Jung-Wan Ryu, Sang Wook Kim
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6698
abstract: We show that localization occurs when a quantum system is opened with large enough amount. This is understood by considering non-Hermitian random matrices, which also reveals the relation between the non-Hermitian degeneracy, called the exceptional point, and such an opening-induced localization. Based upon it we propose a plausible explanation on a long-lasting question, why most modes are found to be localized in open quantum systems with classically chaotic dynamics. Numerical results obtained from the stadium microcavity confirms our proposal.

id: 1305.6733
title: Entropy production and information fluctuations along quantum trajectories
authors: B. Leggio, A. Napoli, A. Messina, H.-P. Breuer
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 88, 042111 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6733
abstract: Employing the stochastic wave function method, we study quantum features of stochastic entropy production in nonequilibrium processes of open systems. It is demonstarted that continuous measurements on the environment introduce an additional, non-thermal contribution to the entropy flux, which is shown to be a direct consequence of quantum fluctuations. These features lead to a quantum definition of single trajectory entropy contributions, which accounts for the difference between classical and quantum trajectories and results in a quantum correction to the standard form of the integral fluctuation theorem.

id: 1305.6754
title: Structure, dynamics and bifurcations of discrete solitons in trapped ion crystals
authors: H. Landa, J. Brox, M. Mielenz, T. Schaetz, B. Reznik
comments: 25 pages, 10 figures, v2 corrects Fig. 2 and adds some text and references
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 093003 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6754
abstract: We study discrete solitons (kinks) accessible in state-of-the-art trapped ion experiments, considering zigzag crystals and quasi-3D configurations, both theoretically and experimentally. We first extend the theoretical understanding of different phenomena predicted and recently experimentally observed in the structure and dynamics of these topological excitations. Employing tools from topological degree theory, we analyze bifurcations of crystal configurations in dependence on the trapping parameters, and investigate the formation of kink configurations and the transformations of kinks between different structures. This allows us to accurately define and calculate the effective potential experienced by solitons within the Wigner crystal, and study how this (so-called Peierls-Nabarro) potential gets modified to a nonperiodic globally trapping potential in certain parameter regimes. The kinks' rest mass (energy) and spectrum of modes are computed and the dynamics of linear and nonlinear kink oscillations are analyzed. We also present novel, experimentally observed, configurations of kinks incorporating a large-mass defect realized by an embedded molecular ion, and of pairs of interacting kinks stable for long times, offering the perspective for exploring and exploiting complex collective nonlinear excitations, controllable on the quantum level.

id: 1305.6769
title: Optimising the use of detector arrays for measuring intensity correlations of photon pairs
authors: Daniel S. Tasca, Matthew P. Edgar, Frauke Izdebski, Gerald S. Buller, Miles J. Padgett
comments: Some typos corrected, references added. 12 pages, 5 figures, revtex4; comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013816 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6769
abstract: Intensity correlation measurements form the basis of many experiments based on spontaneous parametric down-conversion. In the most common situation, two single-photon avalanche diodes and coincidence electronics are used in the detection of the photon pairs, and the coincidence count distributions are measured by making use of some scanning procedure. Here we analyse the measurement of intensity correlations using multi-element detector arrays. By considering the detector parameters such as the detection and noise probabilities, we found that the mean number of detected photons that maximises the visibility of the two photon correlations is approximately equal to the mean number of noise events in the detector array. We provide expressions predicting the strength of the measured intensity correlations as a function of the detector parameters and on the mean number of detected photons. We experimentally test our predictions by measuring far-field intensity correlations of spontaneous parametric down-conversion with an electron multiplying CCD camera, finding excellent agreement with the theoretical analysis.

id: 1305.6773
title: Dynamics of topological defects in ion Coulomb crystals
authors: Heather L. Partner, Ramil Nigmatullin, Tobias Burgermeister, Karsten Pyka, Jonas Keller, Alex Retzker, Martin B. Plenio, Tanja E. Mehlst?ubler
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 103013, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6773
abstract: We study experimentally and theoretically the properties of structural defects (kink solitons) in two-dimensional ion Coulomb crystals. We show how different types of kink solitons with different physical properties can be realized, and transformed from one type into another by varying the aspect ratio of the trap confinement. Further, we discuss how impurities in ion Coulomb crystals, such as mass defects, can modify the dynamics of kink creation and their stability. For both pure and impure crystals, the experimentally observed kink dynamics are analyzed in detail and explained theoretically by numerical simulations and calculations of the Peierls-Nabarro potential. Finally, we show that static electric fields provide a handle to vary the influence of mass defects on kinks in a controlled way and allow for deterministic manipulation and creation of kinks.

id: 1305.6782
title: Analytical eigenstates for the quantum Rabi model
authors: Honghua Zhong, Qiongtao Xie, Murray Batchelor, Chaohong Lee
comments: 15 pages, 3 figure, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 415302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6782
abstract: We develop a method to find analytical solutions for the eigenstates of the quantum Rabi model. These include symmetric, anti-symmetric and asymmetric analytic solutions given in terms of the confluent Heun functions. Both regular and exceptional solutions are given in a unified form. In addition, the analytic conditions for determining the energy spectrum are obtained. Our results show that conditions proposed by Braak [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{107}, 100401 (2011)] are a type of sufficiency condition for determining the regular solutions. The well-known Judd isolated exact solutions appear naturally as truncations of the confluent Heun functions.

id: 1305.6806
title: Spatio-spectral characteristics of parametric down-conversion in waveguide arrays
authors: Regina Kruse, Fabian Katzschmann, Andreas Christ, Andreas Schreiber, Sarah Wilhelm, Kaisa Laiho, Aur¨¦l G¨¢bris, Craig S. Hamilton, Igor Jex, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 26 pages, 11 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 083046 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6806
abstract: High dimensional quantum states are of fundamental interest for quantum information processing. They give access to large Hilbert spaces and, in turn, enable the encoding of quantum information on multiple modes. One method to create such quantum states is parametric down-conversion (PDC) in waveguide arrays (WGAs) which allows for the creation of highly entangled photon-pairs in controlled, easily accessible spatial modes, with unique spectral properties. In this paper we examine both theoretically and experimentally the PDC process in a lithium niobate WGA. We measure the spatial and spectral properties of the emitted photon-pairs, revealing strong correlations between spectral and spatial degrees of freedom of the created photons. Our measurements show that, in contrast to prior theoretical approaches, spectrally dependent coupling effects have to be taken into account in the theory of PDC in WGAs. To interpret the results, we developed a theoretical model specifically taking into account spectrally dependent coupling effects, which further enables us to explore the capabilities and limitations for engineering the spatial correlations of the generated quantum states.

id: 1305.6826
title: Long-term drifts of stray electric fields in a Paul trap
authors: Arne H?rter, Artjom Kr¨¹kow, Andreas Brunner, Johannes Hecker Denschlag
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6826
abstract: We investigate the evolution of quasi-static stray electric fields in a linear Paul trap over a period of several months. Depending on how these electric fields are initially induced we observe very different time scales for the field drifts. Photo-induced electric fields decay on time scales of days. We interpret this as photo-electrically generated charges on insulating materials which decay via discharge currents. In contrast, stray fields due to the exposure of the ion trap to a beam of Ba atoms mainly exhibit slow dynamics on the order of months. We explain this observation as a consequence of a coating of the trap electrodes by the atomic beam. This may lead to contact potentials which can slowly drift over time due to atomic diffusion and chemical processes on the surface. In order not to perturb the field evolutions, we suppress the generation of additional charges and atomic coatings in the Paul trap during the measurements. For this, we shield the ion trap from ambient light and only allow the use of near-infrared lasers. Furthermore, we minimize the flux of atoms into the ion trap chamber. Long-term operation of our shielded trap led us to a regime of very low residual electric field drifts of less than 0.03 V/m per day.

id: 1305.6840
title: Optomechanics assisted with a qubit: From dissipative state preparation to many-body physics
authors: Anika C. Pflanzer, Oriol Romero-Isart, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033804 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6840
abstract: We propose and analyze nonlinear optomechanical protocols that can be implemented by adding a single atom to an optomechanical cavity. In particular, we show how to engineer the environment in order to dissipatively prepare the mechanical oscillator in a superposition of Fock states with fidelity close to one. Furthermore, we discuss how a single atom in a cavity with several mechanical oscillators can be exploited to realize nonlinear many-body physics by stroboscopically driving the mechanical oscillators. We show how to prepare non-classical many-body states by either applying coherent protocols or engineering dissipation. The analysis of the protocols is carried out using a perturbation theory for degenerate Liouvillians and numerical tools. Our results apply to other systems where a qubit is coupled to a mechanical oscillator via a bosonic mode, e.g., in cavity quantum electromechanics.

id: 1305.6849
title: Quantum walk in symmetric Cayley graph over $\Z_2^n$
authors: Ilnur Khuziev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6849
abstract: We show that the hitting time of the discrete quantum walk on a symmetric Cayley graph over $\Z_2^n $ from a vertex to its antipodal is polynomial in degree of the graph. We prove that returning time of quantum walk on a symmetric Cayley graph over $\Z_2^n $ is polynomial and the probability to hit is almost one. To prove it, we give a new estimation of Kravchuk coefficients. We give an example of a probabilistic polynomial algorithm that finds an antipodal vertex in symmetric Cayley graphs.

id: 1305.6860
title: Stationary quantum coherence and transport in disordered networks
authors: Bj?rn Witt, Florian Mintert
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6860
abstract: We examine the excitation transport across quantum networks that are continuously driven by a constant and incoherent light source. In particular we investigate the coherence properties of incoherently driven networks by employing recent tools from entanglement theory that enable a rigorous interpretation of coherence in the site basis. With these tools at hand we identify coherent delocalization of excitations over several sites to be a crucial prerequisite for highly efficient transport across networks driven by an incoherent source. These results are set into context with the latest discussion of the occurrence and role of coherence in light-harvesting complexes that are exposed to natural incoherent sun light.

id: 1305.6876
title: On a recent experiment seemingly violating quantum predictions
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6876
abstract: A disagreement of the empirical results with quantum mechanical predictions is pointed out in the experiment by M. Giustina et al. [arXiv:1212.0533].

id: 1305.6879
title: Quantum discord of SU(2) invariant states
authors: B. ?akmak, Z. Gedik
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 465302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6879
abstract: We have analytically calculated the quantum discord for a system composed of spin-$j$ and spin-1/2 subsystems possessing SU(2) symmetry. We have compared our results with the quantum discord of states having similar symmetries and seen that in our case amount of quantum discord is much higher. Moreover, using the well known entanglement properties of these states, we have also compared their quantum discord with entanglement. Although the system under consideration is separable nearly all throughout of its parameter space as $j$ increases, we have seen that discord content remains significantly large. Investigation of quantum discord in SU(2) invariant states may find application in quantum computation protocols that utilize quantum discord as a resource since they arise in many real physical systems.

id: 1305.6942
title: Observation of non-Markovian micro-mechanical Brownian motion
authors: S. Groeblacher, A. Trubarov, N. Prigge, M. Aspelmeyer, J. Eisert
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. Significantly extended the discussion of non-Markovianity, including new statements on the connection between non-Markovianity in the sense of a deviation from infinite divisibility of the dynamical map to properties of spectral densities of bosonic heat baths
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6942
abstract: At the heart of understanding the emergence of a classical world from quantum theory is the insight that all macroscopic quantum systems are to some extent coupled to an environment and hence are open systems. The associated loss of quantum coherence, i.e. decoherence, is also detrimental for quantum information processing applications. In contrast, properly engineered quantum noise can counteract decoherence and can even be used in robust quantum state generation. To exploit the detailed dynamics of a quantum system it is therefore crucial to obtain both good knowledge and control over its environment. An explicit modelling of the environment, however, may often not be possible. In this case, simplifying assumptions concerning the nature of the underlying quantum noise are being made that do not necessarily hold for real devices. Micro- and nano-mechanical resonators constitute prominent examples. They are now emerging as promising devices for quantum science. Because of their complex solid-state nature, the properties of their intrinsic decoherence mechanisms have been the subject of intense research for decades. Here we present a method to reconstruct the relevant properties of the environment, that is, its spectral density, of the centre of mass motion of a micro-mechanical oscillator. We observe a clear signature of non-Markovian Brownian motion, which is in contrast to the current paradigm to treat the thermal environment of mechanical quantum resonators as fully Markovian. The presented method, inspired by methods of system identification, can easily be transferred to other harmonic systems that are embedded in a complex environment, for example electronic or nuclear spin states in a solid state matrix. Our results also open up a route for mechanical quantum state engineering via coupling to unorthodox reservoirs.

id: 1305.6962
title: Mechanical resonators for storage and transfer of electrical and optical quantum states
authors: S. A. McGee, D. Meiser, C. A. Regal, K. W. Lehnert, M. J. Holland
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053818 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6962
abstract: We study an optomechanical system in which a microwave field and an optical field are coupled to a common mechanical resonator. We explore methods that use these mechanical resonators to store quantum mechanical states and to transduce states between the electromagnetic resonators from the perspective of the effect of mechanical decoherence. Besides being of fundamental interest, this coherent quantum state transfer could have important practical implications in the field of quantum information science, as it potentially allows one to overcome intrinsic limitations of both microwave and optical platforms. We discuss several state transfer protocols and study their transfer fidelity using a fully quantum mechanical model that utilizes quantum state-diffusion techniques. This work demonstrates that mechanical decoherence should not be an insurmountable obstacle in realizing high fidelity storage and transduction.

id: 1305.6965
title: Practical aspects of measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution
authors: Feihu Xu, Marcos Curty, Bing Qi, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 27 pages, 13 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics, 15, 113007, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6965
abstract: A novel protocol - measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) - removes all attacks from the detection system, the most vulnerable part in QKD implementations. In this paper, we present an analysis for practical aspects of MDI-QKD. To evaluate its performance, we study various error sources by developing a general system model. We find that MDI-QKD is highly practical and thus can be easily implemented with standard optical devices. Moreover, we present a simple analytical method with only two (general) decoy states for the finite decoy-state analysis. This method can be used directly by experimentalists to demonstrate MDI-QKD. By combining the system model with the finite decoy-state method, we present a general framework for the optimal choice of the intensities of the signal and decoy states. Furthermore, we consider a common situation, namely asymmetric MDI-QKD, in which the two quantum channels have different transmittances. We investigate its properties and discuss how to optimize its performance. Our work is of interest not only to experiments demonstrating MDI-QKD but also to other non-QKD experiments involving quantum interference.

id: 1305.6973
title: Lattice quantum codes and exotic topological phases of matter
authors: Jeongwan Haah
comments: PhD thesis. 200 pages. Based on arXiv:1011.3529, arXiv:1101.1962, arXiv:1105.4159, arXiv:1112.3252, arXiv:1204.1063. Appendix on commutative algebra
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6973
abstract: This thesis addresses whether it is possible to build a robust memory device for quantum information. A three-dimensional gapped lattice spin model is found which demonstrates for the first time that a reliable quantum memory at finite temperature is possible, at least to some extent. When quantum information is encoded into a highly entangled ground state of this model and subjected to thermal errors, the errors remain easily correctable for a long time without any active intervention, because a macroscopic energy barrier keeps the errors well localized. As a result, stored quantum information can be retrieved faithfully for a memory time which grows exponentially with the square of the inverse temperature. In contrast, for previously known types of topological quantum storage in three or fewer spatial dimensions the memory time scales exponentially with the inverse temperature, rather than its square. This spin model exhibits a previously unexpected topological quantum order, in which ground states are locally indistinguishable, pointlike excitations are immobile, and the immobility is not affected by small perturbations of the Hamiltonian. The degeneracy of the ground state, though also insensitive to perturbations, is a complicated number-theoretic function of the system size, and the system bifurcates into multiple noninteracting copies of itself under real-space renormalization group transformations. The degeneracy, the excitations, and the renormalization group flow can be analyzed using a framework that exploits the spin model's symmetry and some associated free resolutions of modules over polynomial algebras.

id: 1305.6994
title: Collective resonances in $¦Ö^{(3)}$; a QED study
authors: Konstantin E. Dorfman, Shaul Mukamel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6994
abstract: We calculate the third order susceptibility $\chi^{(3)}$ of a pair of 2 level atoms which interact via the exchange of photons. QED corrections to second order in coupling to vacuum field modes yield collective two photon absorption resonances which can be observed in transmission spectroscopy of shaped broadband pulses. While some collective effects can be obtained by introducing an effective interatomic coupling using a quantum master equation, the predicted signals contain clear features that are missed by that level of theory and require a full diagrammatic QED treatment.

id: 1305.7009
title: Minimal state-dependent proof of measurement contextuality for a qubit
authors: Ravi Kunjwal, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042118 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7009
abstract: We show that three unsharp binary qubit measurements are enough to violate a generalized noncontextuality inequality, the LSW inequality, in a state-dependent manner. For the case of trine spin axes we calculate the optimal quantum violation of this inequality. Besides, we show that unsharp qubit measurements do not allow a state-independent violation of this inequality. We thus provide a minimal state-dependent proof of measurement contextuality requiring one qubit and three unsharp measurements. Our result rules out generalized noncontextual models of these measurements which were previously conjectured to exist. More importantly, this class of generalized noncontextual models includes the traditional Kochen-Specker (KS) noncontextual models as a proper subset, so our result rules out a larger class of models than those ruled out by a violation of the corresponding KS-inequality in this scenario.

id: 1305.7026
title: Time-evolution of entanglement and quantum discord of bipartite systems subject to 1/f^¦Á noise
authors: Claudia Benedetti, Matteo G.A. Paris, Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1212.1484 Proceedings of International Conference on Noise and Fluctuation 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7026
abstract: We study the dynamics of quantum correlations for two non interacting qubits initially prepared in a maximally entangled state and then coupled with an external environment characterized by a noise spectrum of the form 1/f^{\alpha}. The noise spectrum is due to the interaction of each qubit with a collection of N_f classical fluctuators with fixed switching rates. We find that, depending on the characteristic of the noise spectrum considered, both entanglement and quantum discord display either a monotonic decay or the phenomena of sudden death and revivals.

id: 1305.7083
title: Density Operator Description of Atomic Ordered Spatial Modes in Cavity QED
authors: Zhen Fang, Baoguo Yang, Xuzong Chen, Xiaoji Zhou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7083
abstract: We present a quantum Monte-Carlo simulation for a pumped atom in a strong coupling cavity with dissipation, where two ordered spatial modes are formed for the atomic probability density, with the peaks distributed either only in the odd sites or only in the even ones of the lattice formed by the cavity field. A mixed state density operator model, which describes the coupling between different atomic spatial modes and the corresponding cavity field components, is proposed, which goes beyond the pure state interpretation. We develop a new decomposition treatment to derive the atomic spatial modes as well as the cavity field statistics from the simulation results for the steady state. With this treatment, we also investigate the dynamical process for the probabilities of the atomic spatial modes in the adiabatic limit. According to the analysis of the fitting error between the simulation results and the density operator model, the latter is a good description for the system.

id: 1305.7102
title: Realising high-dimensional quantum entanglement with orbital angular momentum
authors: Melanie McLaren, Filippus S. Roux, Andrew Forbes
comments: 27 pages, 16 figures, tutorial
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7102
abstract: We report the first quantum entanglement experiment in South Africa. The spatial modes of the entangled photon pair are investigated with their potential for high-dimensional entanglement. The generation, measurement and characterisation of the entangled states are examined in detail, where we show high-dimensional entanglement in a Hilbert space of dimension 25. We highlight the experimental challenges contained within each step and provide practical techniques for future experiments in the quantum regime.

id: 1305.7135
title: Input-output theory for waveguide QED with an ensemble of inhomogeneous atoms
authors: Kevin Lalumi¨¨re, Barry C. Sanders, Arjan F. van Loo, Arkady Fedorov, Andreas Wallraff, Alexandre Blais
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043806 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7135
abstract: We study the collective effects that emerge in waveguide quantum electrodynamics where several (artificial) atoms are coupled to a one-dimensional superconducting transmission line. Since single microwave photons can travel without loss for a long distance along the line, real and virtual photons emitted by one atom can be reabsorbed or scattered by a second atom. Depending on the distance between the atoms, this collective effect can lead to super- and subradiance or to a coherent exchange-type interaction between the atoms. Changing the artificial atoms transition frequencies, something which can be easily done with superconducting qubits (two levels artificial atoms), is equivalent to changing the atom-atom separation and thereby opens the possibility to study the characteristics of these collective effects. To study this waveguide quantum electrodynamics system, we extend previous work and present an effective master equation valid for an ensemble of inhomogeneous atoms driven by a coherent state. Using input-output theory, we compute analytically and numerically the elastic and inelastic scattering and show how these quantities reveal information about collective effects. These theoretical results are compatible with recent experimental results using transmon qubits coupled to a superconducting one-dimensional transmission line [A.~F.~van Loo {\it et al.}].

id: 1305.7154
title: Colloquium: Understanding Quantum Weak Values: Basics and Applications
authors: Justin Dressel, Mehul Malik, Filippo M. Miatto, Andrew N. Jordan, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 86, 307 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7154
abstract: Since its introduction 25 years ago, the quantum weak value has gradually transitioned from a theoretical curiosity to a practical laboratory tool. While its utility is apparent in the recent explosion of weak value experiments, its interpretation has historically been a subject of confusion. Here a pragmatic introduction to the weak value in terms of measurable quantities is presented, along with an explanation for how it can be determined in the laboratory. Further, its application to three distinct experimental techniques is reviewed. First, as a large interaction parameter it can amplify small signals above technical background noise. Second, as a measurable complex value it enables novel techniques for direct quantum state and geometric phase determination. Third, as a conditioned average of generalized observable eigenvalues it provides a measurable window into nonclassical features of quantum mechanics. In this selective review, a single experimental configuration to discuss and clarify each of these applications is used.

id: 1305.7156
title: Joint probability densities of level spacing ratios in random matrices
authors: Y. Y. Atas, E. Bogomolny, O. Giraud, P. Vivo, E. Vivo
comments: 20 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 355204 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7156
abstract: We calculate analytically, for finite-size matrices, joint probability densities of ratios of level spacings in ensembles of random matrices characterized by their associated confining potential. We focus on the ratios of two spacings between three consecutive real eigenvalues, as well as certain generalizations such as the overlapping ratios. The resulting formulas are further analyzed in detail in two specific cases: the beta-Hermite and the beta-Laguerre cases, for which we offer explicit calculations for small N. The analytical results are in excellent agreement with numerical simulations of usual random matrix ensembles, and with the level statistics of a quantum many-body lattice model and zeros of the Riemann zeta function.

id: 1305.7160
title: Mean-field approximation for a Bose-Hubbard dimer with complex interaction strength
authors: Eva-Maria Graefe, Chiara Liverani
comments: 18 pages three figures; partly rewritten, additional material and references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7160
abstract: In the limit of large particle numbers and low densities systems of cold atoms can be effectively described as macroscopic single particle systems in a mean-field approximation. In the case of a Bose-Hubbard system, modelling bosons on a discrete lattice with on-site interactions, this yields a discrete nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation of Gross-Pitaevskii type. It has been recently shown that the correspondence between the Gross-Pitaevskii equation and the Bose-Hubbard system breaks down for complex extensions. In particular, for a Bose-Hubbard dimer with complex on-site energy the mean-field approximation yields a generalised complex nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation. Conversely, a Gross-Pitaevskii equation with complex on-site energies arises as the mean-field approximation of many-particle Lindblad dynamics rather than a complex extension of the Bose-Hubbard system. Here we address the question of how the mean-field description is modified in the presence of a complex-valued particle interaction term for a Bose-Hubbard dimer. We derive the mean-field equations of motion leading to nonlinear dissipative Bloch dynamics, related to a nontrivial complex generalisation of the nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation. The resulting dynamics are analysed in detail. It is shown that depending on the parameter values there can be up to six stationary states, and for small values of the interaction strength there are limit cycles. Furthermore, we show how a Gross-Pitaevskii equation with a complex interaction term can be derived as the mean-field approximation of a Bose-Hubbard dimer with an additional Lindblad term modelling two-particle losses.

id: 1305.7188
title: A semi-classical versus quantum description of the ground state of three-level atoms interacting with a one-mode electromagnetic field
authors: S. Cordero, O. Casta?os, R. L¨®pez-Pe?a, E. Nahmad-Achar
comments: 28 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 505302 (25pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7188
abstract: We consider $N_a$ three-level atoms (or systems) interacting with a one-mode electromagnetic field in the dipolar and rotating wave approximations. The order of the quantum phase transitions is determined explicitly for each of the configurations $\Xi$, $\Lambda$ and $V$, with and without detuning. The semi-classical and exact quantum calculations for both the expectation values of the total number of excitations $\cal{M}=\langle \bm{M} \rangle$ and photon number $n=\langle \bm{n} \rangle$ have an excellent correspondence as functions of the control parameters. We prove that the ground state of the collective regime obeys sub-Poissonian statistics for the ${\cal M}$ and $n$ distribution functions. Therefore, their corresponding fluctuations are not well described by the semiclassical approximation. We show that this can be corrected by projecting the variational state to a definite value of ${\cal M}$.

id: 1305.7251
title: Violation of Heisenberg's error-disturbance uncertainty relation in neutron spin measurements
authors: Georg Sulyok, Stephan Sponar, Jacqueline Erhart, Gerald Badurek, Masanao Ozawa, Yuji Hasegawa
comments: 17 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7251
abstract: In its original formulation, Heisenberg's uncertainty principle dealt with the relationship between the error of a quantum measurement and the thereby induced disturbance on the measured object. Meanwhile, Heisenberg's heuristic arguments have turned out to be correct only for special cases. A new universally valid relation was derived by Ozawa in 2003. Here, we demonstrate that Ozawa's predictions hold for projective neutron-spin measurements. The experimental inaccessibility of error and disturbance claimed elsewhere has been overcome using a tomographic method. By a systematic variation of experimental parameters in the entire configuration space, the physical behavior of error and disturbance for projective spin-1/2 measurements is illustrated comprehensively. The violation of Heisenberg's original relation, as well as, the validity of Ozawa's relation become manifest. In addition, our results conclude that the widespread assumption of a reciprocal relation between error and disturbance is not valid in general.

id: 1305.7267
title: A charged particle Talbot-Lau interferometer and magnetic field sensing
authors: Roger Bach, Glen Gronniger, Herman Batelaan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7267
abstract: We present the first demonstration of a three grating Talbot-Lau interferometer for electrons. As a proof of principle, the interferometer is used to measure magnetic fields. The device is similar to the classical Moire deflectometer. The possibility to extend this work to build a scaled-up charged particle deflectometer or interferometer for sensitive magnetic field sensing is indicated.

id: 1305.7268
title: Fundamental quantum interferometry bound for the squeezed-light-enhanced gravitational-wave detector GEO600
authors: Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Konrad Banaszek, Roman Schnabel
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 041802(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7268
abstract: The fundamental quantum interferometry bound limits the sensitivity of an interferometer for a given total rate of photons and for a given decoherence rate inside the measurement device.We theoretically show that the recently reported quantum-noise limited sensitivity of the squeezed-light-enhanced gravitational-wave detector GEO600 is exceedingly close to this bound, given the present amount of optical loss. Furthermore, our result proves that the employed combination of a bright coherent state and a squeezed vacuum state is generally the optimum practical approach for phase estimation with high precision on absolute scales. Based on our analysis we conclude that neither the application of Fock states nor N00N states or any other sophisticated nonclassical quantum states would have yielded an appreciably higher quantum-noise limited sensitivity.

id: 1305.7270
title: Observing single quantum trajectories of a superconducting qubit
authors: K. W. Murch, S. J. Weber, C. Macklin, I. Siddiqi
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nature 502, 211 (10 October 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7270
abstract: The length of time that a quantum system can exist in a superposition state is determined by how strongly it interacts with its environment. This interaction entangles the quantum state with the inherent fluctuations of the environment. If these fluctuations are not measured, the environment can be viewed as a source of noise, causing random evolution of the quantum system from an initially pure state into a statistical mixture-a process known as decoherence. However, by accurately measuring the environment in real time, the quantum system can be maintained in a pure state and its time evolution described by a quantum trajectory conditioned on the measurement outcome. We employ weak measurements to monitor a microwave cavity embedding a superconducting qubit and track the individual quantum trajectories of the system. In this architecture, the environment is dominated by the fluctuations of a single electromagnetic mode of the cavity. Using a near-quantum-limited parametric amplifier, we selectively measure either the phase or amplitude of the cavity field, and thereby confine trajectories to either the equator or a meridian of the Bloch sphere. We perform quantum state tomography at discrete times along the trajectory to verify that we have faithfully tracked the state of the quantum system as it diffuses on the surface of the Bloch sphere. Our results demonstrate that decoherence can be mitigated by environmental monitoring and validate the foundations of quantum feedback approaches based on Bayesian statistics. Moreover, our experiments suggest a new route for implementing what Schrodinger termed "quantum steering"-harnessing action at a distance to manipulate quantum states via measurement.

id: 1305.7278
title: Integrated spatial multiplexing of heralded single photon sources
authors: Matthew J. Collins, Chunle Xiong, Isabella H. Rey, Trung D. Vo, Jiakun He, Shayan Shahnia, Christopher Reardon, M. J. Steel, Thomas F. Krauss, Alex S. Clark, Benjamin J. Eggleton
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, comments welcome
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2582 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7278
abstract: The non-deterministic nature of photon sources is a key limitation for single photon quantum processors. Spatial multiplexing overcomes this by enhancing the heralded single photon yield without enhancing the output noise. Here the intrinsic statistical limit of an individual source is surpassed by spatially multiplexing two monolithic silicon correlated photon pair sources, demonstrating a 62.4% increase in the heralded single photon output without an increase in unwanted multi-pair generation. We further demonstrate the scalability of this scheme by multiplexing photons generated in two waveguides pumped via an integrated coupler with a 63.1% increase in the heralded photon rate. This demonstration paves the way for a scalable architecture for multiplexing many photon sources in a compact integrated platform and achieving efficient two photon interference, required at the core of optical quantum computing and quantum communication protocols.

id: 1305.7322
title: Quantum phase space functions and relations of entropic localisation measures
authors: Kedar S. Ranade
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7322
abstract: The concept of quantum phase space offers a view on quantum mechanics, which is different from the standard Hilbert space approach, but which more closely resembles the classical phase space. Due to the properties of quantum mechanics there are several equivalent quantum phase space descriptions, and one cannot always prefer one or another as they all have certain merits and drawbacks. For example, the Husimi-Kano Q function is a probability distribution and thus gives rise to entropic quantities, namely the Renyi-Wehrl entropies, of which several properties are known. The Wigner function, on the other hand, has an easier physical explanation, but may take negative values. In this article, we investigate entropic measures of localisation for a state in quantum phase space by using the Beckner-Brascamp-Lieb inequality to relate different phase-space functions.

id: 1305.7396
title: Practical decoy-state measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution
authors: Shi-Hai Sun, Ming Gao, Chun-Yan Li, Lin-Mei Liang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 052329 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7396
abstract: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD) is immune to all the detection attacks; thus when it is combined with the decoy-state method, the final key is unconditionally secure, even if a practical weak coherent source is used by Alice and Bob. However, until now, the analysis of decoy-state MDI-QKD with a weak coherent source is incomplete. In this paper, we derive, with only vacuum+weak decoy state, some tight formulas to estimate the lower bound of yield and the upper bound of error rate for the fraction of signals in which both Alice and Bob send a single-photon pulse to the untrusted third party Charlie. The numerical simulations show that our method with only vacuum+weak decoy state can asymptotically approach the theoretical limit of the infinite number of decoy states. Furthermore, the statistical fluctuation due to the finite length of date is also considered based on the standard statistical analysis.

id: 1305.7398
title: The maximally entangled set of multipartite quantum states
authors: Julio I. de Vicente, Cornelia Spee, Barbara Kraus
comments: 10 pages (5 pages + appendix)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 110502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7398
abstract: Entanglement is a resource in quantum information theory when state manipulation is restricted to Local Operations assisted by Classical Communication (LOCC). It is therefore of paramount importance to decide which LOCC transformations are possible and, particularly, which states are maximally useful under this restriction. While the bipartite maximally entangled state is well known (it is the only state that cannot be obtained from any other and, at the same time, it can be transformed to any other by LOCC), no such state exists in the multipartite case. In order to cope with this fact, we introduce here the notion of the Maximally Entangled Set (MES) of n-partite states. This is the set of states which are maximally useful under LOCC manipulation, i.e. any state outside of this set can be obtained via LOCC from one of the states within the set and no state in the set can be obtained from any other state via LOCC. We determine the MES for states of three and four qubits and provide a simple characterization for them. In both cases, infinitely many states are required. However, while the MES is of measure zero for 3-qubit states, almost all 4-qubit states are in the MES. This is because, in contrast to the 3-qubit case, deterministic LOCC transformations are almost never possible among fully entangled four-partite states. We determine the measure-zero subset of the MES of LOCC convertible states. This is the only relevant class of states for entanglement manipulation.

id: 1305.7401
title: Detection and Characterisation of Multipartite Quantum Entanglement
authors: Andreas Gabriel
comments: PhD Thesis, 132 pages, 18 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7401
abstract: The research field of quantum entanglement theory is comparatively new. While a basic understanding of the most simple systems in question (i.e. bipartite systems) has been established over the past few decades, multipartite entanglement still holds many unsolved questions and intriguing riddles. In particular, it is completely unclear how several concepts from the bipartite case can be generalised in a meaningful way to multipartite scenarios. In this work, the main issues of multipartite entanglement detection, characterisation and classification are discussed. The differences and similarities between the bipartite and the multipartite situation are reviewed, various possible generalisations are presented and results are obtained in several areas. The focus of this work particularly lies on a formalism - the so called HMGH framework, which has been developed and expanded for the past several years - which allows for construction of very specific separability criteria, capable of discriminating between different kinds of multipartite entanglement. By means of these criteria, the questions of partial separability, genuine multipartite entanglement and - ultimately - multipartite entanglement classification (which appear to contain the most striking differences to bipartite entanglement) are adressed and discussed. In order to illustrate the theoretical conclusions in these respects, several examples are given from different (and differently closely related) fields, showing the capabilities, strengths and weaknesses of the HMGH framework as well as giving insights into the current status of research in multipartite entanglement theory as a whole.

id: 1305.7436
title: Spectral Singularities and Whispering Gallery Modes of a Cylindrical Gain Medium
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh, Mustafa Sarisaman
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, 3 tables; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063834 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7436
abstract: Complex scattering potentials can admit scattering states that behave exactly like a zero-width resonance. Their energy is what mathematicians call a spectral singularity. This phenomenon admits optical realizations in the form of lasing at the threshold gain, and its time-reversal is responsible for antilasing. We study spectral singularities and whispering gallery modes (WGMs) of a cylindrical gain medium. In particular, we introduce a new class of WGMs that support a spectral singularity and, as a result, have a divergent quality factor. These singular gallery modes (SGMs) are excited only if the system has a positive gain coefficient, but typically the required gain is extremely small. More importantly given any amount of gain, there are SGMs requiring smaller gain than this amount. This means that, in principle, the system lacks a lasing threshold. Furthermore, the abundance of these modes allows for configurations where a particular value of the gain coefficient yields an effective excitation of two distant SGMs. This induces lasing at two different wavelengths.

id: 1305.7446
title: Cluster state generation with ageing qubits
authors: Joshua M. Waddington, Joshua A. Kettlewell, Pieter Kok
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7446
abstract: Cluster states for measurement-based quantum computing can be created with entangling operations of arbitrary low success probability. This will place a lower bound on the minimum lifetime of the qubits used in the implementation. Here, we present a simple scaling argument for the T2 time of the qubits for various cluster state geometries, and we estimate the size of the qubit reservoir that is needed for the creation of mini-clusters.

id: 1305.7472
title: Simultaneous quantum state exchange or transfer between two sets of cavities and generation of multiple Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs via a superconducting coupler qubit
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Qi-Ping Su, Shi-Biao Zheng, Siyuan Han
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7472
abstract: We propose an approach to simultaneously perform quantum state exchange or transfer between two sets of cavities, each containing $N$ cavities, by using only one superconducting coupler qubit. The quantum states to be exchanged or transferred can be arbitrary pure or mixed states and entangled or nonentangled. The operation time does not increase with the number of cavities, and there is no need of applying classic pulses during the entire operation. Moreover, the approach can be also applied to realize quantum state exchange or transfer between two sets of qubits, such as that between two multi-qubit quantum registers. We further show that the present proposal can be used to simultaneously generate multiple Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs of photons or qubits, which are important in quantum communication. The method can be generalized to other systems by using different types of physical qubit as a coupler to accomplish the same task.

id: 1305.7489
title: Universal Entanglers for Bosonic and Fermionic Systems
authors: Joel Klassen, Jianxin Chen, Bei Zeng
comments: 15 pages, comments welcome, TQC2013 Accepted Talk
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7489
abstract: A universal entangler (UE) is a unitary operation which maps all pure product states to entangled states. It is known that for a bipartite system of particles $1,2$ with a Hilbert space $\mathbb{C}^{d_1}\otimes\mathbb{C}^{d_2}$, a UE exists when $\min{(d_1,d_2)}\geq 3$ and $(d_1,d_2)\neq (3,3)$. It is also known that whenever a UE exists, almost all unitaries are UEs; however to verify whether a given unitary is a UE is very difficult since solving a quadratic system of equations is NP-hard in general. This work examines the existence and construction of UEs of bipartite bosonic/fermionic systems whose wave functions sit in the symmetric/antisymmetric subspace of $\mathbb{C}^{d}\otimes\mathbb{C}^{d}$. The development of a theory of UEs for these types of systems needs considerably different approaches from that used for UEs of distinguishable systems. This is because the general entanglement of identical particle systems cannot be discussed in the usual way due to the effect of (anti)-symmetrization which introduces "pseudo entanglement" that is inaccessible in practice. We show that, unlike the distinguishable particle case, UEs exist for bosonic/fermionic systems with Hilbert spaces which are symmetric (resp. antisymmetric) subspaces of $\mathbb{C}^{d}\otimes\mathbb{C}^{d}$ if and only if $d\geq 3$ (resp. $d\geq 8$). To prove this we employ algebraic geometry to reason about the different algebraic structures of the bosonic/fermionic systems. Additionally, due to the relatively simple coherent state form of unentangled bosonic states, we are able to give the explicit constructions of two bosonic UEs. Our investigation provides insight into the entanglement properties of systems of indisitinguishable particles, and in particular underscores the difference between the entanglement structures of bosonic, fermionic and distinguishable particle systems.

id: 1305.7490
title: A review on super dense coding over covariant noisy channels
authors: Zahra Shadman, Hermann Kampermann, Chiara Macchiavello, Dagmar Bruss
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1107.3591
journal: Quantum Measurements and Quantum Metrology, Volume 1, pp. 21-33 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7490
abstract: We study the performance of the super dense coding protocol in the presence of quantum channels with covariant noise. We first consider the bipartite case and review in a unified way the case of general Pauli channels. We discuss both the cases of unitary and non-unitary encoding. We also study the multipartite scenario and investigate the case of many senders and one receiver.

id: 1305.7506
title: Enhanced hyperfine-induced spin dephasing in a magnetic-field gradient
authors: F¨¦lix Beaudoin, W. A. Coish
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 085320 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7506
abstract: Magnetic-field gradients are important for single-site addressability and electric-dipole spin resonance of spin qubits in semiconductor devices. We show that these advantages are offset by a potential reduction in coherence time due to the non-uniformity of the magnetic field experienced by a nuclear-spin bath interacting with the spin qubit. We theoretically study spins confined to quantum dots or at single donor impurities, considering both free-induction and spin-echo decay. For quantum dots in GaAs, we find that, in a realistic setting, a magnetic-field gradient can reduce the Hahn-echo coherence time by almost an order of magnitude. This problem can, however, be resolved by applying a moderate external magnetic field to enter a motional averaging regime. For quantum dots in silicon, we predict a cross-over from non-Markovian to Markovian behavior that is unique to these devices. Finally, for very small systems such as single phosphorus donors in silicon, we predict a breakdown of the common Gaussian approximation due to finite-size effects.

id: 1305.0036
title: GPU accelerated Trotter-Suzuki solver for quantum spin dynamics
authors: Axel D. Dente, Carlos S. Bederi¨¢n, Pablo R. Zangara, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Computer Physics Communications
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0036
abstract: The resolution of dynamics in out of equilibrium quantum spin systems lies at the heart of fundamental questions among Quantum Information Processing, Statistical Mechanics and Nano-Technologies. Efficient computational simulations of interacting many-spin systems are extremely valuable tools for tackling such questions. Here, we use the Trotter-Suzuki (TS) algorithm, a well-known strategy that provides the evolution of quantum systems, to address the spin dynamics. We present a GPU implementation of a particular TS version, which has been previously implemented on single cores in CPUs. We develop a massive parallel version of this algorithm and compare the efficiency between CPU and GPU implementations. This method reduces the execution time considerably and is capable of dealing with systems of up to 27 spins (only limited by GPU memory).

id: 1305.0114
title: Realizing Universal Majorana Fermionic Quantum Computation
authors: Ya-Jie Wu, Jing He, Su-Peng Kou
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0114
abstract: Majorana-fermionic quantum computation (MFQC) was proposed by Bravyi and Kitaev (See Ref.\cite{Kitaev}), in which a fault-torrent (non-topological) quantum computer built from Majorana fermions may be more efficient than that built from distinguishable two-state systems. However, till now people don't know how to realize a MFQC in a physical system. In this paper we proposed a possible realization of MFQC. We find that the end of a line-defect of p-wave superconductor or superfluid on a honeycomb lattice will trap a Majorana zero mode, which will become the starting point of MFQC. Then we show how to manipulate Majorana fermions to do universal MFQC, which possesses unique possibilities for high-level local controllability, individual addressing, and readout of the quantum states of individual constituent elements by using timely cold-atom technology.

id: 1305.0204
title: Design of a Lambda system for population transfer in superconducting nanocircuits
authors: G. Falci, A. La Cognata, M. Berritta, A. D'Arrigo, E. Paladino, B. Spagnolo
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0204
abstract: The implementation of a Lambda scheme in superconducting artificial atoms could allow detec- tion of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) and other quantum manipulations in the microwave regime. However symmetries which on one hand protect the system against decoherence, yield selection rules which may cancel coupling to the pump external drive. The tradeoff between efficient coupling and decoherence due to broad-band colored Noise (BBCN), which is often the main source of decoherence is addressed, in the class of nanodevices based on the Cooper pair box (CPB) design. We study transfer efficiency by STIRAP, showing that substantial efficiency is achieved for off-symmetric bias only in the charge-phase regime. We find a number of results uniquely due to non-Markovianity of BBCN, namely: (a) the efficiency for STIRAP depends essentially on noise channels in the trapped subspace; (b) low-frequency fluctuations can be analyzed and represented as fictitious correlated fluctuations of the detunings of the external drives; (c) a simple figure of merit for design and operating prescriptions allowing the observation of STIRAP is proposed. The emerging physical picture also applies to other classes of coherent nanodevices subject to BBCN.

id: 1305.0238
title: FIT-MART: Quantum Magnetism with a Gentle Learning Curve
authors: Larry Engelhardt, Scott C. Garland, Cameron Rainey, Ray A. Freeman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0238
abstract: We present a new open-source software package, FIT-MART, that allows non-experts to quickly get started simulating quantum magnetism. FIT-MART can be downloaded as a platform-idependent executable Java (JAR) file. It allows the user to define (Heisenberg) Hamiltonians by electronically drawing pictures that represent quantum spins and operators. Sliders are automatically generated to control the values of the parameters in the model, and when the values change, several plots are updated in real time to display both the resulting energy spectra and the equilibruim magnetic properties. Several experimental data sets for real magnetic molecules are included in FIT-MART to allow easy comparison between simulated and experimental data, and FIT-MART users can also import their own data for analysis and compare the goodness of fit for different models.

id: 1305.0468
title: Stationary behaviour of observables after a quantum quench in the spin-1/2 Heisenberg XXZ chain
authors: Maurizio Fagotti, Fabian H.L. Essler
comments: 14 pages, 1 table, minor changes
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P07012
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0468
abstract: We consider a quantum quench in the spin-1/2 Heisenberg XXZ chain. At late times after the quench it is believed that the expectation values of local operators approach time-independent values, that are described by a generalized Gibbs ensemble. Employing a quantum transfer matrix approach we show how to determine short-range correlation functions in such generalized Gibbs ensembles for a class of initial states.

id: 1305.0488
title: Disorder-induced valley-orbit hybrid states in Si quantum dots
authors: John King Gamble, M. A. Eriksson, S. N. Coppersmith, Mark Friesen
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 035310 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0488
abstract: Quantum dots in silicon are promising candidates for implementation of solid-state quantum information processing. It is important to understand the effects of the multiple conduction band valleys of silicon on the properties of these devices. Here we introduce a novel, systematic effective mass theory of valley-orbit coupling in disordered silicon systems. This theory reveals valley-orbit hybridization effects that are detrimental for storing quantum information in the valley degree of freedom, including non-vanishing dipole matrix elements between valley states and altered intervalley tunneling.

id: 1305.0556
title: A quantum teleportation inspired algorithm produces sentence meaning from word meaning and grammatical structure
authors: Stephen Clark, Bob Coecke, Edward Grefenstette, Stephen Pulman, Mehrnoosh Sadrzadeh
comments: 10 pages, many pictures
journal: 
subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0556
abstract: We discuss an algorithm which produces the meaning of a sentence given meanings of its words, and its resemblance to quantum teleportation. In fact, this protocol was the main source of inspiration for this algorithm which has many applications in the area of Natural Language Processing.

id: 1305.0568
title: Classifying and measuring the geometry of the quantum ground state manifold
authors: Michael Kolodrubetz, Vladimir Gritsev, Anatoli Polkovnikov
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures Updated to include more thorough analysis of 2D and 3D curvature
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 064304 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0568
abstract: From the Aharonov-Bohm effect to general relativity, geometry plays a central role in modern physics. In quantum mechanics many physical processes depend on the Berry curvature. However, recent advances in quantum information theory have highlighted the role of its symmetric counterpart, the quantum metric tensor. In this paper, we perform a detailed analysis of the ground state Riemannian geometry induced by the metric tensor, using the quantum XY chain in a transverse field as our primary example. We focus on a particular geometric invariant -- the Gaussian curvature -- and show how both integrals of the curvature within a given phase and singularities of the curvature near phase transitions are protected by critical scaling theory. For cases where the curvature is integrable, we show that the integrated curvature provides a new geometric invariant, which like the Chern number characterizes individual phases of matter. For cases where the curvature is singular, we classify three types -- integrable, conical, and curvature singularities -- and detail situations where each type of singularity should arise. Finally, to connect this abstract geometry to experiment, we discuss three different methods for measuring the metric tensor, namely via integrating a properly weighted noise spectral function and by using leading order responses of the work distribution to ramps and quenches in quantum many-body systems.

id: 1305.0667
title: Magnetic dipole and electric quadrupole moments of the 229Th nucleus
authors: M. S. Safronova, U. I. Safronova, A. G. Radnaev, C. J. Campbell, A. Kuzmich
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0667
abstract: We calculate the A and B hyperfine constants for the low-lying states of 229Th3+ using a high-precision relativistic all-order approach. By combining these calculations with measurements of the 6d and 5f hyperfine constants [C. J. Campbell et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 223001 (2011)], we determine the magnetic dipole \mu=0.360(7)\mu_B and the electric-quadrupole Q=3.11(6) eb moments of the 229Th nucleus. Our value for \mu is five times more accurate and is 22% smaller than the best previous value \mu=0.46(4) \mu_B [S. Gerstenkorn et al., J. Phys. (Paris) 35, 483 (1974)], while our value for Q is the same, but 2.5 times more accurate than the 2011 result. A systematic study of hyperfine structure in eight other monovalent atoms supports our claim of 2% level uncertainty for $\mu$ and Q in 229Th+3.

id: 1305.0712
title: Field-dependent BRST transformations in Yang-Mills theory
authors: Peter M. Lavrov, Olaf Lechtenfeld
comments: 1+7 pages; v2: ref.[10] replaced by new one, explicit solution (4.6) added, published version
journal: Phys. Lett. B 725 (2013) 382-385
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0712
abstract: We find an explicit form for the Jacobian of arbitrary field-dependent BRST transformations in Yang-Mills theory. For the functional-integral representation of the (gauge-fixed) Yang-Mills vacuum functional, such transformations merely amount to a precise change in the gauge-fixing functional. This proves the independence of the vacuum functional under any field-dependent BRST transformation. We also give a formula for the transformation parameter functional which generates a prescribed change of gauge and evaluate it for connecting two arbitrary R_xi gauges.

id: 1305.0749
title: Noise-Protected Gate for Six-Electron Double-Dot Qubits
authors: Sebastian Mehl, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 161408 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0749
abstract: Singlet-triplet spin qubits in six-electron double quantum dots, in moderate magnetic fields, can show superior immunity to charge noise. This immunity results from the symmetry of orbitals in the second energy shell of circular quantum dots: singlet and triplet states in this shell have identical charge distributions. Our phase-gate simulations, which include $1/f$ charge noise from fluctuating traps, show that this symmetry is most effectively exploited if the gate operation switches rapidly between sweet spots deep in the (3,3) and (4,2) charge stability regions; fidelities very close to one are predicted if subnanosecond switching can be performed.

id: 1305.0784
title: Semiclassical wave-packets emerging from interaction with an environment
authors: Carla Recchia, Alessandro Teta
comments: 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0784
abstract: We study the quantum evolution in dimension three of a system composed by a test particle interacting with an environment made of $N$ harmonic oscillators. At time zero the test particle is described by a spherical wave, i.e. a highly correlated continuous superposition of states with well localized position and momentum, and the oscillators are in the ground state. Under suitable assumptions on the physical parameters characterizing the model, we give an asymptotic expression of the solution of the Schr\"odinger equation of the system with an explicit control of the error. The result shows that the approximate expression of the wave function is the sum of two terms, orthogonal in $L^2(\erre^{3(N+1)})$ and describing rather different situations. In the first one all the oscillators remain in their ground state and the test particle is described by the free evolution of a slightly deformed spherical wave. The second one consists of a sum of $N$ terms where in each term there is only one excited oscillator and the test particle is correspondingly described by the free evolution of a wave packet, well concentrated in position and momentum. Moreover the wave packet emerges from the excited oscillator with an average momentum parallel to the line joining the oscillator with the center of the initial spherical wave. Such wave packet represents a semiclassical state for the test particle, propagating along the corresponding classical trajectory. The main result of our analysis is to show how such a semiclassical state can be produced, starting from the original spherical wave, as a result of the interaction with the environment.

id: 1305.0858
title: Precision Measurement Method for Branching Fractions of Excited P1/2 States Applied to 40Ca+
authors: Michael Ramm, Thaned Pruttivarasin, Mark Kokish, Ishan Talukdar, Hartmut H?ffner
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 023004 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.0858
abstract: We present a method for measuring branching fractions for the decay of $J = 1/2$ atomic energy levels to lower-lying states based on time-resolved recording of the atom's fluorescence during a series of population transfers. We apply this method to measure the branching fractions for the decay of the 4$^{2}$P$_{1/2}$ state of $^{40}$\Ca to the 4$^{2}$S$_{1/2}$ and 3$^{2}$D$_{3/2}$ states to be \branching\ and \branchingsm, respectively. The measurement scheme requires that at least one of the lower-lying states be long-lived. The method is insensitive to fluctuations in laser light intensity and magnetic field and is readily applicable to various atomic species due to its simplicity. Our result distinguishes well among existing state-of-the-art theoretical models of \Ca.

id: 1305.1020
title: Channel capacities via $p$-summing norms
authors: Marius Junge, Carlos Palazuelos
comments: V2: Some proofs have been explained in more detail. New references added. Same results
journal: Adv. Math. 272, 350-398 (2015)
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1020
abstract: In this paper we show how \emph{the metric theory of tensor products} developed by Grothendieck perfectly fits in the study of channel capacities, a central topic in \emph{Shannon's information theory}. Furthermore, in the last years Shannon's theory has been generalized to the quantum setting to let the \emph{quantum information theory} step in. In this paper we consider the classical capacity of quantum channels with restricted assisted entanglement. In particular these capacities include the classical capacity and the unlimited entanglement-assisted classical capacity of a quantum channel. To deal with the quantum case we will use the noncommutative version of $p$-summing maps. More precisely, we prove that the (product state) classical capacity of a quantum channel with restricted assisted entanglement can be expressed as the derivative of a completely $p$-summing norm.

id: 1305.1025
title: Symplectic and Hamiltonian Deformations of Gabor Frames
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1025
abstract: We study symplectic deformations of Gabor frames using the covariance properties of the Heisenberg operators. This allows us to recover in a very simple way known results. We thereafter propose a general deformation scheme by Hamiltonian isotopies, which are paths of Hamiltonian flows. We define and study in detail a weak notion of Hamiltonian deformations, using ideas from semiclassical analysis due to Heller and Hagedorn. This method can be easily implemented using symplectic integrators.

id: 1305.1077
title: Femtojoule-scale all-optical latching and modulation via cavity nonlinear optics
authors: Yeong-Dae Kwon, Michael A. Armen, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Supplemental Information included as ancillary file
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1077
abstract: We experimentally characterize Hopf bifurcation phenomena at femtojoule energy scales in a multi-atom cavity quantum electrodynamical (cavity QED) system, and demonstrate how such behaviors can be exploited in the design of all-optical memory and modulation devices. The data are analyzed using a semiclassical model that explicitly treats heterogeneous coupling of atoms to the cavity mode. Our results highlight the interest of cavity QED systems for ultra-low power photonic signal processing as well as for fundamental studies of mesoscopic nonlinear dynamics.

id: 1305.1239
title: Universal behavior of the Shannon mutual information of critical quantum chains
authors: F. C. Alcaraz, M. A. Rajabpour
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 017201 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1239
abstract: We consider the Shannon mutual information of subsystems of critical quantum chains in their ground states. Our results indicate a universal leading behavior for large subsystem sizes. Moreover, as happens with the entanglement entropy, its finite-size behavior yields the conformal anomaly $c$ of the underlying conformal field theory governing the long distance physics of the quantum chain. We studied analytically a chain of coupled harmonic oscillators and numerically the Q-state Potts models ($Q = 2$; 3 and 4), the XXZ quantum chain and the spin-1 Fateev-Zamolodchikov model. The Shannon mutual information is a quantity easily computed, and our results indicate that for relatively small lattice sizes its finite-size behavior already detects the universality class of quantum critical behavior.

id: 1305.1244
title: Evidence of several dipolar quasi-invariants in Liquid Crystals
authors: C.J. Bonin, C.E. Gonz¨¢lez, H.H. Segnorile, R. C. Zamar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1244
abstract: In a closed quantum system of N coupled spins with magnetic quantum number I, there are about (2I + 1)^N constants of motion. However, the possibility of observing such quasi-invariant (QI) states in solid-like spin systems in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) is not a strictly exact prediction. The aim of this work is to provide experimental evidence of several QI, in the proton NMR of small spin clusters, besides those already known Zeeman, and dipolar orders (strong and weak). We explore the spin states prepared with the Jeener-Broekaert pulse sequence by analyzing the time-domain signals yielded by this sequence as a function of the preparation times, in a variety of dipolar networks. We observe that the signals can be explained with two dipolar QIs only within a range of short preparation times. At longer times the time-domain signals have an echo-like behaviour. We study their multiple quantum coherence content on a basis orthogonal to the z-basis and see that such states involve a significant number of correlated spins. Then we show that the whole preparation time-scale can only be reconstructed by assuming the occurrence of multiple QI which we isolate experimentally.

id: 1305.1301
title: Spontaneous emissions and thermalization of cold bosons in optical lattices
authors: Johannes Schachenmayer, Lode Pollet, Matthias Troyer, Andrew John Daley
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 011601 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1301
abstract: We study the thermalization of excitations generated by spontaneous emission events for cold bosons in an optical lattice. Computing the dynamics described by the many-body master equation, we characterize equilibration timescales in different parameter regimes. For simple observables, we find regimes in which the system relaxes rapidly to values in agreement with a thermal distribution, and others where thermalization does not occur on typical experimental timescales. Because spontaneous emissions lead effectively to a local quantum quench, this behavior is strongly dependent on the low-energy spectrum of the Hamiltonian, and undergoes a qualitative change at the Mott Insulator-superfluid transition point. These results have important implications for the understanding of thermalization after localized quenches in isolated quantum gases, as well as the characterization of heating in experiments.

id: 1305.1323
title: Enhanced violation of a Leggett-Garg inequality under nonequilibrium thermal conditions
authors: Juan C. Castillo, Ferney J. Rodr¨ªguez, Luis Quiroga
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures. Extended version as published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022104 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1323
abstract: We investigate both analytically and numerically violations of a Leggett-Garg inequality (LGI) for a composite quantum system in contact with two separate reservoirs at different temperatures. Remarkably we find that LGI violations can be enhanced when a heat current is established at low temperatures in a steady-state regime. Based on a Kraus operator decomposition of the non-unitary evolution for a system formed by two interacting spins or quantum bits, we provide analytical support for power law relations between dissipation strength and mean temperature in the borderlines separating parameter regions where non-equilibrium conditions affect differently the maximal LGI violation. Furthermore, a correspondence between spatial and temporal correlation inequalities is shown to persist even in such nonequilibrium thermal settings.

id: 1305.1353
title: Subdiffraction-limited quantum imaging within a living cell
authors: Michael A. Taylor, Jiri Janousek, Vincent Daria, Joachim Knittel, Boris Hage, Hans-A. Bachor, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 011017 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1353
abstract: We report both sub-diffraction-limited quantum metrology and quantum enhanced spatial resolution for the first time in a biological context. Nanoparticles are tracked with quantum correlated light as they diffuse through an extended region of a living cell in a quantum enhanced photonic force microscope. This allows spatial structure within the cell to be mapped at length scales down to 10 nm. Control experiments in water show a 14% resolution enhancement compared to experiments with coherent light. Our results confirm the longstanding prediction that quantum correlated light can enhance spatial resolution at the nanoscale and in biology. Combined with state-of-the-art quantum light sources, this technique provides a path towards an order of magnitude improvement in resolution over similar classical imaging techniques.

id: 1305.1387
title: Spatial distribution of optically induced atomic excitation in a dense and cold atomic ensemble
authors: Ya. A. Fofanov, A. S. Kuraptsev, I. M. Sokolov, M. D. Havey
comments: Submitted to Physical Review A (2013). See also JETP 112, 246 (2011)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 063839 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1387
abstract: On the basis of our general theoretical results developed previously in JETP 112, 246 (2011), we calculate the spatial distribution of atoms excited in a dense and cold atomic cloud by weak monochromatic light. We also study the atomic distribution over different Zeeman sublevels of the excited state in different parts of the cloud. The dependence of this distribution of atomic excitation on the density of the atomic ensemble and the frequency of external emission is investigated. We show that in the boundary regions of the cloud the orientation and alignment of atomic angular momentum takes place. Analysis of the spatial distribution of atomic excitation shows no noticeable signs of light localization effects even in those parameter regimes where the Ioffe-Regel criterium of strong localization is satisfied. However, comparative calculations performed in the framework of the scalar approximation to the dipole-dipole interaction reveals explicit manifestation of strong localization under some conditions.

id: 1305.1458
title: Non-linear absorption and density dependent dephasing in Rydberg EIT-media
authors: Martin G?rttner, J?rg Evers
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033417 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1458
abstract: Light propagation through an ensemble of ultra-cold Rydberg atoms in electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) configuration is studied. In strongly interacting Rydberg EIT media, non-linear optical effects lead to a non-trivial dependence of the degree of probe beam attenuation on the medium density and on its initial intensity. We develop a Monte Carlo rate equation model that self-consistently includes the effect of the probe beam attenuation to investigate the steady state of the Rydberg medium driven by two laser fields. We compare our results to recent experimental data and to results of other state-of-the-art models for light propagation in Rydberg EIT-media. We find that for low probe field intensities, our results match the experimental data best if a density-dependent dephasing rate is included in the model. At higher probe intensities, our model deviates from other theoretical approaches, as it predicts a spectral asymmetry together with line broadening. These are likely due to off-resonant excitation channels, which however have not been observed in recent experiments. Atomic motion and coupling to additional Rydberg levels are discussed as possible origins for these deviations.

id: 1305.1469
title: Entanglement generation in microcavity polariton devices
authors: L. Einkemmer, Z. V?r?s, G. Weihs, S. Portolan
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1469
abstract: Entanglement generation in microcavity exciton-polaritons is an interesting application of the peculiar properties of these half-light/half-matter quasiparticles. In this paper we theoretically investigate their luminescence dynamics and entanglement formation in single, double, and triple cavities. We derive general expressions and selection rules for polariton-polariton scattering. We evaluate a number of possible parametric scattering schemes in terms of entanglement, and identify the ones that are experimentally most promising.

id: 1305.1482
title: Entanglement in quantum impurity problems is non perturbative
authors: Hubert Saleur, Peter Schmitteckert, Romain Vasseur
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures. v3: minor post-publication footnote added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 085413 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1482
abstract: We study the entanglement entropy of a region of length 2L with the remainder of an infinite one dimensional gapless quantum system in the case where the region is centered on a quantum impurity. The coupling to this impurity is not scale invariant, and the physics involves a crossover between weak and strong coupling regimes. While the impurity contribution to the entanglement has been computed numerically in the past, little is known analytically about it, since in particular the methods of conformal invariance cannot be applied because of the presence of a crossover length. We show in this paper that the small coupling expansion of the entanglement entropy in this problem is quite generally plagued by strong infrared divergences, implying a non-perturbative dependence on the coupling. The large coupling expansion turns out to be better behaved, thanks to powerful results from the boundary CFT formulation and, in some cases, the underlying integrability of the problem. However, it is clear that this expansion does not capture well the crossover physics. In the integrable case -- which includes problems such as an XXZ chain with a modified link, the interacting resonant level model or the anisotropic Kondo model -- a non perturbative approach is in principle possible using form-factors. We adapt in this paper the ideas of [1,2] to the gapless case and show that, in the rather simple case of the resonant level model, and after some additional renormalizations, the form factors approach yields remarkably accurate results for the entanglement all the way from short to large distances. This is confirmed by detailed comparison with numerical simulations. Both our form factor and numerical results are compatible with a non-perturbative form at short distance.

id: 1305.1498
title: The covariant, time-dependent Aharonov-Bohm Effect
authors: Douglas Singleton, Elias C. Vagenas
comments: 11 pages, no figures, journal version, three added references
journal: Phys.Lett. B723 (2013) 241-244
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1498
abstract: We discuss two possible covariant generalizations of the Aharonov-Bohm effect - one expression in terms of the space-time line integral of the four-vector potential and the other expression in terms of the space-time "area" integral of the electric and magnetic fields written in terms of the Faraday 2-form. These expressions allow one to calculate the Aharonov-Bohm effect for time-dependent situations. In particular, we use these expressions to study the case of an infinite solenoid with a time varying flux and find that the phase shift is zero due to a cancellation of the Aharonov-Bohm phase shift with a phase shift coming from the Lorentz force associated with the electric field, ${\bf E} = - \partial_t {\bf A}$, outside the solenoid. This result may already have been confirmed experimentally.

id: 1305.1515
title: Observation of nitrogen vacancy photoluminescence from an optically levitated nanodiamond
authors: Levi P. Neukirch, Jan Gieseler, Romain Quidant, Lukas Novotny, A. Nick Vamivakas
comments: Updated to published version appearing in Optics Letters
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 38, Issue 16, 2976-2979 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1515
abstract: We present the first evidence of nitrogen vacancy (NV) photoluminescence from a nanodiamond suspended in a free-space optical dipole trap at atmospheric pressure. The photoluminescence rates are shown to decrease with increasing trap laser power, but are inconsistent with a thermal quenching process. For a continuous-wave trap, the neutral charge state (NV$^0$) appears to be suppressed. Chopping the trap laser yields higher total count rates and results in a mixture of both NV$^0$ and the negative charge state (NV$^-$).

id: 1305.1524
title: Pseudospin symmetry in single particle resonances in spherical square wells
authors: Bing-Nan Lu, En-Guang Zhao, Shan-Gui Zhou
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures; due to the limitation "The abstract field cannot be longer than 1,920 characters", the abstract appearing here is slightly shorter than that in the PDF file; Phys. Rev. C, in press
journal: Phys. Rev. C88 (2013) 024323-11
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1524
abstract: The pseudospin symmetry (PSS) has been studied extensively for bound states. Recently we justified rigorously that the PSS in single particle resonant states is exactly conserved when the attractive scalar and repulsive vector potentials of the Dirac Hamiltonian have the same magnitude but opposite sign [PRL 109, 072501 (2012)]. To understand more deeply the PSS, we focus on several issues related to the exact conservation and breaking mechanism of the PSS in single particle resonances. In particular, we are interested in how the energy and width splittings of PS partners depend on the depth of the scalar and vector potentials. We investigate the asymptotic behaviors of radial Dirac wave functions. Spherical square well potentials are employed in which the PSS breaking part in the Jost function can be well isolated. By examining the zeros of Jost functions corresponding to small components of the radial Dirac wave functions, general properties of the PSS are analyzed. By examining the Jost function, the occurrence of intruder orbitals is explained and it is possible to trace continuously the PSS partners from the PSS limit to the case with a finite potential depth. The dependence of the PSS in resonances as well as in bound states on the potential depth is investigated systematically. We find a threshold effect in the energy splitting and an anomaly in the width splitting of pseudospin partners when the depth of the single particle potential varies from zero to a finite value. The conservation and the breaking of the PSS in resonant states and bound states share some similar properties. The appearance of intruder states can be explained by examining the zeros of Jost functions. Origins of the threshold effect in the energy splitting and the anomaly in the width splitting of PS partners, together with many other problems, are still open and should be further investigated.

id: 1305.1536
title: High-Resolution Correlation Spectroscopy of 13C Spins Near a Nitrogen-Vacancy Center in Diamond
authors: Abdelghani Laraoui, Florian Dolde, Christian Burk, Friedemann Reinhard, J?rg Wrachtrup, Carlos A. Meriles
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 4, 1651 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1536
abstract: Spin complexes comprising the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center and neighboring spins are being considered as a building block for a new generation of spintronic and quantum information processing devices. Because assembling identical spin clusters is difficult, new strategies are in order to determine individual node structures with the highest precision. Here we use a pulse protocol to monitor the time evolution of the 13C ensemble in the vicinity of a NV center. We observe long-lived time correlations in the nuclear spin dynamics, limited by NV spin-lattice relaxation. We use the host 14N spin as a quantum register, and demonstrate that hyperfine-shifted resonances can be separated upon proper NV initialization. Intriguingly, we find that the amplitude of the correlation signal exhibits a sharp dependence on the applied magnetic field. We discuss this observation in the context of the quantum-to-classical transition proposed recently to explain the field dependence of the spin cluster dynamics.

id: 1305.1567
title: Almost one bit violation for the additivity of the minimum output entropy
authors: Serban T. Belinschi, Benoit Collins, Ion Nechita
comments: v3: appendix replaced by Lemma 3.8
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1567
abstract: In a previous paper, we proved that the limit of the collection of possible eigenvalues of output states of a random quantum channel is a deterministic, compact set K_{k,t}. We also showed that the set K_{k,t} is obtained, up to an intersection, as the unit ball of the dual of a free compression norm. In this paper, we identify the maximum of l^p norms on the set K_{k,t} and prove that the maximum is attained on a vector of shape (a,b,...,b) where a > b. In particular, we compute the precise limit value of the minimum output entropy of a single random quantum channel. As a corollary, we show that for any eps > 0, it is possible to obtain a violation for the additivity of the minimum output entropy for an output dimension as low as 183, and that for appropriate choice of parameters, the violation can be as large as log 2 - eps. Conversely, our result implies that, with probability one, one does not obtain a violation of additivity using conjugate random quantum channels and the Bell state, in dimension 182 and less.

id: 1305.1589
title: Coherent tunnelling across a quantum point contact in the quantum Hall regime
authors: F. Martins, S. Faniel, B. Rosenow, H. Sellier, S. Huant, M. G. Pala, L. Desplanque, X. Wallart, V. Bayot, B. Hackens
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3 : 1416 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1589
abstract: The unique properties of quantum Hall devices arise from the ideal one-dimensional edge states that form in a two-dimensional electron system at high magnetic field. Tunnelling between edge states across a quantum point contact (QPC) has already revealed rich physics, like fractionally charged excitations, or chiral Luttinger liquid. Thanks to scanning gate microscopy, we show that a single QPC can turn into an interferometer for specific potential landscapes. Spectroscopy, magnetic field and temperature dependences of electron transport reveal a quantitatively consistent interferometric behavior of the studied QPC. To explain this unexpected behavior, we put forward a new model which relies on the presence of a quantum Hall island at the centre of the constriction as well as on different tunnelling paths surrounding the island, thereby creating a new type of interferometer. This work sets the ground for new device concepts based on coherent tunnelling.

id: 1305.1599
title: Realistic Filter Cavities for Advanced Gravitational Wave Detectors
authors: M. Evans, L. Barsotti, J. Harms, P. Kwee, H. Miao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1599
abstract: The ongoing global effort to detect gravitational waves continues to push the limits of precision measurement while aiming to provide a new tool for understanding both astrophysics and fundamental physics. Squeezed states of light offer a proven means of increasing the sensitivity of gravitational wave detectors, potentially increasing the rate at which astrophysical sources are detected by more than an order of magnitude. Since radiation pressure noise plays an important role in advanced detectors, frequency dependent squeezing will be required. In this paper we propose a practical approach to producing frequency dependent squeezing for Advanced LIGO and similar interferometric gravitational wave detectors.

id: 1305.1661
title: Scanning Gate Spectroscopy of transport across a Quantum Hall Nano-Island
authors: F. Martins, S. Faniel, B. Rosenow, M. G. Pala, H. Sellier, S. Huant, L. Desplanque, X. Wallart, V. Bayot, B. Hackens
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 013049 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1661
abstract: We explore transport across an ultra-small Quantum Hall Island (QHI) formed by closed quan- tum Hall edge states and connected to propagating edge channels through tunnel barriers. Scanning gate microscopy and scanning gate spectroscopy are used to first localize and then study a single QHI near a quantum point contact. The presence of Coulomb diamonds in the spectroscopy con- firms that Coulomb blockade governs transport across the QHI. Varying the microscope tip bias as well as current bias across the device, we uncover the QHI discrete energy spectrum arising from electronic confinement and we extract estimates of the gradient of the confining potential and of the edge state velocity.

id: 1305.1689
title: Supersymmetry-generated complex optical potentials with real spectra
authors: Mohammad-Ali Miri, Matthias Heinrich, Demetrios N. Christodoulides
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043819 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1689
abstract: We show that the formalism of supersymmetry (SUSY), when applied to parity-time (PT) symmetric optical potentials, can give rise to novel refractive index landscapes with altogether non-trivial properties. In particular, we find that the presence of gain and loss allows for arbitrarily removing bound states from the spectrum of a structure. This is in stark contrast to the Hermitian case, where the SUSY formalism can only address the fundamental mode of a potential. Subsequently we investigate isospectral families of complex potentials that exhibit entirely real spectra, despite the fact that their shapes violate PT-symmetry. Finally, the role of SUSY transformations in the regime of spontaneously broken PT symmetry is investigated.

id: 1305.1700
title: Multi-axis inertial sensing with long-time point source atom interferometry
authors: Susannah M. Dickerson, Jason M. Hogan, Alex Sugarbaker, David M. S. Johnson, Mark A. Kasevich
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1700
abstract: We show that light-pulse atom interferometry with atomic point sources and spatially resolved detection enables multi-axis (two rotation, one acceleration) precision inertial sensing at long interrogation times. Using this method, we demonstrate a light-pulse atom interferometer for Rb-87 with 1.4 cm peak wavepacket separation and a duration of 2T = 2.3 seconds. The inferred acceleration sensitivity of each shot is 6.7 * 10^(-12) g, which improves on previous limits by more than two orders of magnitude. We also measure the Earth's rotation rate with a precision of 200 nrad/s.

id: 1305.1722
title: One-dimensional quantum walks via generating function and the CGMV method
authors: Norio Konno, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure
journal: Quantum Information and Computations 14 (2014) pp.1165-1186
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1722
abstract: We treat a quantum walk (QW) on the line whose quantum coin at each vertex tends to be the identity as the distance goes to infinity. We obtain a limit theorem that this QW exhibits localization with not an exponential but a "power-law" decay around the origin and a "strongly" ballistic spreading called bottom localization in this paper. This limit theorem implies the weak convergence with linear scaling whose density has two delta measures at $x=0$ (the origin) and $x=1$ (the bottom) without continuous parts.

id: 1305.1761
title: The Thouless theorem for matrix product states and subsequent post-density matrix renormalization group methods
authors: Sebastian Wouters, Naoki Nakatani, Dimitri Van Neck, Garnet Kin-Lic Chan
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures and 1 table
journal: Physical Review B 88, 075122 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1761
abstract: The similarities between Hartree-Fock (HF) theory and the density-matrix renormalization group (DMRG) are explored. Both methods can be formulated as the variational optimization of a wave-function ansatz. Linearization of the time-dependent variational principle near a variational minimum allows to derive the random phase approximation (RPA). We show that the non-redundant parametrization of the matrix product state (MPS) tangent space [J. Haegeman et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 070601 (2011)] leads to the Thouless theorem for MPS, i.e. an explicit non-redundant parametrization of the entire MPS manifold, starting from a specific MPS reference. Excitation operators are identified, which extends the analogy between HF and DMRG to the Tamm-Dancoff approximation (TDA), the configuration interaction (CI) expansion, and coupled cluster theory. For a small one-dimensional Hubbard chain, we use a CI-MPS ansatz with single and double excitations to improve on the ground state and to calculate low-lying excitation energies. For a symmetry-broken ground state of this model, we show that RPA-MPS allows to retrieve the Goldstone mode. We also discuss calculations of the RPA-MPS correlation energy. With the long-range quantum chemical Pariser-Parr-Pople Hamiltonian, low-lying TDA-MPS and RPA-MPS excitation energies for polyenes are obtained.

id: 1305.1768
title: Entanglement as an indicator of a geometrical crossover in a two-electron quantum dot in a magnetic field
authors: R. G. Nazmitdinov, N. S. Simonovic
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1112.3473
journal: JETP Letters, vol.97 (2013) 199
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1768
abstract: We found that a downwardly concave entanglement evolution of the ground state of a two-electron axially symmetric quantum dot testifies that a shape transition from a lateral to a vertical localization of two electrons under a perpendicular magnetic field takes place. Although affected, the two-electron probability density does not exhibit any prominent change.

id: 1305.1792
title: Reflection Positivity for Majoranas
authors: Arthur Jaffe, Fabio L. Pedrocchi
comments: 13 pages
journal: Ann. Henri Poincar\'e 16, 189-203 (2015)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1792
abstract: We establish reflection positivity for Gibbs trace states defined by a certain class of Hamiltonians that describe the interaction of Majoranas on a lattice. These Hamiltonians may include many-body interactions, as long as the signs of the associated coupling constants satisfy certain restrictions. We show that reflection positivity holds on an even subalgebra of Majoranas.

id: 1305.1793
title: Optical non-reciprocity of cold atom Bragg mirrors in motion
authors: S. A. R. Horsley, J.-H. Wu, M. Artoni, G. C. La Rocca
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1793
abstract: Reciprocity is fundamental to light transport and is a concept that holds also in rather complex systems. Yet, reciprocity can be switched off even in linear, isotropic and passive media by setting the material structure into motion. In highly dispersive multilayers this leads to a fairly large forward-backward asymmetry in the pulse transmission. Moreover, in multilevel systems, this transport phenomenon can be all-optically enhanced. For atomic multilayer structures made of three-level cold Rubidium 87 atoms, for instance, forward-backward transmission contrast around 95 per cent can be obtained already at atomic speeds in the meter per second range. The scheme we illustrate may open up avenues for optical isolation that were not previously accessible.

id: 1305.1800
title: Phase Space Crystals: A New Way to Create a Quasienergy Band Structure
authors: Lingzhen Guo, Michael Marthaler, Gerd Sch?n
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 205303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1800
abstract: A novel way to create a band structure of the quasienergy spectrum for driven systems is proposed based on the discrete symmetry in phase space. The system, e.g., an ion or ultracold atom trapped in a potential, shows no spatial periodicity, but it is driven by a time-dependent field coupling highly nonlinearly to one of its degrees of freedom (e.g., ~ q^n). The band structure in quasienergy arises as a consequence of the n-fold discrete periodicity in phase space induced by this driving field. We propose an explicit model to realize such a phase space crystal and analyze its band structure in the frame of a tight-binding approximation. The phase space crystal opens new ways to engineer energy band structures, with the added advantage that its properties can be changed in situ by tuning the driving field's parameters.

id: 1305.1834
title: Two-dimensional intra-band solitons in lattice potentials with local defects and self-focusing nonlinearity
authors: Jianhua Zeng, Boris A. Malomed
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, Journal of the Optical Society of America B, in press
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1834
abstract: It is commonly known that stable bright solitons in periodic potentials, which represent gratings in photonics/plasmonics, or optical lattices in quantum gases, exist either in the spectral semi-infinite gap (SIG) or in finite bandgaps. Using numerical methods, we demonstrate that, under the action of the cubic self-focusing nonlinearity, defects in the form of "holes" in two-dimensional (2D) lattices support continuous families of 2D solitons \textit{embedded} into the first two Bloch bands of the respective linear spectrum, where solitons normally do not exist. The two families of the \textit{embedded defect solitons} (EDSs) are found to be continuously linked by the branch of \textit{gap defect solitons} (GDSs) populating the first finite bandgap. Further, the EDS branch traversing the first band links the GDS family with the branch of regular defect-supported solitons populating the SIG. Thus, we construct a continuous chain of regular, embedded, and gap-mode solitons ("superfamily") threading the entire bandgap structure considered here. The EDSs are stable in the first Bloch band, and partly stable in the second. They exist with the norm exceeding a minimum value, hence they do not originate from linear defect modes. Further, we demonstrate that double, triple and quadruple lattice defects support stable dipole-mode solitons and vortices.

id: 1305.1993
title: Classical and quantum flux energy conditions for quantum vacuum states
authors: Prado Martin-Moruno, Matt Visser
comments: V1: 4 pages. V2: 5 pages. Some changes in presentation emphasizing necessary versus sufficient conditions. No changes in physics conclusions. V3: Change in title emphasizing the relevance of quantum vacuum states. Extra discussion regarding quantum vacuum states. Nine additional references, some updates. This version accepted for publication in PRD
journal: Physical Review D 88 (2013) 061701(R)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.1993
abstract: The classical energy conditions are known to not be fundamental physics -- they are typically violated by semiclassical quantum effects. Consequently, some effort has gone into finding possible semiclassical replacements for the classical energy conditions -- the most well developed being the Ford-Roman quantum inequalities. In the current article we shall instead develop classical and quantum versions of a "flux energy condition" (FEC and QFEC) based on the notion of constraining the possible fluxes measured by timelike observers. The naive classical FEC will be seen to be satisfied in some situations, and even for some quantum vacuum states, while its quantum analogue (the QFEC) is satisfied (for naturally defined quantum vacuum states) under a rather wide range of conditions. The situation for completely general (nonvacuum) quantum states is less clear.

id: 1305.2014
title: Quantum Confinement and Negative Heat Capacity
authors: Pablo Serra, Marcelo Carignano, Fahhad Alharbi, Sabre Kais
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2014
abstract: Thermodynamics dictates that the specific heat of a system is strictly non-negative. However, in finite classical systems there are well known theoretical and experimental cases where this rule is violated, in particular finite atomic clusters. Here, we show for the first time that negative heat capacity can also occur in finite quantum systems. The physical scenario on which this effect might be experimentally observed is discussed. Observing such an effect might lead to the design of new light harvesting nano devices, in particular a solar nano refrigerator.

id: 1305.2054
title: Quantum vacuum energies and Casimir forces between partially transparent $¦Ä$-function plates
authors: Jose M. Munoz-Castaneda, J. Mateos Guilarte, A. Moreno Mosquera
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 105020 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2054
abstract: In this paper the quantum vacuum energies induced by massive fluctuations of one real scalar field on a configuration of two partially transparent plates are analysed. The physical properties of the infinitely thin plates are characterized by two Dirac-$\delta$ potentials. We find that an attractive/repulsive Casimir force arises between the plates when the weights of the $\delta$'s have equal/different sign. If some of the plates absorbs fluctuations below some threshold of energy (the corresponding weight is negative) there is the need to set a minimum mass to the scalar field fluctuations to preserve unitarity in the corresponding quantum field theory. Two repulsive $\delta$-interactions are compatible with massless fluctuations. The effect of Dirichlet boundary conditions at the endpoints of the interval $(-a,a)$ on a massless scalar quantum field theory defined on this interval is tantamount letting the weights of the repulsive $\delta$-interactions to $+\infty$.

id: 1305.2081
title: Time-bin entangled photons from a quantum dot
authors: Harishankar Jayakumar, Ana Predojevi?, Thomas Kauten, Tobias Huber, Glenn S. Solomon, Gregor Weihs
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2081
abstract: Long distance quantum communication is one of the prime goals in the field of quantum information science. With information encoded in the quantum state of photons, existing telecommunication fiber networks can be effectively used as a transport medium. To achieve this goal, a source of robust entangled single photon pairs is required. While time-bin entanglement offers the required robustness, currently used parametric down-conversion sources have limited performance due to multi-pair contributions. We report the realization of a source of single time-bin entangled photon pairs utilizing the biexciton-exciton cascade in a III/V self-assembled quantum dot. We analyzed the generated photon pairs by an inherently phase-stable interferometry technique, facilitating uninterrupted long integration times. We confirmed the entanglement by performing a quantum state tomography of the emitted photons, which yielded a fidelity of 0.69(3) and a concurrence of 0.41(6).

id: 1305.2126
title: The singular and the 2:1 anisotropic Dunkl oscillators in the plane
authors: Vincent X. Genest, Luc Vinet, Alexei Zhedanov
comments: 22 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 325201
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2126
abstract: Two Dunkl oscillator models are considered: one singular and the other with a 2:1 frequency ratio. These models are defined by Hamiltonians which include the reflection operators in the two variables x and y. The singular or caged Dunkl oscillator is second-order superintegrable and admits separation of variables in both Cartesian and polar coordinates. The spectrum of the Hamiltonian is obtained algebraically and the separated wavefunctions are given in the terms of Jacobi, Laguerre and generalized Hermite polynomials. The symmetry generators are constructed from the su(1,1) dynamical operators of the one-dimensional model and generate a cubic symmetry algebra. In terms of the symmetries responsible for the separation of variables, the symmetry algebra of the singular Dunkl oscillator is quadratic and can be identified with a special case of the Askey-Wilson algebra AW(3) with central involutions. The 2:1 anisotropic Dunkl oscillator model is also second-order superintegrable. The energies of the system are obtained algebraically, the symmetry generators are constructed using the dynamical operators and the resulting symmetry algebra is quadratic. The general system appears to admit separation of variables only in Cartesian coordinates. Special cases where separation occurs in both Cartesian and parabolic coordinates are considered. In the latter case the wavefunctions satisfy the biconfluent Heun equation and depend on a transcendental separation constant.

id: 1305.2179
title: Shot-noise-limited spin measurements in a pulsed molecular beam
authors: E. Kirilov, W.C. Campbell, J.M. Doyle, G. Gabrielse, Y.V. Gurevich, P.W. Hess, N.R. Hutzler, B.R. O'Leary, E. Petrik, B. Spaun, A.C. Vutha, D. DeMille
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013844 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2179
abstract: Heavy diatomic molecules have been identified as good candidates for use in electron electric dipole moment (eEDM) searches. Suitable molecular species can be produced in pulsed beams, but with a total flux and/or temporal evolution that varies significantly from pulse to pulse. These variations can degrade the experimental sensitivity to changes in spin precession phase of an electri- cally polarized state, which is the observable of interest for an eEDM measurement. We present two methods for measurement of the phase that provide immunity to beam temporal variations, and make it possible to reach shot-noise-limited sensitivity. Each method employs rapid projection of the spin state onto both components of an orthonormal basis. We demonstrate both methods using the eEDM-sensitive H state of thorium monoxide (ThO), and use one of them to measure the magnetic moment of this state with increased accuracy relative to previous determinations.

id: 1305.2208
title: Spatial correlations of one dimensional driven-dissipative systems of Rydberg atoms
authors: Anzi Hu, Tony E. Lee, Charles W. Clark
comments: 6 pages,8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053627 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2208
abstract: We consider a one-dimensional lattice of atoms with laser excitation to a Rydberg state and spontaneous emission. The atoms are coupled due to the dipole-dipole interaction of the Rydberg states. This driven-dissipative system has a broad range of non-equilibrium phases, such as antiferromagnetic ordering and bistability. Using the quantum trajectory method, we calculate the spatial correlation function throughout the parameter space for up to 20 lattice sites. We show that bistability significantly strengthens the spatial correlations and entanglement.

id: 1305.2240
title: Finite temperature Casimir effect on spherical shells in (D+1)-dimensional spacetime and its high temperature limit
authors: L. P. Teo
comments: 28 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2240
abstract: We consider the finite temperature Casimir free energy acting on a spherical shell in (D+1)-dimensional Minkowski spacetime due to the vacuum fluctuations of scalar and electromagnetic fields. Dirichlet, Neumann, perfectly conducting and infinitely permeable boundary conditions are considered. The Casimir free energy is regularized using zeta functional regularization technique. To renormalize the Casimir free energy, we compute the heat kernel coefficients $c_n$, $0\leq n\leq D+1$, from the zeta function $\zeta(s)$. After renormalization, the high temperature leading term of the Casimir free energy is $-c_DT\ln T-T \zeta'(0)/2$. Explicit expressions for the renormalized Casimir free energy and $\zeta'(0)$ are derived. The dependence of the renormalized Casimir free energy on temperature is shown graphically.

id: 1305.2251
title: Quantum Image Representation Through Two-Dimensional Quantum States and Normalized Amplitude
authors: Madhur Srivastava, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2251
abstract: In this paper, we have proposed a novel method of image representation on quantum computers. The proposed method uses the two-dimensional quantum states to locate each pixel in an image matrix with the normalized amplitude values of the image signal being coefficients of the quantum states. The two-dimensional quantum states are linear superposition of outer product of m-qubits row-location vector and n-qubits column-location vector of each pixel location in the image matrix. In classical systems, these quantum states are two-dimensional binary matrices having 1 at the targeted pixel location and 0 at the other pixel locations. The fact that linear superposition, tensor product and qubits form the fundamental basis of quantum computing, the proposed method presents the machine level representation of images on quantum computers.

id: 1305.2309
title: Enhanced photocurrent readout for a quantum dot qubit by bias modulation
authors: J. H. Quilter, R. J. Coles, A. J. Ramsay, A. M. Fox, M. S. Skolnick
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Journal: Applied physics letters Volume: 102 Issue: 18 Page: 181108 year: 2013
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2309
abstract: We demonstrate coherent control of a quantum dot exciton using photocurrent detection with a sinusoidal reverse bias. Optical control is performed at low bias, where tunneling-limited coherence times are long. Following this step, the tunneling rates are increased to remove the long-lived hole, achieving a high photocurrent signal. For a detection efficiency of 68%, electron and hole tunneling times during optical control of 200 ps and 20 ns can be achieved, compared to 120 ps and 7 ns for the constant bias case, respectively.

id: 1305.2313
title: Accelerated Thermalisation of 39K atoms in a Magnetic Trap with Superimposed Optical Potential
authors: Dipankar Nath, R Kollengode Easwaran, G. Rajalakshmi, C.S. Unnikrishnan
comments: Submitted to Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 46 (2013) 155303
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2313
abstract: We report the rapid accelerated thermalisation of Potassium 39 K atoms loaded in a magnetic trap, in the presence of a single dipole trap beam. More than an order of magnitude reduction in the thermalisation time, to less than a second, is observed with the focused off- resonant beam occupying only 0.01% of the volume of the magnetic trap. The cold atoms are loaded from a Magneto-Optical Trap(MOT) of 39 K that has gone through a compressed MOT and sub-Doppler cooling stage. The atoms are prepared in the magnetically stretched |F = 2, mF = 2> state prior to loading into the hybrid trap. We also report a direct loading of 39 K atoms, prepared in the state |F = 1>, into a single beam dipole trap.

id: 1305.2316
title: Bound states of the spin-orbit coupled ultracold atom in a one-dimensional short-range potential
authors: Rytis Jursenas, Julius Ruseckas
comments: 4 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2316
abstract: We solve the bound state problem for the Hamiltonian with the spin-orbit and the Raman coupling included. The Hamiltonian is perturbed by a one-dimensional short-range potential V which describes the impurity scattering. In addition to the bound states obtained by considering weak solutions through the Fourier transform or by solving the eigenvalue equation on a suitable domain directly, it is shown that ordinary point-interaction representations of V lead to spin-orbit induced extra states.

id: 1305.2320
title: Quantum Reflection as a New Signature of Quantum Vacuum Nonlinearity
authors: Holger Gies, Felix Karbstein, Nico Seegert
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure; some clarifications added, matches journal version
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 083002
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2320
abstract: We show that photons subject to a spatially inhomogeneous electromagnetic field can experience quantum reflection. Based on this observation, we propose quantum reflection as a novel means to probe the nonlinearity of the quantum vacuum in the presence of strong electromagnetic fields.

id: 1305.2334
title: Quantum Entanglement on Boundaries
authors: Dmitri Fursaev
comments: 25 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2334
abstract: Quantum entanglement in 3 spatial dimensions is studied in systems with physical boundaries when an entangling surface intersects the boundary. We show that there are universal logarithmic boundary terms in the entanglement R\'{e}nyi entropy and derive them for different conformal field theories and geometrical configurations. The paper covers such topics as spectral geometry on manifolds with conical singularities crossing the boundaries, the dependence of the entanglement entropy on mutual position of the boundary and the entangling surface, effects of acceleration and rotation of the boundary, relations of coefficients in the trace anomaly to coefficients in the boundary logarithmic terms in the entropy. The computations are done for scalar, spinor and gauge fields.

id: 1305.2435
title: A few algebraic problems in the theory of quantum entanglement
authors: ?ukasz Skowronek
comments: The author's PhD thesis
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2435
abstract: We present solutions to a set of problems that arise in quantum entanglement theory, whose common trait is the use of algebraic methods. The backbone of the thesis consists of two general theorems, pertaining to specific convex sets of quantum maps. They are complemented by solutions of many more specific problems of rather technical character. These problems concerned questions such as the higher rank numerical ranges, the lengths of separable states, the solutions of compression equations, the completely entangled subspaces, and maximally entangled states. The solutions were obtained partly by hand, and partly by using the Groebner basis toolset available in computer algebra systems. The main results, which are those of general nature, consist of a characterization of mapping cones, which is a full analogue of the positive maps criterion for separability, as well as of a full characterization of positive-partial-transpose entangled states of minimum rank. The thesis also contains an introduction to the theory of quantum entanglement and to basic algebraic geometry, whose methods have been used

id: 1305.2441
title: Superhorizon entanglement entropy from particle decay in inflation
authors: Louis Lello, Daniel Boyanovsky, Richard Holman
comments: discussion on wave packets and cascade decay, 18 pages, 3 figs
journal: JHEP04,055 (2014)
subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2441
abstract: In inflationary cosmology all particle states decay as a consequence of the lack of kinematic thresholds. The decay of an initial single particle state yields an \emph{entangled quantum state of the product particles}. We generalize and extend a manifestly unitary field theoretical method to obtain the time evolution of the quantum state. We consider the decay of a light scalar field with mass $M\ll H$ with a cubic coupling in de Sitter space-time. Radiative corrections feature an infrared enhancement manifest as poles in $\Delta=M^2/3H^2$ and we obtain the quantum state in an expansion in $\Delta$. To leading order in $\Delta$ the pure state density matrix describing the decay of a particle with sub-horizon wavevector is dominated by the emission of superhorizon quanta, describing \emph{entanglement between superhorizon and subhorizon fluctuations and correlations across the horizon}. Tracing over the superhorizon degrees of freedom yields a mixed state density matrix from which we obtain the entanglement entropy. Asymptotically this entropy grows with the \emph{physical} volume as a consequence of more modes of the decay products crossing the Hubble radius. A generalization to localized wave packets is provided. The cascade decay of single particle states into many particle states is discussed. We conjecture on \emph{possible} impact of these results on non-gaussianity and on the ``low multipole anomalies'' of the CMB.

id: 1305.2443
title: Spin dynamics in a spin-orbit coupled Fermi gas
authors: Stefan S. Natu, S. Das Sarma
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures Expanded to include discussion of dynamics in the presence of a Zeeman field, rewritten section with interactions
journal: Physical Review A 88 033613 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2443
abstract: We study the dynamics of a non-degenerate, harmonically trapped Fermi gas following a sudden ramp of the spin-orbit coupling strength. In the non-interacting limit, we solve the Boltzmann equation in the presence of spin orbit coupling analytically, and derive expressions for the dynamics of an arbitrary initial spin state. In particular we show that for a fully spin polarized initial state, the total magnetization exhibits collapse and revival dynamics in time with a period set by the trapping potential. In real space, this corresponds to oscillations between a fully polarized state and a spin helix. We numerically study the effect of interactions on the dynamics using a collisionless Boltzmann equation.

id: 1305.2450
title: Testing the Equivalence Principle with Unstable Particles
authors: Y. Bonder, E. Fischbach, H. Hernandez-Coronado, D.E. Krause, Z. Rohrbach, D. Sudarsky
comments: To match the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 125021 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2450
abstract: We develop a framework to test the Equivalence Principle (EP) under conditions where the quantum aspects of nature cannot be neglected, specifically in the context of interference phenomena with unstable particles. We derive the nonrelativistic quantum equation that describes the evolution of the wavefunction of unstable particles under the assumption of the validity of the EP and when small deviations are assumed to occur. As an example, we study the propagation of unstable particles in a COW experiment, and we briefly discuss the experimental implications of our formalism.

id: 1305.2577
title: Landau Levels of Scalar QED in Time-Dependent Magnetic Fields
authors: Sang Pyo Kim
comments: RevTex 9 pages, 1 figure; interpretation restricted to scalar QED
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2577
abstract: The Landau levels of scalar QED undergo continuous transitions under a homogeneous, time-dependent magnetic field. We analytically formulate the Klein-Gordon equation for a charged spinless scalar as a Cauchy initial value problem in the two-component first order formalism and then put forth a measure that classifies the quantum motions into the adiabatic change, the nonadiabatic change, and the sudden change. We find the exact quantum motion and calculate the pair-production rate when the magnetic field suddenly changes as a step function.

id: 1305.2579
title: Collective strong coupling in multimode cavity QED
authors: Arne Wickenbrock, Michal Hemmerling, Gordon R.M. Robb, Clive Emary, Ferruccio Renzoni
comments: Published in April 2013 in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 87, 043817 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2579
abstract: We study an atom-cavity system in which the cavity has several degenerate transverse modes. Mode-resolved cavity transmission spectroscopy reveals well-resolved atom-cavity resonances for several cavity modes, a signature of collective strong coupling for the different modes. Furthermore, the experiment shows that the cavity modes are coupled via the atomic ensemble contained in the cavity. The experimental observations are supported by a detailed theoretical analysis. The work paves the way to the use of interacting degenerate modes in cavity-based quantum information processing, where qubits corresponding to different cavity modes interact via an atom shared by the two modes. Our results are also relevant to the experimental realization of quantum spin glasses with ultracold atoms.

id: 1305.2615
title: Multidimensional high harmonic spectroscopy: A semi-classical perspective on measuring multielectron rearrangement upon ionization
authors: Valeria Serbinenko, Olga Smirnova
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. v. 46, p. 171001 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2615
abstract: High harmonic spectroscopy has the potential to combine attosecond temporal with sub-Angstrom spatial resolution of the early nuclear and multielectron dynamics in molecules. It involves strong field ionization of the molecule by the IR laser field followed by time-delayed recombination of the removed electron with the molecular ion. The time-delay is controlled on the attosecond time scale by the oscillation of the IR field and is mapped into the harmonic number, providing a movie of molecular dynamics between ionization and recombination. One of the challenges in the analysis of high harmonic signal stems from the fact that the complex dynamics of both ionization and recombination with their multiple observables are entangled in the harmonic signal. Disentangling this information requires multidimensional approach, capable of mapping ionization and recombination dynamics into different independent parameters. We suggest multidimensional high harmonic spectroscopy as a tool for characterizing of ionization and recombination processes separately allowing for simultaneous detection of both the ionization delays and sub-cycle ionization rates. Our method extends the capability of the two dimensional (2D) set-up suggested recently by Shafir et al on reconstructing ionization delays, while keeping the reconstruction procedure as simple as in the original proposal. The scheme is based on the optimization of the high harmonic signal in orthogonally polarized strong fundamental and relatively weak multicolour control fields.

id: 1305.2672
title: Low-Filling-Factor Superconducting Single Photon Detector with High System Detection Efficiency
authors: Taro Yamashita, Shigehito Miki, Hirotaka Terai, Zhen Wang
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Express Vol. 21, Issue 22, pp. 27177-27184 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2672
abstract: We designed, fabricated, and measured superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors (SSPDs) with low filling factor which achieve high system detection efficiency (SDE) and counting rate simultaneously. Numerical simulation reveals that high optical absorptance is possible in SSPDs even for low filing factor by tuning the device design. The SDEs of fabricated 18-50% filling factor SSPDs were measured systematically, and all SSPDs showed high SDEs of 61-80% and the lowest 18% filling factor SSPD achieved a high SDE of 69%.

id: 1305.2726
title: Hierarchical dynamics for system-bath coherence correlation spectrum
authors: Hou-Dao Zhang, Jian Xu, Rui-Xue Xu, Xiao Zheng, YiJing Yan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, submitted to J. Chem. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2726
abstract: We propose a quasi-particle description for the hierarchical equations of motion formalism for quantum dissipative dynamics systems. Not only it provides an alternative mathematical means to the existing formalism, the new protocol clarifies also explicitly the physical meanings of the auxiliary density operators and their relations to full statistics on solvation bath variables. Combining with the standard linear response theory, we construct further the hierarchical dynamics formalism for correlated spectrum of system--bath coherence. We evaluate the spectrum matrix for a demonstrative spin-boson system-bath model. While the individual diagonal element of the spectrum matrix describes the system or the solvation bath correlation, the off-diagonal elements characterize the correlation between system and bath solvation dynamics.

id: 1305.2817
title: Absence of exponential sensitivity to small perturbations in nonintegrable systems of spins 1/2
authors: Boris V. Fine, Tarek A. Elsayed, Chahan M. Kropf, Astrid S. de Wijn
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, minor changes, new references
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 012923 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2817
abstract: We show that macroscopic nonintegrable lattices of spins 1/2, which are often considered to be chaotic, do not exhibit the basic property of classical chaotic systems, namely, exponential sensitivity to small perturbations. We compare chaotic lattices of classical spins and nonintegrable lattices of spins 1/2 in terms of their magnetization responses to imperfect reversal of spin dynamics known as Loschmidt echo. In the classical case, magnetization exhibits exponential sensitivity to small perturbations of Loschmidt echoes, which is characterized by twice the value of the largest Lyapunov exponent of the system. In the case of spins 1/2, magnetization is only power-law sensitive to small perturbations. Our findings imply that it is impossible to define Lyapunov exponents for lattices of spins 1/2 even in the macroscopic limit. At the same time, the above absence of exponential sensitivity to small perturbations is an encouraging news for the efforts to create quantum simulators. The power-law sensitivity of spin 1/2 lattices to small perturbations is predicted to be measurable in nuclear magnetic resonance experiments.

id: 1305.2848
title: A quantum field theoretical detector model for probing the Unruh effect
authors: Franz Thoma
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2848
abstract: We consider a particle detector model on 1+1-dimensional Minkowski space-time that is accelerated by a constant external acceleration a. The detector is coupled to a massless scalar test field. Due to the Unruh effect, this detector becomes excited even in Minkowski vacuum with a probability proportional to a thermal Bose-Einstein distribution at temperature T=a/2pi in the detector's energy gap. This excitation is usually said to happen upon detection of a Rindler quantum, which is defined by having positive frequency with respect to the detector's proper time instead of inertial time. Using Unruh's fully relativistic detector model, we show that the process involved is in fact spontaneous excitation of the detector due to the interaction with the accelerating background field E=ma. We explicitly solve the Klein-Gordon equation in the presence of a constant background field E and use this result to calculate the transition probability for the detector to become excited on Minkowski vacuum. This transition probability agrees with the Unruh effect, but is obtained without reverting to the concept of Rindler quantization.

id: 1305.2928
title: Bose-Einstein Condensation versus Dicke-Hepp-Lieb Transition in an Optical Cavity
authors: Francesco Piazza, Philipp Strack, Wilhelm Zwerger
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 339, 135 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2928
abstract: We provide an exact solution for the interplay between Bose-Einstein condensation and the Dicke-Hepp-Lieb self-organization transition of an ideal Bose gas trapped inside a single-mode optical cavity and subject to a transverse laser drive. Based on an effective action approach, we determine the full phase diagram at arbitrary temperature, which features a bi-critical point where the transitions cross. We calculate the dynamically generated band structure of the atoms and the associated supression of the critical temperature for Bose-Einstein condensation in the phase with a spontaneous periodic density modulation. Moreover, we determine the evolution of the polariton spectrum due to the coupling of the cavity photons and the atomic field near the self-organization transition, which is quite different above or below the Bose-Einstein condensation temperature. At low temperatures, the critical value of the Dicke-Hepp-Lieb transition decreases with temperature and thus thermal fluctuations can enhance the tendency to a periodic arrangement of the atoms.

id: 1305.3291
title: Entanglement Temperature and Entanglement Entropy of Excited States
authors: Gabriel Wong, Israel Klich, Leopoldo A. Pando Zayas, Diana Vaman
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures. Typo fixed in eq. (III.12) and constraint equation (VI.18) added generalizing previous result to higher dimensions.Some references added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3291
abstract: We derive a general relation between the ground state entanglement Hamiltonian and the physical stress tensor within the path integral formalism. For spherical entangling surfaces in a CFT, we reproduce the \emph{local} ground state entanglement Hamiltonian derived by Casini, Huerta and Myers. The resulting reduced density matrix can be characterized by a spatially varying "entanglement temperature." Using the entanglement Hamiltonian, we calculate the first order change in the entanglement entropy due to changes in conserved charges of the ground state, and find a local first law-like relation for the entanglement entropy. Our approach provides a field theory derivation and generalization of recent results obtained by holographic techniques. However, we note a discrepancy between our field theoretically derived results for the entanglement entropy of excited states with a non-uniform energy density and current holographic results in the literature. Finally, we give a CFT derivation of a set of constraint equations obeyed by the entanglement entropy of excited states in any dimension. Previously, these equations were derived in the context of holography.

id: 1305.3298
title: Enhanced atom interferometer readout through the application of phase shear
authors: Alex Sugarbaker, Susannah M. Dickerson, Jason M. Hogan, David M. S. Johnson, Mark A. Kasevich
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3298
abstract: We present a method for determining the phase and contrast of a single shot of an atom interferometer. The application of a phase shear across the atom ensemble yields a spatially varying fringe pattern at each output port, which can be imaged directly. This method is broadly relevant to atom interferometric precision measurement, as we demonstrate in a 10 m Rb-87 atomic fountain by implementing an atom interferometric gyrocompass with 10 millidegree precision.

id: 1305.3363
title: Quantized space-time and its influences on some physical problems
authors: Meng-Sen Ma, Hui-Hua Zhao
comments: 5pages, 1 figure
journal: Chinese Physics C , 2014 38 (4): 045102
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3363
abstract: Based on the idea of quantized space-time of Snyder, we derive new generalized uncertainty principle and new modified density of states. Accordingly we discuss the influences of the modified density of states on some physical quantities and laws. In addition we analyzed the exact solution of the harmonic oscillator in Snyder's quantized space-time.

id: 1305.3448
title: Entanglement entropy from surface terms in general relativity
authors: Arpan Bhattacharyya, Aninda Sinha
comments: 6 pages 1 fig. Essay awarded honourable mention in the Gravity Research Foundation 2013 Awards for Essays on Gravitation. v2: to appear in IJMPD spl. issue
journal: IJMPD 22, 12 (2013) 1342020
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3448
abstract: Entanglement entropy in local quantum field theories is typically ultraviolet divergent due to short distance effects in the neighbourhood of the entangling region. In the context of gauge/gravity duality, we show that surface terms in general relativity are able to capture this entanglement entropy. In particular, we demonstrate that for 1+1 dimensional CFTs at finite temperature whose gravity dual is the BTZ black hole, the Gibbons-Hawking-York term precisely reproduces the entanglement entropy which can be computed independently in the field theory.

id: 1305.3501
title: The Dynamics of an Electric Dipole Moment in a Stochastic Electric Field
authors: Y. B. Band
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E88, 022127 (2013)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3501
abstract: The mean-field dynamics of an electric dipole moment in a deterministic and a fluctuating electric field is solved to obtain the average over fluctuations of the dipole moment and the angular mo- mentum as a function of time for a Gaussian white noise stochastic electric field. The components of the average electric dipole moment and the average angular momentum along the deterministic electric field direction do not decay to zero, despite fluctuations in all three components of the elec- tric field. This is in contrast to the decay of the average over fluctuations of a magnetic moment in a stochastic magnetic field with Gaussian white noise in all three components. The components of the average electric dipole moment and the average angular momentum perpendicular to the deterministic electric field direction oscillate with time but decay to zero, and their variance grows with time.

id: 1305.3533
title: On energy exchange rate and entropy production operators in quantum fluctuation-dissipation relations
authors: Yu.E.Kuzovlev
comments: 10 pages, no figures, LaTeX2e iopart
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3533
abstract: For quantum systems with externally time-varied Hamiltonians a definition of operators of system's energy change rate (work per unit time) and entropy production observables is suggested and discussed in the context of rigorous statistical equalities (generalized fluctuation-dissipation relations) under the Jordan-symmetrized chronological operator ordering rule.

id: 1305.3565
title: Optical waveguide arrays: quantum effects and PT symmetry breaking
authors: Yogesh N. Joglekar, Clinton Thompson, Derek D. Scott, Gautam Vemuri
comments: 16 pages, 12 figures, Invited Review for European Physics Journal - Applied Physics
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Appl. Phys. 63, 30001 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3565
abstract: Over the last two decades, advances in fabrication have led to significant progress in creating patterned heterostructures that support either carriers, such as electrons or holes, with specific band structure or electromagnetic waves with a given mode structure and dispersion. In this article, we review the properties of light in coupled optical waveguides that support specific energy spectra, with or without the effects of disorder, that are well-described by a Hermitian tight-binding model. We show that with a judicious choice of the initial wave packet, this system displays the characteristics of a quantum particle, including transverse photonic transport and localization, and that of a classical particle. We extend the analysis to non-Hermitian, parity and time-reversal ($\mathcal{PT}$) symmetric Hamiltonians which physically represent waveguide arrays with spatially separated, balanced absorption or amplification. We show that coupled waveguides are an ideal candidate to simulate $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric Hamiltonians and the transition from a purely real energy spectrum to a spectrum with complex conjugate eigenvalues that occurs in them.

id: 1305.3660
title: Geometry and topology of CC and CQ states
authors: Micha? Oszmaniec, Piotr Suwara, Adam Sawicki
comments: Corrected version, Accepted for publication in JMP
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3660
abstract: We show that multipartite mixed bipartite CC and CQ states are geometrically and topologically distinguished in the space of states. They are characterized by non-vanishing Euler-Poincar\'{e} characteristics on the topological side and by the existence of symplectic structure on the geometric side.

id: 1305.3708
title: Local emergence of thermal correlations in an isolated quantum many-body system
authors: Tim Langen, Remi Geiger, Maximilian Kuhnert, Bernhard Rauer, Joerg Schmiedmayer
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 9, 640-643 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3708
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate how thermal properties in an non-equilibrium quantum many- body system emerge locally, spread in space and time, and finally lead to the globally relaxed state. In our experiment, we quench a one-dimensional (1D) Bose gas by coherently splitting it into two parts. By monitoring the phase coherence between the two parts we observe that the thermal correlations of a prethermalized state emerge locally in their final form and propagate through the system in a light-cone-like evolution. Our results underline the close link between the propagation of correlations and relaxation processes in quantum many-body systems.

id: 1305.3717
title: Inhomogeneous state of few-fermion superfluids
authors: P.O. Bugnion, J.A. Lofthouse, G.J. Conduit
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 045301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3717
abstract: The few-fermion atomic gas is an ideal setting to explore inhomogeneous superfluid pairing analogous to the Larkin-Ovchinnikov state. Two up and one down-spin atom is the minimal configuration that displays an inhomogeneous pairing density whereas imbalanced systems containing more fermions present a more complex pairing topology. With more than eight atoms trapped the system approaches the macroscopic superfluid limit. An oblate trap with a central barrier offers a direct experimental probe of pairing inhomogeneity.

id: 1305.3765
title: The mass spectrum of the Schwinger model with Matrix Product States
authors: M. C. Ba?uls, K. Cichy, K. Jansen, J. I. Cirac
comments: updated numerical results; accepted version
journal: JHEP 11 (2013) 158
subjects: High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3765
abstract: We show the feasibility of tensor network solutions for lattice gauge theories in Hamiltonian formulation by applying matrix product states algorithms to the Schwinger model with zero and non-vanishing fermion mass. We introduce new techniques to compute excitations in a system with open boundary conditions, and to identify the states corresponding to low momentum and different quantum numbers in the continuum. For the ground state and both the vector and scalar mass gaps in the massive case, the MPS technique attains precisions comparable to the best results available from other techniques.

id: 1305.3808
title: Metamaterial transparency induced by cooperative electromagnetic interactions
authors: Stewart D. Jenkins, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 147401 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3808
abstract: We propose a cooperative asymmetry-induced transparency, CAIT, formed by collective excitations in metamaterial arrays of discrete resonators. CAIT can display a sharp transmission resonance even when the constituent resonators individually exhibit broad resonances. We further show how dynamically reconfiguring the metamaterial allows one to actively control the transparency. While reminiscent of electromagnetically induced transparency, which can be described by independent emitters, CAIT relies on a cooperative response resulting from strong radiative couplings between the resonators.

id: 1305.3862
title: The Multi-Layer Multi-Configuration Time-Dependent Hartree Method for Bosons: Theory, Implementation and Applications
authors: Lushuai Cao, Sven Kr?nke, Oriol Vendrell, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 42 pages and 11 figures
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics, Volume 139, 134103 (2013)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3862
abstract: We develop the multi-layer multi-configuration time-dependent Hartree method for bosons (ML-MCTDHB), a variational numerically exact ab-initio method for studying the quantum dynamics and stationary properties of bosonic systems. ML-MCTDHB takes advantage of the permutation symmetry of identical bosons, which allows for investigations of the quantum dynamics from few to many-body systems. Moreover, the multi-layer feature enables ML-MCTDHB to describe mixed bosonic systems consisting of arbitrary many species. Multi-dimensional as well as mixed-dimensional systems can be accurately and efficiently simulated via the multi-layer expansion scheme. We provide a detailed account of the underlying theory and the corresponding implementation. We also demonstrate the superior performance by applying the method to the tunneling dynamics of bosonic ensembles in a one-dimensional double well potential, where a single-species bosonic ensemble of various correlation strengths and a weakly interacting two-species bosonic ensemble are considered.

id: 1305.3872
title: Extracting the Chern number from the dynamics of a Fermi gas: Implementing a quantum Hall bar for cold atoms
authors: Alexandre Dauphin, Nathan Goldman
comments: 5 pages (including 5 figures) + 5 appendices (including 12 figures); Revised version published in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 135302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3872
abstract: We propose a scheme to measure the quantized Hall conductivity of an ultracold Fermi gas initially prepared in a topological (Chern) insulating phase, and driven by a constant force. We show that the time evolution of the center of mass, after releasing the cloud, provides a direct and clear signature of the topologically invariant Chern number. We discuss the validity of this scheme, highlighting the importance of driving the system with a sufficiently strong force to displace the cloud over measurable distances while avoiding band-mixing effects. The unusual shapes of the driven atomic cloud are qualitatively discussed in terms of a semi-classical approach.

id: 1305.3877
title: The Heisenberg XX spin chain and low-energy QCD
authors: David P¨¦rez-Garc¨ªa, Miguel Tierz
comments: 12 pages. v3 Final version to appear in Phys. Rev. X; discussion on experimental accessibility extended; title modified in journal
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 021050 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3877
abstract: By using random matrix models we uncover a connection between the low energy sector of four dimensional QCD at finite volume and the Heisenberg XX model in a 1d spin chain. This connection allows to relate crucial properties of QCD with physically meaningful properties of the spin chain, establishing a dictionary between both worlds. We predict for the spin chain a third-order phase transition and a Tracy-Widom law in the transition region. We postulate that this dictionary goes beyond the particular example analyzed here and can be applied to other QFT and spin chain models. We finally comment on possible numerical implications of the connection as well as on possible experimental implementations.

id: 1305.3957
title: Quantum Limits of Interferometer Topologies for Gravitational Radiation Detection
authors: Haixing Miao, Huan Yang, Rana X Adhikari, Yanbei Chen
comments: grammar corrected
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 31, 165010, (2014)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3957
abstract: In order to expand the astrophysical reach of gravitational wave detectors, several interferometer topologies have been proposed to evade the thermodynamic and quantum mechanical limits in future detectors. In this work, we make a systematic comparison among them by considering their sensitivities and complexities. We numerically optimize their sensitivities by introducing a cost function that tries to maximize the broadband improvement over the sensitivity of current detectors. We find that frequency-dependent squeezed-light injection with a hundred-meter scale filter cavity yields a good broadband sensitivity, with low complexity, and good robustness against optical loss. This study gives us a guideline for the near-term experimental research programs in enhancing the performance of future gravitational-wave detectors.

id: 1305.3963
title: Parity violation in nuclear magnetic resonance frequencies of chiral tetrahedral tungsten complexes NWXYZ (X, Y, Z = H, F, Cl, Br or I)
authors: Sophie Nahrwold, Robert Berger, Peter Schwerdtfeger
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 140 (2014) 024305
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3963
abstract: Density functional theory within the two-component quasi-relativistic zeroth-order regular approximation (ZORA) is used to predict parity violation shifts in 183W nuclear magnetic resonance shielding tensors of chiral, tetrahedrally bonded tungsten complexes of the form NWXYZ (X, Y, Z = H, F, Cl, Br or I). The calculations reveal that sub-mHz accuracy is required to detect such tiny effects in this class of compounds, and that parity violation effects are very sensitive to the choice of ligands.

id: 1305.4193
title: Entanglement Structure in Expanding Universes
authors: Yasusada Nambu
comments: 29 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1105.5212
journal: Entropy 2013, 15(3) 1847-1874
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4193
abstract: We investigate entanglement of a quantum field in de Sitter spacetime using a particle detector model. By considering the entanglement between two comoving detectors interacting with a scalar field, it is possible to detect the entanglement of the scalar field by swapping it to detectors. For the massless minimal scalar field, we find that the entanglement between the detectors cannot be detected when their physical separation exceeds the Hubble horizon scale. This behavior supports the appearance of the classical nature of quantum fluctuations generated during the inflationary era.

id: 1305.4252
title: Optical drive of macroscopic mechanical motion by a single two-level system
authors: Alexia Auff¨¨ves, Maxime Richard
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4252
abstract: A quantum emitter coupled to a nano-mechanical oscillator is a hybrid system where a macroscopic degree of freedom is coupled to a purely quantum system. Recent progress in nanotechnology has led to the realization of such devices by embedding single artificial atoms like quantum dots or superconducting qubits into vibrating wires or membranes, opening up new perspectives for quantum information technologies and for the exploration of the quantum-classical boundary. In this letter, we show that the quantum emitter can be turned into a strikingly efficient light-controlled source of mechanical power, by exploiting constructive interferences of classical phonon fields in the mechanical oscillator. We show that this mechanism can be used as a novel strategy to carry out low-background non-destructive single-shot measurement of an optically active quantum bit state.

id: 1305.4325
title: Quantum Annealing for Dirichlet Process Mixture Models with Applications to Network Clustering
authors: Issei Sato, Shu Tanaka, Kenichi Kurihara, Seiji Miyashita, Hiroshi Nakagawa
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, accepted in Neurocomputing
journal: Neurocomputing, Vol. 121, 523 (2013)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Machine Learning (stat.ML)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4325
abstract: We developed a new quantum annealing (QA) algorithm for Dirichlet process mixture (DPM) models based on the Chinese restaurant process (CRP). QA is a parallelized extension of simulated annealing (SA), i.e., it is a parallel stochastic optimization technique. Existing approaches [Kurihara et al. UAI2009, Sato et al. UAI2009] and cannot be applied to the CRP because their QA framework is formulated using a fixed number of mixture components. The proposed QA algorithm can handle an unfixed number of classes in mixture models. We applied QA to a DPM model for clustering vertices in a network where a CRP seating arrangement indicates a network partition. A multi core processor was used for running QA in experiments, the results of which show that QA is better than SA, Markov chain Monte Carlo inference, and beam search at finding a maximum a posteriori estimation of a seating arrangement in the CRP. Since our QA algorithm is as easy as to implement the SA algorithm, it is suitable for a wide range of applications.

id: 1305.4409
title: Entropic fluctuations of quantum dynamical semigroups
authors: Vojkan Jaksic, Claude-Alain Pillet, Matthias Westrich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4409
abstract: We study a class of finite dimensional quantum dynamical semigroups exp(tL) whose generators L are sums of Lindbladians satisfying the detailed balance condition. Such semigroup arise in the weak coupling (van Hove) limit of Hamiltonian dynamical systems describing open quantum systems out of equilibrium. We prove a general entropic fluctuation theorem for this class of semigroups by relating the cumulant generating function of entropy transport to the spectrum of a family of deformations of the generator L. We show that, besides the celebrated Evans-Searles symmetry, this cumulant generating function also satisfies the translation symmetry recently discovered by Andrieux et al., and that in the linear regime near equilibrium these two symmetries yield Kubo's and Onsager's linear response relations.

id: 1305.4410
title: On the steady state correlation functions of open interacting systems
authors: Horia D. Cornean, Claude-Alain Pillet, Valeriu Moldoveanu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4410
abstract: We address the existence of steady state Green-Keldysh correlation functions of interacting fermions in mesoscopic systems for both the partitioning and partition-free scenarios. Under some spectral assumptions on the non-interacting model and for sufficiently small interaction strength, we show that the system evolves to a NESS which does not depend on the profile of the time-dependent coupling strength/bias. For the partitioned setting we also show that the steady state is independent of the initial state of the inner sample. Closed formulae for the NESS two-point correlation functions (Green-Keldysh functions), in the form of a convergent expansion, are derived. In the partitioning approach, we show that the 0th order term in the interaction strength of the charge current leads to the Landauer-Buettiker formula, while the 1st order correction contains the mean-field (Hartree-Fock) results.

id: 1305.4442
title: Self-trapping dynamics in a 2D optical lattice
authors: Shuming Li, Salvatore R. Manmana, Ana Maria Rey, Rafael Hipolito, Aaron Reinhard, Jean-F¨¦lix Riou, Laura A. Zundel, David S. Weiss
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4442
abstract: We describe theoretical models for the recent experimental observation of Macroscopic Quantum Self-Trapping (MQST) in the transverse dynamics of an ultracold bosonic gas in a 2D lattice. The pure mean-field model based on the solution of coupled nonlinear equations fails to reproduce the experimental observations. It greatly overestimates the initial expansion rates at short times and predicts a slower expansion rate of the cloud at longer times. It also predicts the formation of a hole surrounded by a steep square fort-like barrier which was not observed in the experiment. An improved theoretical description based on a simplified Truncated Wigner Approximation (TWA), which adds phase and number fluctuations in the initial conditions, pushes the theoretical results closer to the experimental observations but fails to quantitatively reproduce them. An explanation of the delayed expansion as a consequence of a new type of self-trapping mechanism, where quantum correlations suppress tunneling even when there are no density gradients, is discussed and supported by numerical time-dependent Density Matrix Renormalization Group (t-DMRG) calculations performed in a simplified two coupled tubes set-up.

id: 1305.4459
title: Grid-free powder averages: on the applications of the Fokker-Planck equation to solid state NMR
authors: Luke J. Edwards, D.V. Savostyanov, A.A. Nevzorov, M. Concistre, G. Pileio, Ilya Kuprov
comments: Submitted for publication
journal: Journal of Magnetic Resonance, 235 (2013) 121-129
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4459
abstract: We demonstrate that Fokker-Planck equations in which spatial coordinates are treated on the same conceptual level as spin coordinates yield a convenient formalism for treating magic angle spinning NMR experiments. In particular, time dependence disappears from the background Hamiltonian (sample spinning is treated as an interaction), spherical quadrature grids are avoided completely (coordinate distributions are a part of the formalism) and relaxation theory with any linear diffusion operator is easily adopted from the Stochastic Liouville Equation theory. The proposed formalism contains Floquet theory as a special case. The elimination of the spherical averaging grid comes at the cost of increased matrix dimensions, but we show that this can be mitigated by the use of state space restriction and tensor train techniques. It is also demonstrated that low correlation order basis sets apparently give accurate answers in powder-averaged MAS simulations, meaning that polynomially scaling simulation algorithms do exist for a large class of solid state NMR experiments.

id: 1305.4469
title: A challenge for critical point of spin glass in ground state
authors: Masayuki Ohzeki
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Proceedings of 4th YSM-SPIP (Sendai, 14-16 December 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4469
abstract: We show several calculations to identify the critical point in the ground state in random spin systems including spin glasses on the basis of the duality analysis. The duality analysis is a profound method to obtain the precise location of the critical point in finite temperature even for spin glasses. We propose a single equality for identifying the critical point in the ground state from several speculations. The equality can indeed give the exact location of the critical points for the bond-dilution Ising model on several lattices and provides insight on further analysis on the ground state in spin glasses.

id: 1305.4481
title: A single-atom electron spin qubit in silicon
authors: Jarryd J. Pla, Kuan Y. Tan, Juan P. Dehollain, Wee H. Lim, John J. L. Morton, David N. Jamieson, Andrew S. Dzurak, Andrea Morello
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature 489, 541 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4481
abstract: A single atom is the prototypical quantum system, and a natural candidate for a quantum bit - the elementary unit of a quantum computer. Atoms have been successfully used to store and process quantum information in electromagnetic traps, as well as in diamond through the use of the NV-center point defect. Solid state electrical devices possess great potential to scale up such demonstrations from few-qubit control to larger scale quantum processors. In this direction, coherent control of spin qubits has been achieved in lithographically-defined double quantum dots in both GaAs and Si. However, it is a formidable challenge to combine the electrical measurement capabilities of engineered nanostructures with the benefits inherent to atomic spin qubits. Here we demonstrate the coherent manipulation of an individual electron spin qubit bound to a phosphorus donor atom in natural silicon, measured electrically via single-shot readout. We use electron spin resonance to drive Rabi oscillations, while a Hahn echo pulse sequence reveals a spin coherence time (T2) exceeding 200 \mu s. This figure is expected to become even longer in isotopically enriched 28Si samples. Together with the use of a device architecture that is compatible with modern integrated circuit technology, these results indicate that the electron spin of a single phosphorus atom in silicon is an excellent platform on which to build a scalable quantum computer.

id: 1305.4491
title: Classical Structures Based on Unitaries
authors: Peter Hines
comments: 24 pages,7 diagrams
journal: 
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4491
abstract: Starting from the observation that distinct notions of copying have arisen in different categorical fields (logic and computation, contrasted with quantum mechanics) this paper addresses the question of when, or whether, they may coincide. Provided all definitions are strict in the categorical sense, we show that this can never be the case. However, allowing for the defining axioms to be taken up to canonical isomorphism, a close connection between the classical structures of categorical quantum mechanics, and the categorical property of self-similarity familiar from logical and computational models becomes apparent. The required canonical isomorphisms are non-trivial, and mix both typed (multi-object) and untyped (single-object) tensors and structural isomorphisms; we give coherence results that justify this approach. We then give a class of examples where distinct self-similar structures at an object determine distinct matrix representations of arrows, in the same way as classical structures determine matrix representations in Hilbert space. We also give analogues of familiar notions from linear algebra in this setting such as changes of basis, and diagonalisation.

id: 1305.4518
title: Canonical quantization of classical mechanics in curvilinear coordinates. Invariant quantization procedure
authors: Maciej Blaszak, Ziemowit Domanski
comments: 19 pages
journal: Annals of Physics 339 (2013) 89-108
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4518
abstract: In the paper is presented an invariant quantization procedure of classical mechanics on the phase space over flat configuration space. Then, the passage to an operator representation of quantum mechanics in a Hilbert space over configuration space is derived. An explicit form of position and momentum operators as well as their appropriate ordering in arbitrary curvilinear coordinates is demonstrated. Finally, the extension of presented formalism onto non-flat case and related ambiguities of the process of quantization are discussed.

id: 1305.4520
title: Strengthening weak value amplification with recycled photons
authors: Justin Dressel, Kevin Lyons, Andrew N. Jordan, Trent M. Graham, Paul G. Kwiat
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023821 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4520
abstract: We consider the use of cyclic weak measurements to improve the sensitivity of weak-value amplification precision measurement schemes. Previous weak-value experiments have used only a small fraction of events, while discarding the rest through the process of "post-selection". We extend this idea by considering recycling of events which are typically unused in a weak measurement. Here we treat a sequence of polarized laser pulses effectively trapped inside an interferometer using a Pockels cell and polarization optics. In principle, all photons can be post-selected, which will improve the measurement sensitivity. We first provide a qualitative argument for the expected improvements from recycling photons, followed by the exact result for the recycling of collimated beam pulses, and numerical calculations for diverging beams. We show that beam degradation effects can be mitigated via profile flipping or Zeno reshaping. The main advantage of such a recycling scheme is an effective power increase, while maintaining an amplified deflection.

id: 1305.4556
title: High-order harmonic generation from diatomic molecules in elliptically polarized driving fields: a generalized interference condition
authors: T. Das, B. B. Augstein, C. Figueira de Morisson Faria
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures; some figures have been simplified in order to comply with the arXiV requirements
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4556
abstract: We investigate the influence of intense, elliptically polarized driving fields on high-order harmonic spectra from aligned diatomic molecules. We derive a generalized two-center interference condition for elliptically polarized fields, which accounts for s-p mixing and the orbital symmetry, within the strong-field and the single-active electron approximation. We show that the non-vanishing ellipticity introduces an effective dynamic shift in the angle for which the two-center interference maxima and minima occur, with regard to the existing condition for linearly polarized fields. This shift depends on the ratio between the field-dressed momentum components of the returning electron parallel and perpendicular to the major ellipticity axis along each possible orbit. Because of this dependence, we find that there will be a blurring in the two-center interference minima, and that increasing ellipticity leads to splitting in such patterns. These features are investigated in detail for H2 and Ar2.

id: 1305.4566
title: On Quantized Lienard Oscillator and Momentum Dependent Mass
authors: B.Bagchi, A.Ghose Choudhury, P.Guha
comments: 10 pages,Final Version
journal: J.Math.Phys. 56, 012105 (2015)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4566
abstract: We examine the analytical structure of the nonlinear Lienard oscillator and show that it is a bi-Hamiltonian system depending upon the choice of the coupling parameters. While one has been recently studied in the context of a quantized momentum- dependent mass system, the other Hamiltonian also reflects a similar feature in the mass function and also depicts an isotonic character. We solve for such a Hamiltonian and give the complete solution in terms of a confluent hypergeometric function.

id: 1305.4652
title: Quasi-exact solution to the Dirac equation for the hyperbolic secant potential
authors: R. R. Hartmann, M. E. Portnoi
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures. Figure 2 removed, 2 additional figures and references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012101 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4652
abstract: We analyze bound modes of two-dimensional massless Dirac fermions confined within a hyperbolic secant potential, which provides a good fit for potential profiles of existing top-gated graphene structures. We show that bound states of both positive and negative energies exist in the energy spectrum and that there is a threshold value of the characteristic potential strength for which the first mode appears. Analytical solutions are presented in several limited cases and supercriticality is discussed.

id: 1305.4695
title: Topological relics of symmetry breaking: Winding numbers and scaling tilts from random vortex-antivortex pairs
authors: Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: Improvements in the presentation (including extended title) throughout. Conclusions (e.g., scalings in Fig. 2) unchanged
journal: J. Phys.: Cond. Matter 25, 404209 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4695
abstract: I show that random distributions of vortex-antivortex pairs (rather than of individual vortices) lead to scaling of typical winding numbers W trapped inside a loop of circumference C with the square root of C when the expected winding numbers are large. Such scaling is consistent with the Kibble-Zurek mechanism (KZM). By contrast, distribution of individual vortices with randomly assigned topological charges would result in the dispersion of W scaling with the square root of the area inside C. Scaling of the dispersion of W and of the probability of detection of non-zero W with C can be also studied for loops so small that non-zero windings are rare. In this case I show a doubling of the scaling of dispersion with C when compared to the scaling of dispersion in the large W regime. Moreover, probability of trapping of a non-zero W becomes, in this case, proportional to the area subtended by C (hence, to the square of circumference). This quadruples, as compared with large winding numbers regime, the exponent in the power law dependence of the frequency of trapping of W=+1 or W=-1 on C. Such change of the power law exponent by a FACTOR OF FOUR implies quadrupling of the scaling of the frequency of winding number trapping with the quench rate, and is of key importance for experimental tests of KZM.

id: 1305.4706
title: Characterization of fluorescence collection optics integrated with a micro-fabricated surface electrode ion trap
authors: Craig R. Clark, Chin-wen Chou, A. R. Ellis, Jeff Hunker, Shanalyn A. Kemme, Peter Maunz, Boyan Tabakov, Chris Tigges, Daniel L. Stick
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Applied 1, 024004 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4706
abstract: One of the outstanding challenges for ion trap quantum information processing is to accurately detect the states of many ions in a scalable fashion. In the particular case of surface traps, geometric constraints make imaging perpendicular to the surface appealing for light collection at multiple locations with minimal cross-talk. In this report we describe an experiment integrating Diffractive Optic Elements (DOE's) with surface electrode traps, connected through in-vacuum multi-mode fibers. The square DOE's reported here were all designed with solid angle collection efficiencies of 3.58%; with all losses included a detection efficiency of 0.388% (1.02% excluding the PMT loss) was measured with a single Ca+ ion. The presence of the DOE had minimal effect on the stability of the ion, both in temporal variation of stray electric fields and in motional heating rates.

id: 1305.4750
title: Ultracold collision in the presence of synthetic spin-orbit coupling
authors: Hao Duan, Li You, Bo Gao
comments: This is a shorter version of the published article. It may be easier to read for people who do not care about the math details
journal: Physical Review A 87, 052708 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4750
abstract: We present an analytic description of ultracold collision between two spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ fermions with isotropic spin-orbit coupling of the Rashba type. We show that regardless of how weak the spin-orbit coupling may be, the ultracold collision at sufficiently low energies is significantly modified, including the ubiquitous Wigner threshold behavior. We further show that the particles are preferably scattered into the lower-energy helicity state due to the break of parity conservation, thus establishing interaction with spin-orbit coupling as one mechanism for the spontaneous emergence of handedness.

id: 1305.4835
title: Magnetic susceptibility and Landau diamagnetism of quantum collisional degenerate plasmas
authors: A. V. Latyshev, A. A. Yushkanov
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1007.0732
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4835
abstract: With the use of correct expression of the electric conductivity of quantum collisional degenerate plasmas (A. V. Latyshev and A. A. Yushkanov, Transverse electrical conductivity of a quantum collisional plasma in the Mermin approach, - Theor. and Math. Phys., {\bf 175}(1): 559-569 (2013)) the kinetic description of a magnetic susceptibility is obtained and the formula for calculation of Landau diamagnetism is deduced.

id: 1305.4915
title: A phenomenology of certain many-body-localized systems
authors: David A. Huse, Vadim Oganesyan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 174202 (2014)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4915
abstract: We consider isolated quantum systems with all of their many-body eigenstates localized. We define a sense in which such systems are integrable, and discuss a method for finding their localized conserved quantum numbers ("constants of motion"). These localized operators are interacting pseudospins and are subject to dephasing but not to dissipation, so any quantum states of these pseudospins can in principle be recovered via (spin) echo procedures. We also discuss the spreading of entanglement in many-body localized systems, which is another aspect of the dephasing due to interactions between these localized conserved operators.

id: 1305.4951
title: Strain tuning of a quantum dot strongly coupled to a photonic crystal cavity
authors: Shuo Sun, Hyochul Kim, Glenn S. Solomon, Edo Waks
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 151102 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4951
abstract: We demonstrate reversible strain-tuning of a quantum dot strongly coupled to a photonic crystal cavity. We observe an average redshift of 0.45 nm for quantum dots located inside the cavity membrane, achieved with an electric field of 15 kV/cm applied to a piezo-electric actuator. Using this technique, we demonstrate the ability to tune a quantum dot into resonance with a photonic crystal cavity in the strong coupling regime, resulting in a clear anti-crossing. The bare cavity resonance is less sensitive to strain than the quantum dot and shifts by only 0.078 nm at the maximum applied electric field.

id: 1305.4988
title: Quantum Techniques for Studying Equilibrium in Reaction Networks
authors: John C. Baez, Brendan Fong
comments: 11 pages
journal: jcomplexnetw (2015) 3 (1): 22-34
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.4988
abstract: Anderson, Craciun, and Kurtz have proved that a stochastically modelled chemical reaction system with mass-action kinetics admits a stationary distribution when the deterministic model of the same system with mass-action kinetics admits an equilibrium solution obeying a certain "complex balance" condition. Here we present a proof of their theorem using tools from the theory of second quantization: Fock space, annihilation and creation operators, and coherent states. This is an example of "stochastic mechanics", where we take techniques from quantum mechanics and replace amplitudes by probabilities.

id: 1305.5021
title: Loop prolongations and three-cocycles in simulated magnetic fields from rotating reference frames
authors: W.H. Klink, S. Wickramasekara
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5021
abstract: We show that the Wigner-Bargmann program of grounding non-relativistic quantum mechanics in the unitary projective representations of the Galilei group can be extended to include all non-inertial reference frames. The key concept is the \emph{Galilean line group}, the group of transformations that ties together all accelerating reference frames, and its representations. These representations are constructed under the natural constraint that they reduce to the well-known unitary, projective representations of the Galilei group when the transformations are restricted to inertial reference frames. This constraint can be accommodated only for a class of representations with a sufficiently rich cocycle structure. Unlike the projective representations of the Galilei group, these cocycle representations of the Galilean line group do not correspond to central extensions of the group. Rather, they correspond to a class of non-associative extensions, known as \emph{loop prolongations}, that are determined by three-cocycles. As an application, we show that the phase shifts due to the rotation of the earth that have been observed in neutron interferometry experiments and the rotational effects that lead to simulated magnetic fields in optical lattices can be rigorously derived from the representations of the loop prolongations of the Galilean line group.

id: 1305.5079
title: Conditions for Quantum Interference in Cognitive Sciences
authors: V.I. Yukalov, D. Sornette
comments: Latex file, 13 pages
journal: Top. Cogn. Sci. 6 (2014) 79-90
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5079
abstract: We present a general classification of the conditions under which cognitive science, concerned e.g. with decision making, requires the use of quantum theoretical notions. The analysis is done in the frame of the mathematical approach based on the theory of quantum measurements. We stress that quantum effects in cognition can arise only when decisions are made under uncertainty. Conditions for the appearance of quantum interference in cognitive sciences and the conditions when interference cannot arise are formulated.

id: 1305.5129
title: Quenching and generation of random states in a kicked Ising model
authors: Sunil K. Mishra, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: EPL, 105 (2014) 10002
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5129
abstract: The kicked Ising model with both a pulsed transverse and a continuous longitudinal field is studied numerically. Starting from a large transverse field and a state that is nearly an eigenstate, the pulsed transverse field is quenched with a simultaneous enhancement of the longitudinal field. The generation of multipartite entanglement is observed along with a phenomenon akin to quantum resonance when the entanglement does not evolve for certain values of the pulse duration. Away from the resonance, the longitudinal field can drive the entanglement to near maximum values that is shown to agree well with those of random states. Further evidence is presented that the time evolved states obtained do have some statistical properties of such random states. For contrast the case when the fields have a steady value is also discussed.

id: 1305.5131
title: Effects of symmetry breaking in finite quantum systems
authors: J.L. Birman, R.G. Nazmitdinov, V.I. Yukalov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rep. 526 (2013) 1-91
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5131
abstract: The review considers the peculiarities of symmetry breaking and symmetry transformations and the related physical effects in finite quantum systems. Some types of symmetry in finite systems can be broken only asymptotically. However, with a sufficiently large number of particles, crossover transitions become sharp, so that symmetry breaking happens similarly to that in macroscopic systems. This concerns, in particular, global gauge symmetry breaking, related to Bose-Einstein condensation and superconductivity, or isotropy breaking, related to the generation of quantum vortices, and the stratification in multicomponent mixtures. A special type of symmetry transformation, characteristic only for finite systems, is the change of shape symmetry. These phenomena are illustrated by the examples of several typical mesoscopic systems, such as trapped atoms, quantum dots, atomic nuclei, and metallic grains. The specific features of the review are: (i) the emphasis on the peculiarities of the symmetry breaking in finite mesoscopic systems; (ii) the analysis of common properties of physically different finite quantum systems; (iii) the manifestations of symmetry breaking in the spectra of collective excitations in finite quantum systems. The analysis of these features allows for the better understanding of the intimate relation between the type of symmetry and other physical properties of quantum systems. This also makes it possible to predict new effects by employing the analogies between finite quantum systems of different physical nature.

id: 1305.5141
title: Quantum chaos in SU_3 models with trapped ions
authors: Tobias Gra?, Bruno Julia-Diaz, Marek Ku?, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 090404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5141
abstract: A scheme to generate long-range spin-spin interactions between three-level ions in a chain is presented, providing a feasible experimental route to the rich physics of well-known $SU_3$ models. In particular, we demonstrate different signatures of quantum chaos which can be controlled and observed in experiments with trapped ions.

id: 1305.5144
title: Attractive Electromagnetic Casimir Stress on a Spherical Dielectric Shell
authors: N. Graham, M. Quandt, H. Weigel
comments: Five pages, one figure, pdflatex, matches version to be pusblished in Phys Lett B
journal: Phys. Lett. B726 (2013) 846
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5144
abstract: Based on calculations involving an idealized boundary condition, it has long been assumed that the stress on a spherical conducting shell is repulsive. We use the more realistic case of a Drude dielectric to show that the stress is attractive, matching the generic behavior of Casimir forces in electromagnetism. We trace the discrepancy between these two cases to interactions between the electromagnetic quantum fluctuations and the dielectric material.

id: 1305.5192
title: Coexistence of phase transitions and hysteresis near BEC
authors: M. M?nnel, K. Morawetz, P. Lipavsk?
comments: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053617 (2013) [7 pages]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5192
abstract: Multiple phases occurring in a Bose gas with finite-range interaction are investigated. In the vicinity of the onset of Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) the chemical potential and the pressure show a van-der-Waals like behavior indicating a first-order phase transition although there is no long-range attraction. Furthermore the equation of state becomes multivalued near the BEC transition. For a Hartree-Fock or Popov (Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov) approximation such a multivalued region can be avoided by the Maxwell construction. For sufficiently weak interaction the multivalued region can also be removed using a many-body \mbox{T-matrix} approximation. However, for strong interactions there remains a multivalued region even for the \mbox{T-matrix} approximation and after the Maxwell construction, what is interpreted as a density hysteresis. This unified treatment of normal and condensed phases becomes possible due to the recently found scheme to eliminate self-interaction in the \mbox{T-matrix} approximation, which allows to calculate properties below and above the critical temperature.

id: 1305.5231
title: A Master Equation for Gravitational Decoherence: Probing the Textures of Spacetime
authors: C. Anastopoulos, B. L. Hu
comments: 24 pages. Minor changes, version to appear in Class. Quant. Grav
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 30 165007 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5231
abstract: We give a first principles derivation of a master equation for the evolution of a quantum matter field in a linearly perturbed Minkowski spacetime, based solely on quantum field theory and general relativity. We make no additional assumptions nor introduce extra ingredients, as is often done in alternative quantum theories. When the quantum matter field is projected to a one-particle state, the master equation for a non-relativistic quantum particle in a weak gravitational field predicts decoherence in the energy basis, in contrast to most existing theories of gravitational decoherence. We point out the gauge nature of time and space reparameterizations in matter-gravity couplings, and warn that `intrinsic' decoherence or alternative quantum theories invoking stochastic dynamics arising from temporal or spatial fluctuations violate this fundamental symmetry of classical general relativity. Interestingly we find that the decoherence rate depends on extra parameters other than the Planck scale, an important feature of gravitational decoherence. This is similar to the dependence of the decoherence rate of a quantum Brownian particle to the temperature and spectral density of the environment it interacts with. The corresponding features when gravity acts as an environment in decohering quantum objects are what we call the `textures' of spacetime. We point out the marked difference between the case when gravity is represented as a background spacetime versus the case when gravity acts like a thermodynamic bath to quantum particles. This points to the possibility of using gravitational decoherence measurements to discern whether gravity is intrinsically elemental or emergent.

id: 1305.5244
title: A formal framework for the study of the notion of undefined particle number in quantum mechanics
authors: Newton da Costa, Federico Holik
comments: To appear in Synthese, 2014
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5244
abstract: It is usually stated that quantum mechanics presents problems with the identity of particles, the most radical position -supported by E. Schrodinger- asserting that elementary particles are not individuals. But the subject goes deeper, and it is even possible to obtain states with an unde?ned particle number. In this work we present a set theoretical framework for the description of unde?ned particle number states in quantum mechanics which provides a precise logical meaning for this notion. This construction goes in the line of solving a problem posed by Y. Manin, namely, to incorporate quantum mechanical notions at the foundations of mathematics. We also show that our system is capable of representing quantum superpositions.

id: 1305.5297
title: Photonic Bound State in the Continuum for Strong Light-matter Interaction
authors: Chang-Ling Zou, Jin-Ming Cui, Fang-Wen Sun, Xiao Xiong, Xu-Bo Zou, Zheng-Fu Han, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages,4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5297
abstract: The photonic bound state in the continuum (BIC) is discovered in a hybrid photonic circuit with low refractive index waveguide on a high refractive index thin membrane, where the optical dissipation is forbidden because of the destructive interference of different leakage channels. Based on the photonic BIC, the low mode area in a hybrid waveguide and high quality factor in a microresonator can be applied to enhance the light-matter interaction. Taking the fabrication-friendly polymer structure on diamond membrane as an example, those excellent optical performances can exist in a wide range of structure parameters with large fabrication tolerance and induce the strong coupling between photon and nitrogen-vacancy center in the diamond for scalable quantum information processors and networks. Such a fabrication-friendly structure with photonic BIC is also very promising in laser, nonlinear optical and quantum optical applications.

id: 1305.5309
title: Atom trapping in a bottle beam created by a diffractive optical element
authors: V. V. Ivanov, J. A. Isaacs, M. Saffman, S.A. Kemme, A.R. Ellis, G.R. Brady, J.R. Wendt, G. W. Biedermann, S. Samora
comments: 13 figures, submitted to Appl. Phys. B
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5309
abstract: A diffractive optical element (DOE) has been fabricated for creating blue detuned atomic bottle beam traps. The DOE integrates several diffractive lenses for trap creation and imaging of atomic fluorescence. We characterize the performance of the DOE and demonstrate trapping of cold Cesium atoms inside a bottle beam.

id: 1305.5370
title: Lattice scars: Surviving in an open discrete billiard
authors: V¨ªctor Fern¨¢ndez-Hurtado, Jordi Mur-Petit, Juan Jos¨¦ Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, Rafael A. Molina
comments: 14 one-column pages, 6 figures. Watch appearance of scars during dynamical evolution on movies at this http URL and this http URL v2: title changed; more details on experimental implementations. Accepted for publication by New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 16 035005 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5370
abstract: We study quantum systems on a discrete bounded lattice (lattice billiards). The statistical properties of their spectra show universal features related to the regular or chaotic character of their classical continuum counterparts. However, the decay dynamics of the open systems appear very different from the continuum case, their properties being dominated by the states in the band center. We identify a class of states ("lattice scars") that survive for infinite times in dissipative systems and that are degenerate at the center of the band. We provide analytical arguments for their existence in any bipartite lattice, and give a formula to determine their number. These states should be relevant to quantum transport in discrete systems, and we discuss how to observe them using photonic waveguides, cold atoms in optical lattices, and quantum circuits.

id: 1305.5379
title: Spin effects in relativistic ionization with highly charged ions in super-strong laser fields
authors: Michael Klaiber, Enderalp Yakaboylu, Carsten M¨¹ller, Heiko Bauke, Gerhard G. Paulus, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics, vol. 47, article 065603 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5379
abstract: Spin effects in above-threshold ionization of hydrogenlike highly charged ions in super-strong laser fields are investigated. Spin-resolved ionization rates in the tunneling regime are calculated by employing two versions of a relativistic Coulomb-corrected strong-field approximation (SFA). An intuitive simple-man model is developed which explains the derived scaling laws for spin-flip and spin-asymmetry effects. The intuitive model as well as our ab initio numerical simulations support the analytical results for the spin effects obtained in the dressed SFA where the impact of the laser field on the electron spin evolution in the bound state is taken into account. In contrast, the standard SFA is shown to fail in reproducing spin effects at ionization even at a qualitative level. The anticipated spin-effects are expected to be measurable with modern laser techniques combined with an ion storage facility.

id: 1305.5463
title: Exploiting lens aberrations to create electron vortex beams
authors: L. Clark, A. B¨¦ch¨¦, G. Guzzinati, A. Lubk, M. Mazilu, R. Van Boxem, J. Verbeeck
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 064801 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5463
abstract: A model for a new electron vortex beam production method is proposed and experimentally demonstrated. The technique calls on the controlled manipulation of the degrees of freedom of the lens aberrations to achieve a helical phase front. These degrees of freedom are accessible by using the corrector lenses of a transmission electron microscope. The vortex beam is produced through a particular alignment of these lenses into a specifically designed astigmatic state and applying an annular aperture in the condensor plane. Experimental results are found to be in good agreement with simulations.

id: 1305.5480
title: Quantum interference-enhanced deep sub-Doppler cooling of 39 K atoms in gray molasses
authors: Dipankar Nath, R Kollengode Easwaran, G. Rajalakshmi, C.S. Unnikrishnan
comments: 7 pages,10 images
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5480
abstract: We report enhanced sub-Doppler cooling of the bosonic atoms of $^{39}$K facilitated by formation of dark states tuned for the Raman resonance in the $\Lambda-$configuration near the D1 transition. Temperature of about 12 $\mu$K is achieved in the two stage D2-D1 molasses and spans a very large parameter region where quantum interference persists robustly. We also present results on enhanced radiation heating with sub-natural linewidth (0.07$\Gamma$) and signature Fano like profile of a coherently driven 3-level atomic system. The Optical Bloch Equations relevant for the three-level atom in bichromatic light field is solved with the method of continued fractions to show that cooling occurs only for a small velocity class of atoms, emphasizing the need for pre-cooling in D2 molasses stage.

id: 1305.5491
title: Coherent dynamics of Rydberg atoms in cosmic microwave background radiation
authors: Timur V. Tscherbul, Paul Brumer
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 013423 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5491
abstract: Rydberg atoms excited by cold blackbody radiation are shown to display long-lived quantum coherences on timescales of tens of picoseconds. By solving non-Markovian equations of motion with no free parameters we obtain the time evolution of the density matrix, and demonstrate that the blackbody-induced temporal coherences manifest as slowly decaying (100 ps) quantum beats in time-resolved fluorescence. An analytic model shows the dependence of the coherent dynamics on the energy splitting between atomic eigenstates, transition dipole moments, and coherence time of the radiation. Experimental detection of the fluorescence signal from a trapped ensemble of $10^8$ Rydberg atom is discussed, but shown to be technically challenging at present, requiring CMB amplification somewhat beyond current practice.

id: 1305.5545
title: Sabidussi Versus Hedetniemi for Three Variations of the Chromatic Number
authors: Chris Godsil, David Roberson, Robert ?¨¢mal, Simone Severini
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5545
abstract: We investigate vector chromatic number, Lovasz theta of the complement, and quantum chromatic number from the perspective of graph homomorphisms. We prove an analog of Sabidussi's theorem for each of these parameters, i.e. that for each of the parameters, the value on the Cartesian product of graphs is equal to the maximum of the values on the factors. We also prove an analog of Hedetniemi's conjecture for Lovasz theta of the complement, i.e. that its value on the categorical product of graphs is equal to the minimum of its values on the factors. We conjecture that the analogous results hold for vector and quantum chromatic number, and we prove that this is the case for some special classes of graphs.

id: 1305.5583
title: Some Solvable Quantum Mechanical Models and Their Symmetries
authors: Bikashkali Midya
comments: Ph.D. Thesis. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0401031, arXiv:hep-th/0703096, arXiv:hep-th/9405029 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5583
abstract: This thesis is focused on some solvable quantum mechanical models and their associated symmetries.

id: 1305.5598
title: Realizing a lattice spin model with polar molecules
authors: Bo Yan, Steven A. Moses, Bryce Gadway, Jacob P. Covey, Kaden R. A. Hazzard, Ana Maria Rey, Deborah S. Jin, Jun Ye
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nature 501 521 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5598
abstract: With the recent production of polar molecules in the quantum regime, long-range dipolar interactions are expected to facilitate the understanding of strongly interacting many-body quantum systems and to realize lattice spin models for exploring quantum magnetism. In atomic systems, where interactions require wave function overlap, effective spin interactions on a lattice can be realized via superexchange; however, the coupling is weak and limited to nearest-neighbor interactions. In contrast, dipolar interactions exist in the absence of tunneling and extend beyond nearest neighbors. This allows coherent spin dynamics to persist even at high entropy and low lattice filling. Effects of dipolar interactions in ultracold molecular gases have so far been limited to the modification of chemical reactions. We now report the observation of dipolar interactions of polar molecules pinned in a 3D optical lattice. We realize a lattice spin model with spin encoded in rotational states, prepared and probed by microwaves. This spin-exchange interaction arises from the resonant exchange of rotational angular momentum between two molecules. We observe clear oscillations in the evolution of the spin coherence in addition to an overall decay. The frequency of these oscillations, the strong dependence of the spin coherence time on the lattice filling, and the effect of a multi-pulse sequence designed to reverse dynamics due to two-body exchange interactions all provide evidence of dipolar interactions. We also demonstrate suppression of loss in weak lattices due to a quantum Zeno mechanism. Measurements of these tunneling-induced losses allow us to independently determine the lattice filling factor. These results comprise an initial exploration of the behavior of many-body spin models with direct, long-range spin interactions and lay the groundwork for future studies of many-body dynamics in spin lattices.

id: 1305.5631
title: Characterizing vortex beam with angular-double-slit interference
authors: Ruifeng Liu, Junling Long, Feiran Wang, Yunlong Wang, Pei Zhang, Hong Gao, Fuli Li
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Opt. 15 (2013) 125712 (5pp)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5631
abstract: The Fraunhofer diffraction intensity distribution of Laguerre-Gaussian beam is studied in an angular-double-slit interferometer. We demonstrate that the spiral phase structure of vortex light can be clearly revealed in this interference geometry, and it gives us an efficient way to distinguish different order of Laguerre-Gaussian beams. This angular-double-slit interference gives us a better understanding to the nature of orbital angular momentum and the interpretation of vortex beams interference phenomenon.

id: 1305.5658
title: Elastic scattering and path integral
authors: G. V. Efimov
comments: 33 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5658
abstract: Representation of the elastic scattering amplitude in the form of the path integral is obtained using the stationary Schroedinger equation. A few methods of evaluation of path integrals for large coupling constants are formulated. The methods are based on the uncertainty correlation. The scattering lengths and cross sections are calculated for the right angled and singular potentials and the Yukawa potential. The comparison with exact results is made.

id: 1305.5686
title: Integrable quantum St?ckel systems
authors: Maciej Blaszak, Ziemowit Domanski, Artur Sergyeyev, Blazej M. Szablikowski
comments: 13 pages, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5686
abstract: The St\"ackel separability of a Hamiltonian system is well known to ensure existence of a complete set of Poisson commuting integrals of motion quadratic in the momenta. In the present paper we consider a class of St\"ackel separable systems where the entries of the St\"ackel matrix are monomials in the separation variables. We show that the only systems in this class for which the integrals of motion arising from the St\"ackel construction keep commuting after quantization are, up to natural equivalence transformations, the so-called Benenti systems. Moreover, it turns out that the latter are the only quantum separable systems (that is, they admit separation of variables in the Schr\"odinger equation) in the class under study.

id: 1305.5689
title: Grassmannian Connection Between Three- and Four-Qubit Observables, Mermin's Contextuality and Black Holes
authors: Peter Levay, Michel Planat, Metod Saniga
comments: 25 pages, one figure, published in the Oberwolfach Preprint Series (OWP-2013-17); a slightly extended version to appear in JHEP
journal: JHEP 09 (2013) 037
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5689
abstract: We invoke some ideas from finite geometry to map bijectively 135 heptads of mutually commuting three-qubit observables into 135 symmetric four-qubit ones. After labeling the elements of the former set in terms of a seven-dimensional Clifford algebra, we present the bijective map and most pronounced actions of the associated symplectic group on both sets in explicit forms. This formalism is then employed to shed novel light on recently-discovered structural and cardinality properties of an aggregate of three-qubit Mermin's 'magic' pentagrams. Moreover, some intriguing connections with the so-called black-hole--qubit correspondence are also pointed out.

id: 1305.5700
title: Creation of quasiparticles in graphene by a time-dependent electric field
authors: G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 25 pages, 1 table, 3 figures; minor misprints are corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. D, v.87, 125011 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5700
abstract: We investigate the creation of massless quasiparticle pairs from the vacuum state in graphene by the space homogeneous time-dependent electric field. For this purpose the formalism of (2+1)-dimensional quantum electrodynamics is applied to the case of a nonstationary background with arbitrary time dependence allowing the S-matrix formulation of the problem. The number of created pairs per unit graphene area is expressed via the asymptotic solution at $t\to\infty$ of the second-order differential equation of an oscillator type with complex frequency satisfying some initial conditions at $t\to-\infty$. The obtained results are applied to the electric field with specific dependence on time admitting the exact solution of Dirac equation. The number of created pairs per unit area is calculated analytically in a wide variety of different regimes depending on the parameters of electric field. The investigated earlier case of static electric field is reproduced as a particular case of our formalism. It is shown that the creation rate in a time-dependent field is often larger than in a static field.

id: 1305.5769
title: Long-range interactions between polar alkali-metal diatoms in external electric fields
authors: Maxence Lepers, Romain Vexiau, Mireille Aymar, Nadia Bouloufa-Maafa, Olivier Dulieu
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032709 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5769
abstract: We computed the long-range interactions between two identical polar bialkali molecules in their rovibronic ground level, for all ten species involving Li, Na, K, Rb and Cs, using accurate quantum chemistry results combined with available spectroscopic data. Huge van der Waals interaction is found for eight species in free space. The competition of the van der Waals interaction with the dipole-dipole interaction induced by an external electric field parallel or perpendicular to the intermolecular axis is investigated by varying the electric field magnitude and the intermolecular distance. Our calculations predict a regime with the mutual orientation of the two molecules but with no preferential direction in the laboratory frame. A mechanism for the stimulated one-photon radiative association of a pair of ultracold polar molecules into ultracold tetramers is proposed, which would open the way towards the optical manipulation of ultracold polyatomic molecules.

id: 1305.5818
title: Quantum and classical correlations and Werner states in finite spin linear arrays
authors: P. R. Wells Jr., C. M. Chaves, J. A. e. Castro, Belita Koiller
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1111.4513
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5818
abstract: Pairwise quantum correlations in the ground state of a N-spins antiferromagnetic chain described by the Heisenberg model with nearest neighbor exchange coupling are investigated. By varying a single coupling between two neighboring sites it is possible to drive spins from entangled to disentangled states, reversibly. For even N the two-spin density matrix is written in the form of a Werner state, allowing identification of the weight parameter with the usual spin-spin correlation function $\langle S_i^z \, S_j^z \rangle = \Gamma_{ij}$. The correlation functions show universal behavior in the $\Gamma$-dependence. This study presents a concrete possibility for the practical demonstration of entanglement control, opening alternatives for probing non-classical correlations and the realization of Werner states in familiar condensed matter systems. All required fabrication and measurement ingredients are currently available.

id: 1305.5832
title: Efficient Single Photon Absorption by Optimized Superconducting Nanowire Geometries
authors: Mohsen K. Akhlaghi, Haig Atikian, Jeff F. Young, Marko Loncar, A. Hamed Majedi
comments: \copyright 2013 IEEE. Submitted to "Numerical Simulation of Optoelectronic Devices - NUSOD 2013" on 19-April-2013
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5832
abstract: We report on simulation results that shows optimum photon absorption by superconducting nanowires can happen at a fill-factor that is much less than 100%. We also present experimental results on high performance of our superconducting nanowire single photon detectors realized using NbTiN on oxidized silicon.

id: 1305.5917
title: Multimode Coupling by Boundary Wave Scattering
authors: Li Ge, Qinghai Song, Brandon Redding, Alexander Eberspacher, Jan Wiersig, Hui Cao
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043801 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5917
abstract: We show that coupling among multiple resonances can be conveniently introduced and controlled by boundary wave scattering. We demonstrate this principle in optical microcavities of quasi-circular shape, where the couplings of multiple modes are determined by the scattering from different harmonic boundary deformations. We analyze these couplings using a perturbation theory, which gives an intuitive understanding of the first-order and higher-order scattering processes. Different scattering paths between two boundary waves can either enhance or reduce their coupling strength. The effect of controlled multimode coupling is most pronounced in the direction of output from an open cavity, which can cause a dramatic change of the external cavity field distribution.

id: 1305.6013
title: Quantum interference effects in an ensemble of $^{229}$Th nuclei interacting with coherent light
authors: Sumanta Das, Adriana P¨¢lffy, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 14 papes, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6013
abstract: As a unique feature, the $^{229}$Th nucleus has an isomeric transition in the vacuum ultraviolet that can be accessed by optical lasers. The interference effects occurring in the interaction between coherent optical light and an ensemble of $^{229}$Th nuclei are investigated theoretically. We consider the scenario of nuclei doped in vacuum ultraviolet-vacuum ultraviolet transparent crystals and take into account the effect of different doping sites and therefore different lattice fields that broaden the nuclear transition width. This effect is shown to come in interplay with interference effects due to the hyperfine splitting of the ground and isomeric nuclear states. We investigate possible experimentally available situations involving two-, three- and four-level schemes of quadrupole sublevels of the ground and isomeric nuclear states coupling to one or two coherent fields. Specific configurations which offer clear signatures of the isomer excitation advantageous for the more precise experimental determination of the transition energy are identified. Furthermore, it is shown that population trapping into the isomeric state can be achieved. This paves the way for further nuclear quantum optics applications with $^{229}$Th such as nuclear coherent control.

id: 1305.6019
title: Observation of resonance-assisted dynamical tunneling in an asymmetric microcavity
authors: Hojeong Kwak, Younghoon Shin, Songky Moon, Kyungwon An
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 5, article number 9010 (2015)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6019
abstract: We report the first experimental observation of the resonance-assisted dynamical tunneling (RADT) in the inter-mode interaction in an asymmetric-deformed microcavity. A selection rule for strong inter-mode coupling induced by RADT was observed on angular mode numbers as predicted by the RADT theory. In addition, the coupling strength was measured to be proportional to the square of the phase-space area associated with the nonlinear resonance involved in RADT. The proportionality constant was found to depend only on the nonlinear resonance, supporting the semiclassical nature of RADT.

id: 1305.6102
title: A two-dimensional lattice of blue detuned atom traps using a projected Gaussian beam array
authors: M. J. Piotrowicz, M. Lichtman, K. Maller, G. Li, S. Zhang, L. Isenhower, M. Saffman
comments: Fig. 1 caption extended, to appear Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013420 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6102
abstract: We describe a new type of blue detuned optical lattice for atom trapping which is intrinsically two dimensional, while providing three-dimensional atom localization. The lattice is insensitive to optical phase fluctuations since it does not depend on field interference between distinct optical beams. The array is created using a novel arrangement of weakly overlapping Gaussian beams that creates a two-dimensional array of dark traps which are suitable for magic trapping of ground and Rydberg states. We analyze the spatial localization that can be achieved and demonstrate trapping and detection of single Cs atoms in 6 and 49 site two-dimensional arrays.

id: 1305.6159
title: Observation of Higher-Order Sideband Transitions and First-Order Sideband Rabi Oscillations in a Superconducting Flux Qubit Coupled to a SQUID Plasma Mode
authors: Yoshihiro Shimazu, Masaki Takahashi, Natsuki Okamura
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, to be published in J. Phys. Soc. Jpn
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 82, 074710 (2013)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6159
abstract: We report results of spectroscopic measurements and time-domain measurements of a superconducting flux qubit. The dc superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID), used for readout of the qubit, and a shunt capacitor formed an LC resonator generating a SQUID plasma mode. Higher-order red and blue sidebands were observed in a simple measurement scheme because the resonant energy of the resonator, 600 MHz, was comparable to the thermal energy. We also observed Rabi oscillations on the carrier transition and the first-order sideband transitions. Because the qubit was coupled to a single arm of the dc SQUID, the qubit-SQUID coupling was significant at zero bias current, where these phenomena were observed. The ratios between the Rabi periods for the carrier transition and the sideband transitions are compared with those estimated from the coupling constant, which was separately determined. The result may be explained by assuming initial excitation of the resonator.

id: 1305.6230
title: Thermal entanglement in the mixed three spin XXZ Heisenberg Model on a triangular cell
authors: Seyit Deniz Han, Ekrem Aydiner
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6230
abstract: We numerically investigate thermal entanglement of the spins (1/2,1) and (1/2,1/2) in the three-mixed (1/2,1,1/2) anisotropic Heisenberg XXZ spin system on a simple triangular cell under an inhomogeneous magnetic field. We show that the external magnetic field induces strong plateau formation in pairwise thermal entanglement for fixed parameters of Hamiltonian in the case of the ferromagnetic and anti-ferromagnetic interactions. We also observe an unexpected critical point at finite temperature in the thermal entanglement of the spins (1/2,1) for antiferromagnetic case while the entanglement of the spins (1/2,1) for ferromagnetic case and the entanglement of the spins (1/2,1/2) for both ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic cases almost decays exponentially to zero with increasing temperature. The critical point in entanglement of the spins (1/2,1) for antiferromagnetic case may be signature of the quantum phase transition at finite temperature.

id: 1305.6307
title: Generalized space and linear momentum operators in quantum mechanics
authors: Bruno G. da Costa, Ernesto P. Borges
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures (12 eps files)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6307
abstract: We propose a modification of a recently introduced generalized translation operator, by including a $q$-exponential factor, which implies in the definition of a Hermitian deformed linear momentum operator $\hat{p}_q$, and its canonically conjugate deformed position operator $\hat{x}_q$. A canonical transformation leads the Hamiltonian of a position-dependent mass particle to another Hamiltonian of a particle with constant mass in a conservative force field of a deformed phase space. The equation of motion for the classical phase space may be expressed in terms of the generalized dual $q$-derivative. A position-dependent mass confined in an infinite square potential well is shown as an instance. Uncertainty and correspondence principles are analyzed.

id: 1305.6341
title: Information conservation is fundamental: recovering the lost information in Hawking radiation
authors: Baocheng Zhang, Qing-yu Cai, Ming-sheng Zhan, Li You
comments: First Award in the 2013 Awards for Essays on Gravitation
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics D 22 (2013) 1341014
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6341
abstract: In both classical and quantum world, information cannot appear or disappear. This fundamental principle, however, is questioned for a black hole, by the acclaimed "information loss paradox". Based on the conservation laws of energy, charge, and angular momentum, we recently show the total information encoded in the correlations among Hawking radiations equals exactly to the same amount previously considered lost, assuming the non-thermal spectrum of Parikh and Wilczek. Thus the information loss paradox can be falsified through experiments by detecting correlations, for instance, through measuring the covariances of Hawking radiations from black holes, such as the manmade ones speculated to appear in LHC experiments. The affirmation of information conservation in Hawking radiation will shine new light on the unification of gravity with quantum mechanics.

id: 1305.6359
title: Characterizing the rate and coherence of single-electron tunneling between two dangling bonds on the surface of silicon
authors: Zahra Shaterzadeh-Yazdi, Lucian Livadaru, Marco Taucer, Josh Mutus, Jason Pitters, Robert A. Wolkow, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 035315 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6359
abstract: We devise a scheme to characterize tunneling of an excess electron shared by a pair of tunnel-coupled dangling bonds on a silicon surface -- effectively a two-level system. Theoretical estimates show that the tunneling should be highly coherent but too fast to be measured by any conventional techniques. Our approach is instead to measure the time-averaged charge distribution of our dangling-bond pair by a capacitively coupled atomic-force-microscope tip in the presence of both a surface-parallel electrostatic potential bias between the two dangling bonds and a tunable midinfrared laser capable of inducing Rabi oscillations in the system. With a nonresonant laser, the time-averaged charge distribution in the dangling-bond pair is asymmetric as imposed by the bias. However, as the laser becomes resonant with the coherent electron tunneling in the biased pair the theory predicts that the time-averaged charge distribution becomes symmetric. This resonant symmetry effect should not only reveal the tunneling rate, but also the nature and rate of decoherence of single-electron dynamics in our system.

id: 1305.6378
title: Scalar particle in general inertial and gravitational fields and conformal invariance revisited
authors: Alexander J. Silenko
comments: 5 pages, final version
journal: Physical Review D 88, 045004 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6378
abstract: The new manifestation of conformal invariance for a massless scalar particle in a Riemannian spacetime of general relativity is found. Conformal transformations conserve the Hamiltonian and wave function in the Foldy-Wouthuysen representation. Similarity of manifestations of conformal invariance for massless scalar and Dirac particles is proved. New exact Foldy-Wouthuysen Hamiltonians are derived for both massive and massless scalar particles in a general static spacetime and in a frame rotating in the Kerr field approximated by a spatially isotropic metric. The latter case covers an observer on the ground of the Earth or on a satellite and takes into account the Lense-Thirring effect. High-precision formulas are obtained for an arbitrary spacetime metric. General quantum-mechanical equations of motion are derived. Their classical limit coincides with corresponding classical equations.

id: 1305.6413
title: Diffraction catastrophes threaded by quantized vortex skeletons caused by atom-optical aberrations induced in trapped Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: T. P. Simula, T. C. Petersen, D. M. Paganin
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043626 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6413
abstract: We propose a nonlinear atom-optics experiment to create diffraction catastrophes threaded by quantized vortex skeletons in Bose-Einstein condensed matter waves. We show how atom-optical aberrations induced in trapped Bose-Einstein condensates evolve into specific caustic structures due to imperfect focusing. Vortex skeletons, whose cross-sections are staggered vortex lattices, are observed to nucleate inside the universal diffraction catastrophes. Our observations shed further light on the structure and dynamics of Bose-novae and suggest applications of matter wave diffraction catastrophes, including detection of the order parameter pairing symmetry in cold gas experiments.

id: 1305.6414
title: Generation of hyper-entangled photon pairs in coupled microcavities
authors: S. Portolan, L. Einkemmer, Z. V?r?s, G. Weihs, P. Rabl
comments: Main paper + Supplementary Material
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6414
abstract: We propose and theoretically analyze a new scheme for generating hyper-entangled photon pairs in a system of polaritons in coupled planar microcavities. Starting from a microscopic model, we evaluate the relevant parametric scattering processes and numerically simulate the phonon-induced noise background under continuous-wave excitation. Our results show that, compared to other polariton entanglement proposals, our scheme enables the generation of photon pairs that are entangled in both path and polarization degrees of freedom, and simultaneously leads to a strong reduction of the photoluminesence noise background. This can significantly improve the fidelity of the entangled photon pairs under realistic experimental conditions.

id: 1305.6427
title: Strong coupling of optical nanoantennas and atomic systems
authors: Karolina S?owik, Robert Filter, Jakob Straubel, Falk Lederer, Carsten Rockstuhl
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6427
abstract: An optical nanoantenna and adjacent atomic systems are strongly coupled when an excitation is repeatedly exchanged between these subsystems prior to its eventual dissipation into the environment. It remains challenging to reach the strong coupling regime but it is equally rewarding. Once being achieved, promising applications as signal processing at the nanoscale and at the single photon level would immediately come into reach. Here, we study such hybrid configuration from different perspectives. The configuration we consider consists of two identical atomic systems, described in a two-level approximation, which are strongly coupled to an optical nanoantenna. First, we investigate when this hybrid system requires a fully quantum description and provide a simple analytical criterion. Second, a design for a nanoantenna is presented that enables the strong coupling regime. Besides a vivid time evolution, the strong coupling is documented in experimentally accessible quantities, such as the extinction spectra. The latter are shown to be strongly modified if the hybrid system is weakly driven and operates in the quantum regime. We find that the extinction spectra depend sensitively on the number of atomic systems coupled to the nanoantenna.

id: 1305.6527
title: Wigner transport equation with finite coherence length
authors: Carlo Jacoboni, Paolo Bordone
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure. Revised text. Added new references
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6527
abstract: The use of the Wigner function for the study of quantum transport in open systems present severe criticisms. Some of the problems arise from the assumption of infinite coherence length of the electron dynamics outside the system of interest. In the present work the theory of the Wigner function is revised assuming a finite coherence length. A new dynamical equation is found, corresponding to move the Wigner momentum off the real axis, and a numerical analysis is performed for the case of study of the onedimensional potential barrier.

id: 1305.6538
title: Quantum Entanglement and Thermal Reduced Density Matrices in Fermion and Spin Systems on Ladders
authors: Xiao Chen, Eduardo Fradkin
comments: revised version, 13 pages, 2 figures, 38 refernces
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P08013
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6538
abstract: Numerical studies of the reduced density matrix of a gapped spin-1/2 Heisenberg antiferromagnet on a two-leg ladder find that it has the same form as the Gibbs density matrix of a gapless spin-1/2 Heisenberg antiferromagnetic chain at a finite temperature determined by the spin gap of the ladder. We investigate this interesting result by considering a model of free fermions on a two-leg ladder (gapped by the inter-chain tunneling operator) and in spin systems on a ladder with a gapped ground state using exact solutions and several controlled approximations. We calculate the reduced density matrix and the entanglement entropy for a leg of the ladder (i.e. cut made between the chains). In the fermionic system we find the exact form of the reduced density matrix for one of the chains and determine the entanglement spectrum explicitly. Here we find that in the weak tunneling limit of the ladder the entanglement entropy of one chain of the gapped ladder has a simple and universal form dictated by conformal invariance. In the case of the spin system, we consider the strong coupling limit by using perturbation theory and get the reduced density matrix by the Schmidt decomposition. The entanglement entropies of a general gapped system of two coupled conformal field theories (in 1+1 dimensions) is discussed using the replica trick and scaling arguments. We show that 1) for a system with a bulk gap the reduced density matrix has the form of a thermal density matrix, 2) the long-wavelength modes of one subsystem (a chain) of a gapped coupled system are always thermal, 3) the von Neumann entropy equals to the thermodynamic entropy of one chain, and 4) the bulk gap plays the role of effective temperature.

id: 1305.6551
title: Statistical mechanical expression of entropy production for an open quantum system
authors: Hiroki Majima, Akira Suzuki
comments: 4 pages, no figure. Published in AIP Conf. Proc
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1518, 714-717 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6551
abstract: A quantum statistical expression for the entropy of a nonequilibrium system is defined so as to be consistent with Gibbs' relation, and is shown to corresponds to dynamical variable by introducing analogous to the Heisenberg picture in quantum mechanics. The general relation between system-reservoir interactions and an entropy change operator in an open quantum system, relying just on the framework of statistical mechanics and the definition of von Neumann entropy. By using this formula, we can obtain the correct entropy production in the linear response framework. The present derivation of entropy production is directly based on the first principle of microscopic time-evolution, while the previous standard argument is due to the thermodynamic energy balance.

id: 1305.6578
title: Thickness-induced violation of de Haas-van Alphen effect through exact analytical solutions at a one-electron and a one-Composite Fermion level
authors: Georgios Konstantinou, Konstantinos Moulopoulos
comments: 59 pages, many figures. An extensive treatment of the not-so-harmless role of thickness (but mostly at a one-particle level). Based on arXiv:1209.5102. Accepted for publication in European Physical Journal B. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1209.5102
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6578
abstract: A systematic study of the energetics of electrons in an interface in a magnetic field is reported with exact analytical calculations based on a Landau Level (LL) picture, by serious consideration of the finite thickness of the Quantum Well (QW). The approach is physically transparent and subtly different in its line of reasoning from standard methods avoiding any semi-classical approximation. We find "internal" phase transitions (at partial LL filling) for magnetisation and susceptibility that are not captured by other approaches and that give rise to nontrivial violations of the standard de Haas-van Alphen periods, in a manner that reproduces the exact quantal astrophysical behaviours in the limit of full three-dimensional (3D) space. Upon inclusion of Zeeman splitting, additional features are also found, such as global energy minima originating from the interplay of QW, Zeeman and LL Physics, while a corresponding calculation in a Composite Fermion picture with {\Lambda}-Levels, leads to new predictions on magnetic properties of an interacting electron liquid. By pursuing the same line of reasoning for a topologically nontrivial system with a relativistic spectrum, we find evidence that similar effects might be operative in the dimensionality crossover of 3D strong topological insulators to 2D topological insulator quantum wells.

id: 1305.6583
title: Controlling the dynamic range of a Josephson parametric amplifier
authors: C. Eichler, A. Wallraff
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: EPJ Quantum Technology 2014, 1:2
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6583
abstract: One of the central challenges in the development of parametric amplifiers is the control of the dynamic range relative to its gain and bandwidth, which typically limits quantum limited amplification to signals which contain only a few photons per inverse bandwidth. Here, we discuss the control of the dynamic range of Josephson parametric amplifiers by using Josephson junction arrays. We discuss gain, bandwidth, noise, and dynamic range properties of both a transmission line and a lumped element based parametric amplifier. Based on these investigations we derive useful design criteria, which may find broad application in the development of practical parametric amplifiers.

id: 1305.6592
title: Polarization radiation of vortex electrons with large orbital angular momentum
authors: Igor P. Ivanov, Dmitry V. Karlovets
comments: v2: 20 pages, 10 figures, 1 table; additional figure, table, explanations, and various text improvements, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043840 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6592
abstract: Vortex electrons, - freely propagating electrons whose wavefunction has helical wavefronts, - could become a novel tool in the physics of electromagnetic radiation. They carry a non-zero intrinsic orbital angular momentum (OAM) $\ell$ with respect to the propagation axis and, for \ell \gg 1, a large OAM-induced magnetic moment, \mu ~ \ell \mu_B (\mu_B is the Bohr magneton), which influences the radiation of electromagnetic waves. Here, we consider in detail the OAM-induced effects by such electrons in two forms of polarization radiation, namely in Cherenkov radiation and transition radiation. Thanks to the large \ell, we can neglect quantum or spin-induced effects, which are of the order of \hbar \omega/E_e \ll 1, but retain the magnetic moment contribution \ell \hbar \omega/E_e \lesssim 1, which makes the quasiclassical approach to polarization radiation applicable. We discuss the magnetic moment contribution to polarization radiation, which has never been experimentally observed, and study how its visibility depends on the kinematical parameters and the medium permittivity. In particular, it is shown that this contribution can, in principle, be detected in azimuthally non-symmetrical problems, for example when vortex electrons obliquely cross a metallic screen (transition radiation) or move nearby it (diffraction radiation). We predict a left-right angular asymmetry of the transition radiation (in the plane where the charge radiation distributions would stay symmetric), which appears due to an effective interference between the charge radiation field and the magnetic moment one. Numerical values of this asymmetry for vortex electrons with E_e = 300keV and \ell = O(100-1000) are O(0.1-1%), and we argue that this effect could be detected with existing technology. The finite conductivity of the target and frequency dispersion play the crucial roles in these predictions.

id: 1305.6598
title: Microscopic observation of magnon bound states and their dynamics
authors: Takeshi Fukuhara, Peter Schau?, Manuel Endres, Sebastian Hild, Marc Cheneau, Immanuel Bloch, Christian Gross
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Nature 502, 76 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6598
abstract: More than eighty years ago, H. Bethe pointed out the existence of bound states of elementary spin waves in one-dimensional quantum magnets. To date, identifying signatures of such magnon bound states has remained a subject of intense theoretical research while their detection has proved challenging for experiments. Ultracold atoms offer an ideal setting to reveal such bound states by tracking the spin dynamics after a local quantum quench with single-spin and single-site resolution. Here we report on the direct observation of two-magnon bound states using in-situ correlation measurements in a one-dimensional Heisenberg spin chain realized with ultracold bosonic atoms in an optical lattice. We observe the quantum walk of free and bound magnon states through time-resolved measurements of the two spin impurities. The increased effective mass of the compound magnon state results in slower spin dynamics as compared to single magnon excitations. In our measurements, we also determine the decay time of bound magnons, which is most likely limited by scattering on thermal fluctuations in the system. Our results open a new pathway for studying fundamental properties of quantum magnets and, more generally, properties of interacting impurities in quantum many-body systems.

id: 1305.6625
title: Classifying Quantum Phases With The Torus Trick
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6625
abstract: Classifying phases of local quantum systems is a general problem that includes special cases such as free fermions, commuting projectors, and others. An important distinction in this classification should be made between classifying periodic and aperiodic systems. A related distinction is that between homotopy invariants (invariants which remain constant so long as certain general properties such as locality, gap, and others hold) and locally computable invariants (properties of the system that cannot change from one region to another without producing a gapless edge between them). We attack this problem using a technique inspired by Kirby's "torus trick" in topology. We use this trick to reproduce results for free fermions (in particular, using the trick to reduce the aperiodic classification to the simpler problem of periodic classification). We also show that a similar trick works for interacting phases which are nontrivial but lack anyons; these results include symmetry protected phases. A key part of this work is an attempt to classify quantum cellular automata (QCA).

id: 1305.6761
title: Theoretical assessment on the possibility of constraining point defect energetics by pseudo-phase transition pressures
authors: Hua Y. Geng, Hong X. Song, Q. Wu
comments: 31 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 174107 (2013) [13 pages]
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6761
abstract: Making use of the energetics and equations of state of defective uranium dioxide that calculated with first-principles method, we demonstrate a possibility of constraining the formation energy of point defects by measuring the transition pressures of the corresponding pseudo-phase of defects. The mechanically stable range of fluorite structure of UO2, which dictates the maximum possible pressure of relevant pseudo-phase transitions, gives rise to defect formation energies that span a wide band and overlap with the existing experimental estimates. We reveal that the knowledge about pseudo-phase boundaries can not only provide important information of energetics that is helpful for reducing the scattering in current estimates, but also be valuable for guiding theoretical assessments, even to validate or disprove a theory. In order to take defect interactions into account and to extrapolate the physical quantities at finite stoichiometry deviations to that near the stoichiometry, we develop a general formalism to describe the thermodynamics of a defective system. We also show that it is possible to include interactions among defects in a simple expression of point defect model (PDM) by introducing an auxiliary constant mean-field. This generalization of the simple PDM leads to great versatility that allows one to study nonlinear effects of stoichiometry deviation on materials' behavior. It is a powerful tool to extract the defect energetics from finite defect concentrations to the dilute limit. Besides these, the full content of the theoretical formalism and some relevant and interesting issues, including reentrant pseudo-transition, multi-defect coexistence, charged defects, and possible consequence of instantaneous defective response in a quantum crystal, are explored and discussed.

id: 1305.6793
title: Entropy production along nonequilibrium quantum jump trajectories
authors: Jordan M. Horowitz, Juan M. R. Parrondo
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures, fixed typos
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 085028
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6793
abstract: For classical nonequilibrium systems, the separation of the total entropy production into the adiabatic and nonadiabatic contributions is useful for understanding irreversibility in nonequilibrium thermodynamics. In this article, we formulate quantum analogs for driven open quantum systems describable by quantum jump trajectories by applying a quantum stochastic thermodynamics. Our main conclusions are based on a quantum formulation of the local detailed balance condition.

id: 1305.6822
title: Violation of Bell's inequality in fluid mechanics
authors: Robert Brady, Ross Anderson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6822
abstract: We show that a classical fluid mechanical system can violate Bell's inequality because the fluid motion is correlated over large distances.

id: 1305.6841
title: Dynamical Casimir Effect in dissipative media: When is the final state non-separable ?
authors: Xavier Busch, Renaud Parentani
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6841
abstract: We study the consequences of dissipation in homogeneous media when the system is subject to a sudden change, thereby producing pairs of correlated quasi-particles with opposite momenta. We compute both the modifications of the spectrum, and those of the correlations. In particular, we compute the final coherence level, and identify the regimes where the state is non-separable. To isolate the role of dissipation, we first consider dispersive media and study the competition between the intensity of the jump which induces some coherence, and the temperature which reduces it. The contributions of stimulated and spontaneous emission are clearly identified. We then study how dissipation modifies this competition.

id: 1305.6880
title: Entanglement growth in quench dynamics with variable range interactions
authors: J. Schachenmayer, B. P. Lanyon, C. F. Roos, A. J. Daley
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 031015 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6880
abstract: Studying entanglement growth in quantum dynamics provides both insight into the underlying microscopic processes and information about the complexity of the quantum states, which is related to the efficiency of simulations on classical computers. Recently, experiments with trapped ions, polar molecules, and Rydberg excitations have provided new opportunities to observe dynamics with long-range interactions. We explore nonequilibrium coherent dynamics after a quantum quench in such systems, identifying qualitatively different behavior as the exponent of algebraically decaying spin-spin interactions in a transverse Ising chain is varied. Computing the build-up of bipartite entanglement as well as mutual information between distant spins, we identify linear growth of entanglement entropy corresponding to propagation of quasiparticles for shorter range interactions, with the maximum rate of growth occurring when the Hamiltonian parameters match those for the quantum phase transition. Counter-intuitively, the growth of bipartite entanglement for long-range interactions is only logarithmic for most regimes, i.e., substantially slower than for shorter range interactions. Experiments with trapped ions allow for the realization of this system with a tunable interaction range, and we show that the different phenomena are robust for finite system sizes and in the presence of noise. These results can act as a direct guide for the generation of large-scale entanglement in such experiments, towards a regime where the entanglement growth can render existing classical simulations inefficient.

id: 1305.6888
title: Asymptotically Decreasing Lieb-Robinson Velocity for a Class of Dissipative Quantum Dynamics
authors: Beno?t Descamps
comments: 17 pages
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 54, 092202 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6888
abstract: We study the velocity of the propagation of information for a class of local dissipative quantum dynamics. This finite velocity is expressed by the so-called Lieb-Robinson bound. Besides the properties of the already studied dynamics, we consider an additional relation that expresses the propagation of certain subspaces. The previously derived bounds did not reflect the dissipative character of the dynamics and yielded the same result as for the reversible case. In this article, we show that for this class the velocity of propagation of information is time dependent and decays in time towards a smaller velocity. In some cases the velocity becomes zero. At the end of the article, the exponential clustering theorem of general frustration free local Markovian dynamics is revisited.

id: 1305.7000
title: Optical time domain reflectometry with low noise waveguide-coupled superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors
authors: Carsten Schuck, Wolfram H. P. Pernice, Xiaosong Ma, Hong X. Tang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 191104 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7000
abstract: We demonstrate optical time domain reflectometry over 200 km of optical fiber using low-noise NbTiN superconducting single-photon detectors integrated with Si3N4 waveguides. Our small detector footprint enables high timing resolution of 50ps and a dark count rate of 3 Hz with unshielded fibers, allowing for identification of defects along the fiber over a dynamic range of 37.4 dB. Photons scattered and reflected back from the fiber under test can be detected in free-running mode without showing dead zones or other impairments often encountered in semiconductor photon-counting optical time domain reflectometers.

id: 1305.7107
title: Twofold Transition in PT-Symmetric Coupled Oscillators
authors: Carl M. Bender, Mariagiovanna Gianfreda
comments: 9 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7107
abstract: The inspiration for this theoretical paper comes from recent experiments on a PT-symmetric system of two coupled optical whispering galleries (optical resonators). The optical system can be modeled as a pair of coupled linear oscillators, one with gain and the other with loss. If the coupled oscillators have a balanced loss and gain, the system is described by a Hamiltonian and the energy is conserved. This theoretical model exhibits two PT transitions depending on the size of the coupling parameter \epsilon. For small \epsilon the PT symmetry is broken and the system is not in equilibrium, but when \epsilon becomes sufficiently large, the system undergoes a transition to an equilibrium phase in which the PT symmetry is unbroken. For very large \epsilon the system undergoes a second transition and is no longer in equilibrium. The classical and the quantized versions of the system exhibit transitions at exactly the same values of \epsilon.

id: 1305.7221
title: The fate of Lorentz frame in the vicinity of black hole singularity
authors: Douglas G. Moore, V. H. Satheeshkumar
comments: 7 pages. This essay received an honorable mention in the Gravity Research Foundation 2013 Awards for Essays on Gravitation
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. D 22, 12 (2013) 1342026
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7221
abstract: General Relativity is known to break down at singularities. However, it is expected that quantum corrections become important when the curvature is of the order of Planck scale avoiding the singularity. By calculating the effect of tidal forces on a freely falling inertial frame, and assuming the least possible size of the frame to be of the Planck length, we show that the Lorentz frames cease to exist at a finite distance from the singularity. Within that characteristic radius, one cannot apply General Relativity nor Quantum Field Theory as we know them today. Additionally we consider other quantum length scales and impose limits on the distances from the singularity at which those theories can conceivably be applied within a Lorentz frame.

id: 1305.7341
title: Light transmission through a triangular air gap
authors: Silvania A. Carvalho, Stefano De Leo
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 60, 437-443 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7341
abstract: Due to the recent interest in studying propagation of light through triangular air gaps, we calculate, by using the analogy between optics and quantum mechanics and the multiple step technique, the transmissivity through a triangular air gap surrounded by an homogeneous dielectric medium. The new formula is then compared with the formula used in literature. Starting from the qualitative and quantitative differences between these formulas, we propose optical experiments to test our theoretical results.

id: 1305.7381
title: Mind and Matter
authors: D.M.Appleby
comments: 27 pages; invited talk at workshop on Pauli and Jung, Filzbach, September 2012
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7381
abstract: It is argued that the problem of interpreting quantum mechanics, and the philosophical problem of consciousness, both have their roots in the same set of misguided Cartesian assumptions. The confusions underlying those assumptions are analyzed in detail. It is sometimes suggested that quantum mechanics might explain consciousness. That is not the suggestion here. Rather it is suggested that an adequate non-Cartesian philosophy would transform our understanding of both quantum mechanics and consciousness. Consequently, it would change our ideas as to just what it is that we are trying to explain.

id: 1305.7244
title: Entanglement Tsunami: Universal Scaling in Holographic Thermalization
authors: Hong Liu, S. Josephine Suh
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures; v2: references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 011601 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.7244
abstract: We consider the time evolution of entanglement entropy after a global quench in a strongly coupled holographic system, whose subsequent equilibration is described in the gravity dual by the gravitational collapse of a thin shell of matter resulting in a black hole. In the limit of large regions of entanglement, the evolution of entanglement entropy is controlled by the geometry around and inside the event horizon of the black hole, resulting in regimes of pre-local- equilibration quadratic growth (in time), post-local-equilibration linear growth, a late-time regime in which the evolution does not carry any memory of the size and shape of the entangled region, and a saturation regime with critical behavior resembling those in continuous phase transitions. Collectively, these regimes suggest a picture of entanglement growth in which an "entanglement tsunami" carries entanglement inward from the boundary. We also make a conjecture on the maximal rate of entanglement growth in relativistic systems.

id: 1305.5869
title: An atomic clock with $10^{-18}$ instability
authors: N. Hinkley, J. A. Sherman, N. B. Phillips, M. Schioppo, N. D. Lemke, K. Beloy, M. Pizzocaro, C. W. Oates, A. D. Ludlow
comments: 
journal: Science v. 341: 1215-1218, 2013
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.5869
abstract: Atomic clocks have been transformational in science and technology, leading to innovations such as global positioning, advanced communications, and tests of fundamental constant variation. Next-generation optical atomic clocks can extend the capability of these timekeepers, where researchers have long aspired toward measurement precision at 1 part in $\bm{10^{18}}$. This milestone will enable a second revolution of new timing applications such as relativistic geodesy, enhanced Earth- and space-based navigation and telescopy, and new tests on physics beyond the Standard Model. Here, we describe the development and operation of two optical lattice clocks, both utilizing spin-polarized, ultracold atomic ytterbium. A measurement comparing these systems demonstrates an unprecedented atomic clock instability of $\bm{1.6\times 10^{-18}}$ after only $\bm{7}$ hours of averaging.

id: 1305.3965
title: Asymptotic Expressions for Charge Matrix Elements of the Fluxonium Circuit
authors: Guanyu Zhu, Jens Koch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87 144518 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3965
abstract: In charge-coupled circuit QED systems, transition amplitudes and dispersive shifts are governed by the matrix elements of the charge operator. For the fluxonium circuit, these matrix elements are not limited to nearest-neighbor energy levels and are conveniently tunable by magnetic flux. Previously, their values were largely obtained numerically. Here, we present analytical expressions for the fluxonium charge matrix elements. We show that new selection rules emerge in the asymptotic limit of large Josephson energy and small inductive energy. We illustrate the usefulness of our expressions for the qualitative understanding of charge matrix elements in the parameter regime probed by previous experiments.

id: 1305.6027
title: Discrete symmetries determining scalar quantum modes on the de Sitter spacetime
authors: Ion I. Cotaescu, Gabriel Pascu
comments: 28 pages no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.6027
abstract: The action of the discrete symmetries on the scalar mode functions of the de Sitter spacetime is studied. The invariance with respect to a combination of discrete symmetries is put forward as a criterion to select a certain vacuum out of a family of vacua. The implications of the choices for eigenfunctions of various common sets of commuting operators are explored, and the results are compared to the different original choices from the literature that have been utilized in order to exhibit thermal effects.

