id: 1306.0050
title: Hyperentanglement concentration for two-photon four-qubit systems with linear optics
authors: Bao-Cang Ren, Fang-Fang Du, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0050
abstract: Hyperentanglement, defined as the entanglement in several degrees of freedom (DOFs) of a quantum system, has attracted much attention recently. Here we investigate the possibility of concentrating the two-photon four-qubit systems in partially hyperentangled states in both the spatial mode and the polarization DOFs with linear optics. We first introduce our parameter-splitting method to concentrate the systems in the partially hyperentangled states with known parameters, including partially hyperentangled Bell states and cluster states. Subsequently, we present another two nonlocal hyperentanglement concentration protocols (hyper-ECPs) for the systems in partially hyperentangled unknown states, resorting to the Schmidt projection method. It will be shown that our parameter-splitting method is very efficient for the concentration of the quantum systems in partially entangled states with known parameters, resorting to linear-optical elements only. All these four hyper-ECPs are feasible with current technology and they may be useful in long-distance quantum communication based on hyperentanglement as they require only linear optical elements.

id: 1306.0159
title: The Ghost in the Quantum Turing Machine
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 85 pages (more a short book than a long essay!), 2 figures. To appear in "The Once and Future Turing: Computing the World," a collection edited by S. Barry Cooper and Andrew Hodges. And yes, I know Turing is 101 by now. v2: Corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Literature (cs.GL); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0159
abstract: In honor of Alan Turing's hundredth birthday, I unwisely set out some thoughts about one of Turing's obsessions throughout his life, the question of physics and free will. I focus relatively narrowly on a notion that I call "Knightian freedom": a certain kind of in-principle physical unpredictability that goes beyond probabilistic unpredictability. Other, more metaphysical aspects of free will I regard as possibly outside the scope of science. I examine a viewpoint, suggested independently by Carl Hoefer, Cristi Stoica, and even Turing himself, that tries to find scope for "freedom" in the universe's boundary conditions rather than in the dynamical laws. Taking this viewpoint seriously leads to many interesting conceptual problems. I investigate how far one can go toward solving those problems, and along the way, encounter (among other things) the No-Cloning Theorem, the measurement problem, decoherence, chaos, the arrow of time, the holographic principle, Newcomb's paradox, Boltzmann brains, algorithmic information theory, and the Common Prior Assumption. I also compare the viewpoint explored here to the more radical speculations of Roger Penrose. The result of all this is an unusual perspective on time, quantum mechanics, and causation, of which I myself remain skeptical, but which has several appealing features. Among other things, it suggests interesting empirical questions in neuroscience, physics, and cosmology; and takes a millennia-old philosophical debate into some underexplored territory.

id: 1306.1807
title: Unidirectional quantum walks: evolution and exit times
authors: Miquel Montero
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures; revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012333 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1807
abstract: In this paper we focus our attention on a particle that follows a unidirectional quantum walk, an alternative version of the nowadays widespread discrete-time quantum walk on a line. Here the walker at each time step can either remain in place or move in a fixed direction, e.g., rightward or upward. While both formulations are essentially equivalent, the present approach leads to consider Discrete Fourier Transforms, which eventually results in obtaining explicit expressions for the wave functions in terms of finite sums, and allows the use of efficient algorithms based on the Fast Fourier Transform. The wave functions here obtained govern the probability of finding the particle at any given location, but determine as well the exit-time probability of the walker from a fixed interval, which is also analyzed.

id: 1306.5992
title: Interpolatability distinguishes LOCC from separable von Neumann measurements
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Debbie Leung, Laura Mancinska, Maris Ozols
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 54, 112204 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5992
abstract: Local operations with classical communication (LOCC) and separable operations are two classes of quantum operations that play key roles in the study of quantum entanglement. Separable operations are strictly more powerful than LOCC, but no simple explanation of this phenomenon is known. We show that, in the case of von Neumann measurements, the ability to interpolate measurements is an operational principle that sets apart LOCC and separable operations.

