id: 1306.0050
title: Hyperentanglement concentration for two-photon four-qubit systems with linear optics
authors: Bao-Cang Ren, Fang-Fang Du, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0050
abstract: Hyperentanglement, defined as the entanglement in several degrees of freedom (DOFs) of a quantum system, has attracted much attention recently. Here we investigate the possibility of concentrating the two-photon four-qubit systems in partially hyperentangled states in both the spatial mode and the polarization DOFs with linear optics. We first introduce our parameter-splitting method to concentrate the systems in the partially hyperentangled states with known parameters, including partially hyperentangled Bell states and cluster states. Subsequently, we present another two nonlocal hyperentanglement concentration protocols (hyper-ECPs) for the systems in partially hyperentangled unknown states, resorting to the Schmidt projection method. It will be shown that our parameter-splitting method is very efficient for the concentration of the quantum systems in partially entangled states with known parameters, resorting to linear-optical elements only. All these four hyper-ECPs are feasible with current technology and they may be useful in long-distance quantum communication based on hyperentanglement as they require only linear optical elements.

id: 1306.0053
title: Scalable photonic quantum computing assisted by quantum-dot spin in double-sided optical microcavity
authors: Hai-Rui Wei, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Opt. Express 21, 17671-17685 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0053
abstract: We investigate the possibility to achieve scalable photonic quantum computing by the giant optical circular birefringence induced by a quantum-dot spin in a double-sided optical microcavity as a result of cavity quantum electrodynamics. We construct a deterministic controlled-not gate on two photonic qubits by two single-photon input-output processes and the readout on an electron-medium spin confined in an optical resonant microcavity. This idea could be applied to multi-qubit gates on photonic qubits and we give the quantum circuit for a three-photon Toffoli gate. High fidelities and high efficiencies could be achieved when the side leakage to the cavity loss rate is low. It is worth pointing out that our devices work in both the strong and the weak coupling regimes.

id: 1306.0096
title: Generation and Confirmation of a (100x100)-dimensional entangled Quantum System
authors: Mario Krenn, Marcus Huber, Robert Fickler, Radek Lapkiewicz, Sven Ramelow, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: PNAS 111(17), 6243-6247 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0096
abstract: Entangled quantum systems have properties that have fundamentally overthrown the classical worldview. Increasing the complexity of entangled states by expanding their dimensionality allows the implementation of novel fundamental tests of nature, and moreover also enables genuinely new protocols for quantum information processing. Here we present the creation of a (100x100)-dimensional entangled quantum system, using spatial modes of photons. For its verification we develop a novel nonlinear criterion which infers entanglement dimensionality of a global state by using only information about its subspace correlations. This allows very practical experimental implementation as well as highly efficient extraction of entanglement dimensionality information. Applications in quantum cryptography and other protocols are very promising.

id: 1306.0097
title: A new class of exact solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation of a charged particle interacting with an electromagnetic plane wave in a medium
authors: Sandor Varro
comments: 24 pages. 6 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1305.4370
journal: Laser Physics Letters 11 (2014) 016001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0097
abstract: Exact solutions are presented of the Klein-Gordon equation of a charged particle moving in a classical monochromatic electromagnetic plane wave in a medium of index of refraction n < 1. The solutions are expressed in terms of Ince polynomials, which form a doubly infinite set labeled by two integer quantum numbers. These integer numbers represent quantized spectra of the momentum components of the charged particle along the polarization vector and along the propagation direction of the applied electromagnetic plane wave field. Since this field may represent a laser radiation of arbitrary high intensity propagating in an underdense plasma, the solutions obtained may have relevance, for instance, in describing possible quantum features of laser acceleration of electrons.

id: 1306.0127
title: Consistent Histories as Valuations
authors: Yousef Ghazi-Tabatabai
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0127
abstract: Sorkin's coevent interpretation shifts the focus of quantum logic from the structure of a propositional lattice to the nature of truth valuations thereon. We apply this shift in emphasis to a simple formulation of the consistent histories approach, expressing it in terms of truth valuations which are brought together in a logical framework. We see that these consistent histories valuations are related to Sorkin's multiplicative coevents, and that they can be naturally described by an adaptation of Isham's early topos-theoretic approach.

id: 1306.0130
title: Spontaneous emission can locally create quantum discord out of classical correlations
authors: M. Gwozdz, L. Jakobczyk
comments: Published version. Quantum Inf. Process. 2013
journal: Quantum Inf Process, vol. 13, 171(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0130
abstract: We consider local time evolution given by spontaneous emission in the system of independent two-level atoms. It is shown that all classically correlated initial states are driven into the states with transient non-zero quantum discord. Thus local creation of genuine quantum correlations can be observed in a simple physical system of non-interacting atoms which are not completely isolated from the environment.

id: 1306.0159
title: The Ghost in the Quantum Turing Machine
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 85 pages (more a short book than a long essay!), 2 figures. To appear in "The Once and Future Turing: Computing the World," a collection edited by S. Barry Cooper and Andrew Hodges. And yes, I know Turing is 101 by now. v2: Corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Literature (cs.GL); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0159
abstract: In honor of Alan Turing's hundredth birthday, I unwisely set out some thoughts about one of Turing's obsessions throughout his life, the question of physics and free will. I focus relatively narrowly on a notion that I call "Knightian freedom": a certain kind of in-principle physical unpredictability that goes beyond probabilistic unpredictability. Other, more metaphysical aspects of free will I regard as possibly outside the scope of science. I examine a viewpoint, suggested independently by Carl Hoefer, Cristi Stoica, and even Turing himself, that tries to find scope for "freedom" in the universe's boundary conditions rather than in the dynamical laws. Taking this viewpoint seriously leads to many interesting conceptual problems. I investigate how far one can go toward solving those problems, and along the way, encounter (among other things) the No-Cloning Theorem, the measurement problem, decoherence, chaos, the arrow of time, the holographic principle, Newcomb's paradox, Boltzmann brains, algorithmic information theory, and the Common Prior Assumption. I also compare the viewpoint explored here to the more radical speculations of Roger Penrose. The result of all this is an unusual perspective on time, quantum mechanics, and causation, of which I myself remain skeptical, but which has several appealing features. Among other things, it suggests interesting empirical questions in neuroscience, physics, and cosmology; and takes a millennia-old philosophical debate into some underexplored territory.

id: 1306.0175
title: Modulation Algorithms for Manipulating Nuclear Spin States
authors: Boyang Liu, Ming Zhang, Hong-Yi Dai
comments: 20 pages,4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0175
abstract: We exploit the impact of exact frequency modulation on transition time of steering nuclear spin states from theoretical point of view. 1-stage and 2-stage Frequency-Amplitude-Phase modulation (FAPM) algorithms are proposed in contrast with 1-stage and 3-stage Amplitude-Phase modulation (APM) algorithms. The sufficient conditions are further present for transiting nuclear spin states within the specified time by these four modulation algorithms. It is demonstrated that transition time performance can be significantly improved if exact frequency modulation is available. It is exemplified that the transition time scale with frequency modulation is about 1/4 of that without frequency modulation. It is also revealed in this research that the hybrid scheme of 1-stage FAPM and APM algorithms is better than all the four modulation algorithms. A simplified hybrid modulation algorithm is also proposed to reduce computational burden.

id: 1306.0228
title: Quantum discord for two-qubit X states: Analytical formula with very small worst-case error
authors: Yichen Huang
comments: slightly revised; published version
journal: Physical Review A 88, 014302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0228
abstract: Quantum discord is a measure of quantum correlation beyond entanglement. Computing quantum discord for simple quantum states is a basic problem. An analytical formula of quantum discord for two-qubit X states is first claimed in [Ali, Rau, and Alber, Phys. Rev. A 81, 042105 (2010)], but later found to be not always correct. I observe numerically that the formula is valid with worst-case absolute error 0.0021. For symmetric two-qubit X states, I give a counterexample to the analytical formula derived in [F. F. Fanchini et al., Phys. Rev. A 81, 052107 (2010)], but observe that the formula is valid with worst-case absolute error 0.0006. The formula has been used in many research papers. The results in all these works are approximately correct, even if they may not be exactly correct.

id: 1306.0261
title: Propagators in two-dimensional lattices
authors: Emerson Sadurn¨ª
comments: 44 pages, 9 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0261
abstract: This paper is devoted to the computation of discrete propagators in two-dimensional crystals and their application to a number of time dependent problems. The methods to compute such kernels are provided by a tight-binding representation of Dirac matrices and the generalizations of Bessel functions. Diffusive effects of point-like distributions on crystalline sheets are studied in a second quantization scheme. In the last part, a compendium of propagators is presented. The cases of square, triangular and hexagonal arrays are covered.

id: 1306.0276
title: Super sub-wavelength patterns in photon coincidence detection
authors: Ruifeng Liu, Pei Zhang, Yu Zhou, Hong Gao, Fuli Li
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, comments are welcome
journal: Sci. Rep. 4, 4068 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0276
abstract: High-precision measurements implemented by means of light is desired in all fields of science. However, light is a wave and Rayleigh criterion gives us a diffraction limitation in classical optics which restricts to get arbitrary high resolution. Sub-wavelength interference has a potential application in lithography to beat the classical Rayleigh limit of resolution. We carefully study the second-order correlation theory to get the physics behind sub-wavelength interference in photon coincidence detection. A Young's double-slit experiment with pseudo-thermal light is carried out to test the second-order correlation pattern. The result shows that when different scanning ways of two point detectors are chosen, one can get super sub-wavelength interference patterns. We then give a theoretical explanation to this surprising result, and find this explanation is also suitable for the result by using entangled light. Furthermore, we discuss the limitation of this kind of super sub-wavelength interference patterns in quantum lithography.

id: 1306.0284
title: Some Topics in Quantum Games
authors: Y. Avishai
comments: 96 pages out of which 36 are elementary level appendices. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0503176 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0284
abstract: This work, based on the author's MA thesis, concentrates on simultaneous move quantum games of two players. A numerical algorithm based on the method of best response functions, designed to search for pure strategy Nash equilibrium in quantum games is constructed. It is then used show that there is a critical degree of entanglement above which a pure strategy Nash Equilibrium does not exist. The behavior of the two payoffs approach the cooperative classical ones. Bayesian quantum games are defined, and it is shown that under certain conditions, there {\it is} a pure strategy Nash equilibrium in such games even when entanglement is maximal. The basic ingredients of a quantum game based on a two-players {\it three} decisions classical games are presented. This requires the definition of trits (instead of bits) and quantum trits (instead of quantum bits). It is shown that in this quantum game, there is no classical commensurability in the sense that the classical strategies are not obtained as a special case of the quantum strategies. An entanglement operator transforming a pure two qutrit state into a maximally entangled one is explicitly constructed.

id: 1306.0314
title: Noise assisted Ramsey interferometry
authors: U. Dorner
comments: 8+1 pages; 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062113 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0314
abstract: I analyze a metrological strategy for improving the precision of frequency estimation via Ramsey interferometry with strings of atoms in the presence of correlated dephasing. This strategy does not employ entangled states, but rather a product state which evolves into a stationary state under the influence of correlated dephasing. It is shown that by using this state an improvement in precision compared to standard Ramsey interferometry can be gained. This improvement is not an improvement in scaling, i.e. the estimation precision has the same scaling with the number of atoms as the standard quantum limit, but an improvement proportional to the free evolution time in the Ramsey interferometer. Since a stationary state is used, this evolution time can be substantially larger than in standard Ramsey interferometry which is limited by the coherence time of the atoms.

id: 1306.0349
title: Decomposition of any quantum measurement into extremals
authors: G. Sent¨ªs, B. Gendra, S. D. Bartlett, A. C. Doherty
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 375302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0349
abstract: We design an efficient and constructive algorithm to decompose any generalized quantum measurement into a convex combination of extremal measurements. We show that if one allows for a classical post-processing step only extremal rank-1 POVMs are needed. For a measurement with $N$ elements on a $d$-dimensional space, our algorithm will decompose it into at most $(N-1)d+1$ extremals, whereas the best previously known upper bound scaled as $d^2$. Since the decomposition is not unique, we show how to tailor our algorithm to provide particular types of decompositions that exhibit some desired property.

id: 1306.0351
title: Quantum versus classical polarization states: when multipoles count
authors: L. L. Sanchez-Soto, A. B. Klimov, P. de la Hoz, G. Leuchs
comments: 8 pages, 2 color figures. Published in Journal of Physics B, special issue on 20th anniversary of quantum state engineering
journal: J. Phys. B 46, 104011 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0351
abstract: We advocate for a simple multipole expansion of the polarization density matrix. The resulting multipoles are used to construct bona fide quasiprobability distributions that appear as a sum of successive moments of the Stokes variables; the first one corresponding to the classical picture on the Poincare sphere. We employ the particular case of the $Q$ function to formulate a whole hierarchy of measures that properly assess higher-order polarization correlations.

id: 1306.0356
title: It from qubit: how to draw quantum contextuality
authors: Michel R. P. Planat
comments: FQXi Essay Contest - It from Bit or Bit from It? June 2013
journal: Information 5 (2014) 209-218
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0356
abstract: Wheeler's {\it observer-participancy} and the related {\it it from bit} credo refer to quantum non-locality and contextuality. The mystery of these concepts slightly starts unveiling if one encodes the (in)compatibilities between qubit observables in the relevant finite geometries. The main objective of this treatise is to outline another conceptual step forward by employing Grothendieck's {\it dessins d'enfants} to reveal the topological and (non)algebraic machinery underlying the measurement acts and their information content.

id: 1306.0370
title: Certifiability criterion for large-scale quantum systems
authors: Florian Fr?wis, Maarten van den Nest, Wolfgang D¨¹r
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure; V2: title changed plus minor changes in the text and some additional references
journal: New J. Phys. 15 113011 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0370
abstract: Can one certify the preparation of a coherent, many-body quantum state by measurements with bounded accuracy in the presence of noise and decoherence? Here, we introduce a criterion to assess the fragility of large-scale quantum states which is based on the distinguishability of orthogonal states after the action of very small amounts of noise. States which do not pass this criterion are called asymptotically incertifiable. We show that, if a coherent quantum state is asymptotically incertifiable, there exists an incoherent mixture (with entropy at least log 2) which is experimentally indistinguishable from the initial state. The Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states are examples of such asymptotically incertifiable states. More generally, we prove that any so-called macroscopic superposition state is asymptotically incertifiable. We also provide examples of quantum states that are experimentally indistinguishable from highly incoherent mixtures, i.e., with an almost-linear entropy in the number of qubits. Finally we show that all unique ground states of local gapped Hamiltonians (in any dimension) are certifiable.

id: 1306.0409
title: On a generalized entropic uncertainty relation in the case of the qubit
authors: Steeve Zozor, Gustavo Mart¨ªn Bosyk, Mariela Portesi
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A, 46(46): 46530, november 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0409
abstract: We revisit generalized entropic formulations of the uncertainty principle for an arbitrary pair of quantum observables in two-dimensional Hilbert space. R\'enyi entropy is used as uncertainty measure associated with the distribution probabilities corresponding to the outcomes of the observables. We derive a general expression for the tight lower bound of the sum of R\'enyi entropies for any couple of (positive) entropic indices (\alpha,\beta). Thus, we have overcome the H\"older conjugacy constraint imposed on the entropic indices by Riesz-Thorin theorem. In addition, we present an analytical expression for the tight bound inside the square [0 , 1/2] x [0 , 1/2] in the \alpha-\beta plane, and a semi-analytical expression on the line \beta = \alpha. It is seen that previous results are included as particular cases. Moreover, we present an analytical but suboptimal bound for any couple of indices. In all cases, we provide the minimizing states.

id: 1306.0410
title: Shortcuts to adiabaticity by counter-diabatic driving
authors: Adolfo del Campo
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, minor changes, typos corrected, extended list of references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 100502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0410
abstract: The evolution of a system induced by counter-diabatic driving mimics the adiabatic dynamics without the requirement of slow driving. Engineering it involves diagonalizing the instantaneous Hamiltonian of the system and results in the need of auxiliary non-local interactions for matter-waves. Here experimentally realizable driving protocols are found for a large class of single-particle, many-body, and non-linear systems without demanding the spectral properties as an input. The method is applied to the fast decompression of Bose-Einstein condensates in different trapping potentials.

id: 1306.0414
title: Experimental refutation of a class of ¦×-epistemic models
authors: M. K. Patra, L. Olislager, F. Duport, J. Safioui, S. Pironio, S. Massar
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures. v2: minor changes to "Discussion" section and to figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032112 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0414
abstract: The quantum state is a mathematical object used to determine the outcome probabilities of measurements on physical systems. Its fundamental nature has been the subject of discussions since the origin of the theory: is it ontic, that is, does it correspond to a real property of the physical system? Or is it epistemic, that is, does it merely represent our knowledge about the system? Recent advances in the foundations of quantum theory show that epistemic models that obey a simple continuity condition are in conflict with quantum theory already at the level of a single system. Here we report an experimental test of continuous epistemic models using high-dimensional attenuated coherent states of light traveling in an optical fibre. Due to non-ideal state preparation (of coherent states with imperfectly known phase) and non-ideal measurements (arising from losses and inefficient detection), this experiment only tests epistemic models that satisfy additional constraints which we discuss in detail. Our experimental results are in agreement with the predictions of quantum theory and provide constraints on a class of \psi-epistemic models.

id: 1306.0415
title: Equivalence between an optomechanical system and a Kerr medium
authors: Samuel Aldana, Christoph Bruder, Andreas Nunnenkamp
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043826 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0415
abstract: We study the optical bistability of an optomechanical system in which the position of a mechanical oscillator modulates the cavity frequency. The steady-state mean-field equation of the optical mode is identical to the one for a Kerr medium, and thus we expect it to have the same characteristic behavior with a lower, a middle, and an upper branch. However, the presence of position fluctuations of the mechanical resonator leads to a new feature: the upper branch will become unstable at sufficiently strong driving in certain parameter regimes. We identify the appropriate parameter regime for the upper branch to be stable, and we confirm, by numerical investigation of the quantum steady state, that the mechanical mode indeed acts as a Kerr nonlinearity for the optical mode in the low-temperature limit. This equivalence of the optomechanical system and the Kerr medium will be important for future applications of cavity optomechanics in quantum nonlinear optics and quantum information science.

id: 1306.0418
title: Signatures of the differential Klein-Nishina electronic cross section in Compton's quantum theory of scattering of radiation
authors: Vinay Venugopal, Piyush S Bhagdikar
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0418
abstract: A quantum theory of scattering of radiation by a stationary free electron based on photon conception and relativistic kinematics, applying the principles of conservation of energy and conservation of momentum was proposed by Compton to explain the scattering of X-rays and {\gamma}-rays by light elements. The relativistic differential cross-section for the Compton scattering of a photon by a stationary free electron was formulated by Klein and Nishina using Dirac's relativistic theory of electrons, and has been verified experimentally, when the binding energy of the electron is negligible compared to the incident photon energy. Here we show that the energy of scattered photons, and kinetic energy of recoiled electrons obtained from Compton's quantum theory of scattering of radiation, show a degree of matching (that increases with the increase of incident photon energy as quantified by chi-square test) with the differential Klein-Nishina electronic cross section per electron per unit solid angle for the scattering of an unpolarized photon by a stationary free electron when appropriate normalizations are invoked. There is a high degree of matching in a regime where the total electronic Klein-Nishina cross section for the Compton scattering on a free stationary electron scales as the inverse of the incident photon energy and the contribution of the electro-magnetic interaction to differential electronic cross section diminishes. Our results have significant implications to the foundations of quantum mechanics and to the understanding of the mechanisms of photon-electron interactions in the Compton scattering.

id: 1306.0427
title: Teleporting photonic qudits using multimode quantum scissors
authors: Sandeep K Goyal, Thomas Konrad
comments: Published in Nature Scientific Reports
journal: Nature Scientific Reports 3, 3548 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0427
abstract: Teleportation plays an important role in the communication of quantum information between the nodes of a quantum network and is viewed as an essential ingredient for long-distance Quantum Cryptography. We describe a method to teleport the quantum information carried by a photon in a superposition of a number $d$ of light modes (a "qudit") by the help of $d$ additional photons based on transcription. A qudit encoded into a single excitation of $d$ light modes (in our case Laguerre-Gauss modes which carry orbital angular momentum) is transcribed to $d$ single-rail photonic qubits, which are spatially separated. Each single-rail qubit consists of a superposition of vacuum and a single photon in each one of the modes. After successful teleportation of each of the $d$ single-rail qubits by means of "quantum scissors" they are converted back into a qudit carried by a single photon which completes the teleportation scheme.

id: 1306.0430
title: Genuine fidelity gaps associated with a sequential decomposition of genuinely entangling isometry and unitary operations
authors: Hamed Saberi
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062315 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0430
abstract: We draw attention to the existence of "genuine" fidelity gaps in an ancilla-assisted sequential decomposition of genuinely entangling isometry and unitary operations of quantum computing. The gaps arise upon a bipartite decomposition of a multiqubit operation in a one-way sequential recipe in which an ancillary system interacts locally and only once with each qubit in a row. Given the known "no-go" associated with such a theoretically and experimentally desirable decomposition, various figures of merit are introduced to analyze the optimal "fidelity" with which an arbitrary genuinely entangling operation may admit such a sequential decomposition. An efficient variational matrix-product-operator (VMPO) protocol is invoked in order to obtain numerically the minimal values of the fidelity gaps incurred upon sequential decomposition of genuine entanglers. We term the values of the gaps so obtained genuine in the light of possible connections to the concept of the genuine multipartite entanglement and since they are independent of the ancilla dimension and the initial states the associated unitaries act upon.

id: 1306.0447
title: Secure multiparty quantum computation based on bit commitment
authors: Min Liang
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0447
abstract: This paper studies secure multiparty quantum computation (SMQC) without nonlocal measurements. Firstly, this task is reduced to secure two-party quantum computation of nonlocal controlled-NOT (NL-CNOT) gate. Then, in the passive adversaries model, the secure computation of NL-CNOT is reduced to bit commitment. Thus, a SMQC scheme can be constructed based on bit commitment. This scheme does not depend on trusted third party, and is secure in the passive adversaries model. It is also pointed out that a vulnerability exists in any secure two-party quantum computation protocol of NL-CNOT gate.

id: 1306.0467
title: Quantum State Tomography with incomplete data: Maximum Entropy and Variational Quantum Tomography
authors: D. S. Gon?alves, C. Lavor, M. A. Gomes-Ruggiero, A. T. Ces¨¢rio, R. O. Vianna, T. O. Maciel
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052140 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0467
abstract: Whenever we do not have an informationally complete set of measurements, the estimate of a quantum state can not be uniquely determined. In this case, among the density matrices compatible with the available data, it is commonly preferred that one which is the most uncommitted with the missing information. This is the purpose of the Maximum Entropy estimation (MaxEnt) and the Variational Quantum Tomography (VQT). Here, we propose a variant of Variational Quantum Tomography and show its relationship with Maximum Entropy methods in quantum tomographies with incomplete set of measurements. We prove their equivalence in case of eigenbasis measurements, and through numerical simulations we stress their similar behavior. Hence, in the modified VQT formulation we have an estimate of a quantum state as unbiased as in MaxEnt and with the benefit that VQT can be more efficiently solved by means of linear semidefinite programs.

id: 1306.0495
title: A universal set of qubit quantum channels
authors: Daniel Braun, Olivier Giraud, Ion Nechita, Clement Pellegrini, Marko Znidaric
comments: 34 pages of revtex, 3 figures. v2: minor typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 135302 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0495
abstract: We investigate the set of quantum channels acting on a single qubit. We provide an alternative, compact generalization of the Fujiwara-Algoet conditions for complete positivity to non-unital qubit channels, which we then use to characterize the possible geometric forms of the pure output of the channel. We provide universal sets of quantum channels for all unital qubit channels as well as for all extremal (not necessarily unital) qubit channels, in the sense that all qubit channels in these sets can be obtained by concatenation of channels in the corresponding universal set. We also show that our universal sets are essentially minimal.

id: 1306.0498
title: Non-Zero Syndromes and Syndrome Measurement Order for the [[7,1,3]] Quantum Error Correction Code
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, completely redone to take into account different possible syndrome measurement orders
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0498
abstract: The [[7,1,3]] quantum error correction code uses sets of three syndrome measurements to separately detect bit-flip and phase-flip errors. To comply with the strictures of fault tolerance and thus stem the possible spread of errors to multiple qubits, each set of syndromes is repeated twice. Still, there remains flexibility in the order in which the sets of syndromes are implemented. Here we explore different orders noting that the best choice of syndrome order, determined by the fidelity of the state after noisy error correction, will depend on whether or not an error is detected. To put these results in proper context we first explore the effect on output state fidelity of detecting an error. We find that this fidelity is significantly lower than when no error is detected and may decrease when the single qubit error probabilities decrease.

id: 1306.0508
title: Witnessing negativity of Wigner function by estimating fidelities of cat-like states from homodyne measurements
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek, Miroslav Jezek
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062115 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0508
abstract: We derive sampling functions for estimation of quantum state fidelity with Schr\"odinger cat-like states, which are defined as superpositions of two coherent states with opposite amplitudes. We also provide sampling functions for fidelity with squeezed Fock states that can approximate the cat-like states and can be generated from Gaussian squeezed states by conditional photon subtraction. The fidelities can be determined by averaging the sampling functions over quadrature statistics measured by homodyne detection. The sampling functions are designed such that they can compensate for losses and inefficient homodyning provided that the overall efficiency exceeds certain threshold. The fidelity with an odd coherent state and the fidelity with a squeezed odd Fock state provide convenient witnesses of negativity of Wigner function of the measured state. The negativity of Wigner function at the origin of phase space is certified if any of these fidelities exceeds 0.5. Finally, we discuss the possibility of reducing the statistical uncertainty of the fidelity estimates by a suitable choice of the dependence of the number of quadrature samples on the relative phase shift between local oscillator and signal beam.

id: 1306.0510
title: Embedding Quantum Simulators for Quantum Computation of Entanglement
authors: R. Di Candia, B. Mejia, H. Castillo, J. S. Pedernales, J. Casanova, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 240502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0510
abstract: We introduce the concept of embedding quantum simulators, a paradigm allowing the efficient quantum computation of a class of bipartite and multipartite entanglement monotones. It consists in the suitable encoding of a simulated quantum dynamics in the enlarged Hilbert space of an embedding quantum simulator. In this manner, entanglement monotones are conveniently mapped onto physical observables, overcoming the necessity of full tomography and reducing drastically the experimental requirements. Furthermore, this method is directly applicable to pure states and, assisted by classical algorithms, to the mixed-state case. Finally, we expect that the proposed embedding framework paves the way for a general theory of enhanced one-to-one quantum simulators.

id: 1306.0556
title: Optimal Lyapunov quantum control on two-level systems: convergence and extended techniques
authors: L. C. Wang, S. C. Hou, X. X. Yi, Daoyi Dong, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 9 Pages, 7 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0556
abstract: Taking a two-level system as an example, we show that a strong control field may enhance the efficiency of optimal Lyapunov quantum control in [Hou et al., Phys. Rev. A \textbf{86}, 022321 (2012)] but could decrease its control fidelity. A relationship between the strength of the control field and the control fidelity is established. An extended technique, which combines free evolution and external control, is proposed to improve the control fidelity. We analytically demonstrate that the extended technique can be used to design a control law for steering a two-level system exactly to the target state. In such a way, the convergence of the extended optimal Lyapunov quantum control can be guaranteed.

id: 1306.0579
title: Elementary cycles of time
authors: Donatello Dolce
comments: 5 pages. Accepted for publication on Eur.Phys.J. Web of Conferences (2013). Talk given at TM2012 ("the Time Machine Factory 2012"), Turin, Italy. Comments welcome
journal: Eur.Phys.J. Web of Conferences 58, 01018 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0579
abstract: Elementary particles, i.e. the basic constituents of nature, are characterized by quantum recurrences in time. The flow of time of every physical system can be therefore decomposed in elementary cycles of time. This allows us to enforce the local nature of relativistic time, yielding interesting unified descriptions of fundamental aspects of modern physics, as shown in recent publications and reviewed in [arXiv:1305.2802]. Every particle can be regarded as a reference clock with time resolution of the order of its Compton time, typically many orders of magnitude more accurate than the atomic clocks. Here we summarize basic conceptual aspects of the resulting relational interpretation of the relativistic time flow.

id: 1306.0583
title: Photonic circuits for iterative decoding of a class of low-density parity-check codes
authors: Dmitri S. Pavlichin, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0583
abstract: Photonic circuits in which stateful components are coupled via guided electromagnetic fields are natural candidates for native implementation of iterative stochastic algorithms based on propagation of information around a graph. Conversely, such message passing algorithms suggest novel circuit architectures for signal processing and computation that are well matched to nanophotonic device physics. Here we construct and analyze a quantum optical model of a photonic circuit for iterative decoding of a class of low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes called expander codes. Our circuit can be understood as an open quantum system whose autonomous dynamics map straightforwardly onto the subroutines of an LDPC decoding scheme, with several attractive features: it can operate in the ultra-low power regime of photonics in which quantum fluctuations become significant, is robust to noise and component imperfections, achieves comparable performance to known iterative algorithms for this class of codes, and provides an instructive example of how nanophotonic cavity quantum electrodynamic components can enable useful new information technology even if the solid-state qubits on which they are based are heavily dephased and cannot support large-scale entanglement.

id: 1306.0589
title: Spectral and Parametric Averaging for Integrable Systems
authors: Tao Ma, R.A. Serota
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0589
abstract: We analyze two theoretical approaches to ensemble averaging for integrable systems in quantum chaos - spectral averaging and parametric averaging. For spectral averaging, we introduce a new procedure - rescaled spectral averaging. Unlike traditional spectral averaging, it can describe the correlation function of spectral staircase and produce persistent oscillations of the interval level number variance. Parametric averaging, while not as accurate as rescaled spectral averaging for the correlation function of spectral staircase and interval level number variance, can also produce persistent oscillations of the global level number variance and better describes saturation level rigidity as a function of the running energy. Overall, it is the most reliable method for a wide range of statistics.

id: 1306.0603
title: Robust site-resolved quantum gates in an optical lattice via inhomogeneous control
authors: Jae Hoon Lee, Enrique Montano, Ivan H. Deutsch, Poul S. Jessen
comments: Originally submitted version. Longer version with some substantive edits to appear in Nature Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0603
abstract: Ultracold atoms in optical lattices are an important platform for quantum information science, lending itself naturally to quantum simulation of many-body physics and providing a possible path towards a scalable quantum computer. To realize its full potential, atoms at individual lattice sites must be accessible to quantum control and measurement. This challenge has so far been met with a combination of high-resolution microscopes and resonance addressing that have enabled both site-resolved imaging and spin-flips. Here we show that methods borrowed from the field of inhomogeneous control can greatly increase the performance of resonance addressing in optical lattices, allowing us to target arbitrary single-qubit gates on desired sites, with minimal crosstalk to neighboring sites and greatly improved robustness against uncertainty in the lattice position. We further demonstrate the simultaneous implementation of different gates at adjacent sites with a single global control waveform. Coherence is verified through two-pulse Ramsey interrogation, and randomized benchmarking is used to measure an average gate fidelity of ~95%. Our control-based approach to reduce crosstalk and increase robustness is broadly applicable in optical lattices irrespective of geometry, and may be useful also on other platforms for quantum information processing, such as ion traps and nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond.

id: 1306.0619
title: Direct Measurement of a 27-Dimensional Orbital-Angular-Momentum State Vector
authors: Mehul Malik, Mohammad Mirhosseini, Martin P. J. Lavery, Jonathan Leach, Miles J. Padgett, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Communications 5:3115 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0619
abstract: The measurement of a quantum state poses a unique challenge for experimentalists. Recently, the technique of "direct measurement" was proposed for characterizing a quantum state in-situ through sequential weak and strong measurements. While this method has been used for measuring polarization states, its real potential lies in the measurement of states with a large dimensionality. Here we show the practical direct measurement of a high-dimensional state vector in the discrete basis of orbital-angular momentum. Through weak measurements of orbital-angular momentum and strong measurements of angular position, we measure the complex probability amplitudes of a pure state with a dimensionality, d=27. Further, we use our method to directly observe the relationship between rotations of a state vector and the relative phase between its orbital-angular-momentum components. Our technique has important applications in high-dimensional classical and quantum information systems, and can be extended to characterize other types of large quantum states.

id: 1306.0642
title: Dephasing-assisted parameter estimation in the presence of dynamical decoupling
authors: Qing-Shou Tan, Yixiao Huang, Le-Man Kuang, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0642
abstract: We study the dephasing-assisted precision of parameter estimation (PPE) enhancement in atom interferometer under dynamical decoupling (DD) pulses. Through calculating spin squeezing (SS) and quantum Fisher information (QFI), we find that dephasing noise can improve PPE by inducing SS, and the DD pulses can maximize the improvement. It is indicated that in the presence of DD pulses, the dephasing-induced SS can reach the limit of \textquotedblleft one-axis twisting\textquotedblright\ model, $\xi^2\simeq N^{-2/3}$ with $\xi^2$ being the SS parameter and N the number of atoms. In particular, we find that the DD pulses can amplify the dephasing-induced QFI by a factor of $\simeq N/2$ compared with the noise-free case, which means that under the control of DD pulses, the dephasing noise can enhance the PPE to the scale of $\sqrt{2}/N$, the same order of magnitude of Heisenberg limit (1/N).

id: 1306.0667
title: Invisible defects in complex crystals
authors: S. Longhi, G. Della Valle
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics 334, 35 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0667
abstract: We show that invisible localized defects, i.e. defects that can not be detected by an outside observer, can be realized in a crystal with an engineered imaginary potential at the defect site. The invisible defects are synthesized by means of supersymmetric (Darboux) transformations of an ordinary crystal using band-edge wave functions to construct the superpotential. The complex crystal has an entire real-valued energy spectrum and Bragg scattering is not influenced by the defects. An example of complex crystal synthesis is presented for the Mathieu potential.

id: 1306.0669
title: Shared Purity of Multipartite Quantum States
authors: Anindya Biswas, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, REVTeX 4.1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032331 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0669
abstract: Fidelity plays an important role in measuring distances between pairs of quantum states, of single as well as multiparty systems. Based on the concept of fidelity, we introduce a physical quantity, shared purity, for arbitrary pure or mixed quantum states of shared systems of an arbitrary number of parties in arbitrary dimensions. We find that it is different from quantum correlations. However, we prove that a maximal shared purity between two parties excludes any shared purity of these parties with a third party, thus ensuring its quantum nature. Moreover, we show that all generalized GHZ states are monogamous, while all generalized W states are non-monogamous with respect to this measure. We apply the quantity to investigate the quantum XY spin models, and observe that it can faithfully detect the quantum phase transition present in these models. We perform a finite-size scaling analysis and find the scaling exponent for this quantity.

id: 1306.0672
title: Experimental Single-Photon Transmission from Satellite to Earth
authors: Juan Yin, Yuan Cao, Shu-Bin Liu, Ge-Sheng Pan, Jin-Hong Wang, Tao Yang, Zhong-Ping Zhang, Fu-Min Yang, Yu-Ao Chen, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0672
abstract: Free-space quantum communication with satellites opens a promising avenue for global secure quantum network and large-scale test of quantum foundations. Recently, numerous experimental efforts have been carried out towards this ambitious goal. However, one essential step - transmitting single photons from the satellite to the ground with high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at realistic environments - remains experimental challenging. Here, we report a direct experimental demonstration of the satellite-ground transmission of a quasi-single-photon source. In the experiment, single photons (~0.85 photon per pulse) are generated by reflecting weak laser pulses back to earth with a cube-corner retro-reflector on the satellite Champ, collected by a 600-mm diameter telescope at the ground station, and finally detected by single-photon counting modules (SPCMs) after 400-km free-space link transmission. With the help of high accuracy time synchronization, narrow receiver field-of-view (FOV) and high-repetition-rate pulses (76 MHz), a SNR of better than 16:1 is obtained, which is sufficient for a secure quantum key distribution. Our experimental results represent an important step towards satellite-ground quantum communication.

id: 1306.0674
title: Quantum Correlations Induced by Local von Neumann Measurement
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Ting-Gui Zhang, Zong-Guo Li, Xianqing Li-Jost, Shao-Ming Fei, De-Shou Zhong
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Int J Theor Phys, 52, 2379 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0674
abstract: We study the total quantum correlation, semiquantum correlation and joint quantum correlation induced by local von Neumann measurement in bipartite system.We analyze the properties of these quantum correlations and obtain analytical formula for pure states. The experimental witness for these quantum correlations is further provided and the significance of these quantum correlations is discussed in the context of local distinguishability of quantum states.

id: 1306.0675
title: Absence of Floquet scattering in oscillating non-Hermitian potential wells
authors: S. Longhi, G. Della Valle
comments: 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052116 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0675
abstract: Scattering of a quantum particle from an oscillating barrier or well does not generally conserve the particle energy owing to energy exchange with the photon field, and an incoming particle-free state is scattered into a set of outgoing (transmitted and reflected) free states according to Floquet scattering theory. Here we introduce two families of oscillating non-Hermitian potential wells in which Floquet scattering is fully suppressed for any energy of the incident particle. The scattering-free oscillating potentials are synthesized by application of the Darboux transformation to the time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation. For one of the two families of scattering-free potentials, the oscillating potential turns out to be fully invisible.

id: 1306.0676
title: Improving the quality of spatial quantum channels
authors: Ning Tang, Zi-Long Fan, Hao-Sheng Zeng
comments: 6 pages, 4 figutes
journal: Quant. Inform. Comput. 15 (2015) 0568
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0676
abstract: We show, for the non-Markovian or time-dependent Markovian process, by breaking up a spatial quantum channel (SQC) into a series of periodically arranged sub-components, that the quality of information transmission described by the purity, fidelity and concurrence of the output states can be improved. The relation to the quantum zero effect and possible applications of the idea have been discussed.

id: 1306.0677
title: Transparency at the interface between two isospectral crystals
authors: S. Longhi, G. Della Valle
comments: 4 figures, to appear in EPL
journal: EPL, 102 (2013) 40008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0677
abstract: Reflection at an interface separating two different media is a rather universal phenomenon which arises because of wave mismatching at the interface. By means of supersymmetric quantum mechanics methods, it is shown that a fully transparent interface can be realized, connecting two isospectral but different one-dimensional crystals. An example of reflectionless interface is presented for the sinusoidal (Mathieu) crystal connected to a non-sinusoidal potential by a transparent domain wall.

id: 1306.0683
title: Dynamic localization in Glauber-Fock lattices
authors: S. Longhi, A. Szameit
comments: 3 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 25, 035603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0683
abstract: Glauber-Fock lattices refer to a special class of semi-infinite tight-binding lattices with inhomogeneous hopping rates which are found in certain simple solid-state, quantum optics and quantum field theoretical models. Here it is shown that dynamic localization, i.e. suppression of quantum diffusion and periodic quantum self-imaging by an external sinusoidal force [D.H. Dunlap and V.M. Kenkre, Phys. Rev. B {\bf 34}, 3625 (1986)], can be exactly realized in Glauber-Fock lattices, in spite of inhomogeneity of hopping rates and lattice truncation.

id: 1306.0690
title: Dynamical Steady-States in Driven Quantum Systems
authors: T. M. Stace, A. C. Doherty, D. J. Reilly
comments: 5 pages. Supplementary Information available on request
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0690
abstract: We derive dynamical equations for a driven, dissipative quantum system in which the environment- induced relaxation rate is comparable to the Rabi frequency, avoiding assumptions on the frequency dependence of the environmental coupling. When the environmental coupling varies significantly on the scale of the Rabi frequency, secular or rotating wave approximations break down. Our approach avoids these approximations, yielding dynamical, periodic steady-states. This is important for the qualitative and quantitative description of the interaction between driven quantum dots and their phonon environment. The theory agrees well with recent experiments, describing the transition from asymmetric unsaturated resonances at weak driving to population inversion at strong driving.

id: 1306.0692
title: Quantum simulation of the Riemann-Hurwitz zeta function
authors: Boyan T. Torosov, Giuseppe Della Valle, Stefano Longhi
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032103 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0692
abstract: We propose a simple realization of a quantum simulator of the Riemann-Hurwitz (RH) \zeta\ function based on a truncation of its Dirichlet representation. We synthesize a nearest-neighbour-interaction Hamiltonian, satisfying the property that the temporal evolution of the autocorrelation function of an initial bare state of the Hamiltonian reproduces the RH function along the line \sigma+i \omega t of the complex plane, with \sigma>1. The tight-binding Hamiltonian with engineered hopping rates and site energies can be implemented in a variety of physical systems, including trapped ion systems and optical waveguide arrays. The proposed method is scalable, which means that the simulation can be in principle arbitrarily accurate. Practical limitations of the suggested scheme, arising from a finite number of lattice sites N and from decoherence, are briefly discussed.

id: 1306.0698
title: Non-Hermitian shortcut to adiabaticity
authors: Boyan T. Torosov, Giuseppe Della Valle, Stefano Longhi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0698
abstract: A non-Hermitian shortcut to adiabaticity is introduced. By adding an imaginary term in the diagonal elements of the Hamiltonian of a two state quantum system, we show how one can cancel the nonadiabatic losses and perform an arbitrarily fast population transfer, without the need to increase the coupling. We apply this technique to two popular level-crossing models: the Landau-Zener model and the Allen-Eberly model.

id: 1306.0699
title: Composite stimulated Raman adiabatic passage
authors: Boyan T. Torosov, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 043418 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0699
abstract: We introduce a high-fidelity technique for coherent control of three-state quantum systems, which combines two popular control tools --- stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) and composite pulses. By using composite sequences of pairs of partly delayed pulses with appropriate phases the nonadiabatic transitions, which prevent STIRAP from reaching unit fidelity, can be canceled to an arbitrary order by destructive interference, and therefore the technique can be made arbitrarily accurate. The composite phases are given by simple analytic formulas, and they are universal for they do not depend on the specific pulse shapes, the pulse delay and the pulse areas.

id: 1306.0702
title: Computational relativistic quantum dynamics and its application to relativistic tunneling and Kapitza-Dirac scattering
authors: Heiko Bauke, Michael Klaiber, Enderalp Yakaboylu, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan, Sven Ahrens, Carsten M¨¹ller, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 
journal: Proc. SPIE 8780, High-Power, High-Energy, and High-Intensity Laser Technology; and Research Using Extreme Light: Entering New Frontiers with Petawatt-Class Lasers, article 87801Q (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0702
abstract: Computational methods are indispensable to study the quantum dynamics of relativistic light-matter interactions in parameter regimes where analytical methods become inapplicable. We present numerical methods for solving the time-dependent Dirac equation and the time-dependent Klein-Gordon equation and their implementation on high performance graphics cards. These methods allow us to study tunneling from hydrogen-like highly charged ions in strong laser fields and Kapitza-Dirac scattering in the relativistic regime.

id: 1306.0716
title: Lieb-Robinson bounds and the simulation of time evolution of local observables in lattice systems
authors: Martin Kliesch, Christian Gogolin, Jens Eisert
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures; book chapter
journal: L. D. Site and V. Bach (eds.), Many-Electron Approaches in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics (Springer: Mathematical Physics Studies, 2014), pp. 301-318
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0716
abstract: This is an introductory text reviewing Lieb-Robinson bounds for open and closed quantum many-body systems. We introduce the Heisenberg picture for time-dependent local Liouvillians and state a Lieb-Robinson bound that gives rise to a maximum speed of propagation of correlations in many body systems of locally interacting spins and fermions. Finally, we discuss a number of important consequences concerning the simulation of time evolution and properties of ground states and stationary states.

id: 1306.0719
title: Identification of a reversible quantum gate: assessing the resources
authors: Giulio Chiribella, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Martin Roetteler
comments: 24 + 8 pages, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 103019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0719
abstract: We assess the resources needed to identify a reversible quantum gate among a finite set of alternatives, including in our analysis both deterministic and probabilistic strategies. Among the probabilistic strategies we consider unambiguous gate discrimination, where errors are not tolerated but inconclusive outcomes are allowed, and we prove that parallel strategies are sufficient to unambiguously identify the unknown gate with minimum number of queries. This result is used to provide upper and lower bounds on the query complexity and on the minimum ancilla dimension. In addition, we introduce the notion of generalized t-designs, which includes unitary t-designs and group representations as special cases. For gates forming a generalized t-design we give an explicit expression for the maximum probability of correct gate identification and we prove that there is no gap between the performances of deterministic strategies an those of probabilistic strategies. Hence, evaluating of the query complexity of perfect deterministic discrimination is reduced to the easier problem of evaluating the query complexity of unambiguous discrimination. Finally, we consider discrimination strategies where the use of ancillas is forbidden, providing upper bounds on the number of additional queries needed to make up for the lack of entanglement with the ancillas.

id: 1306.0742
title: Locally maximally entangleable states and W-type states
authors: Ri Qu, Juan Wang, Yan-ru Bao, Zong-shang Li
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0742
abstract: We investigate the relationship between locally maximally entangleable (LME) states and W-type states which are equivalent to a W state under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). We prove that (i) some special W-type states of three qubits are LME; and (ii) no W-type state of four and more qubits is LME. Our results show that the W state of four and more qubits cannot be prepared by using LME states under SLOCC. However, for three qubits some special LME states can be used to prepare the W state under SLOCC.

id: 1306.0812
title: Second quantization and gauge invariance
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Added some additional introductory material. Some other minor changes and correction of typos. 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0812
abstract: It is well known that the single particle Dirac equation is gauge invariant. This means that observable quantities, such as the current density, are not affected by a gauge transformation. However what happens when the method of second quantization is applied to convert a single particle theory into a field theory? In this case it will be shown that the theory is no longer gauge invariant. This will be shown by considering the second quantization of a zero mass Dirac field in 1+1 dimensions and examining the change of the current density operator due to a gauge transformation.

id: 1306.0843
title: The size of quantum superpositions as measured with "classical" detectors
authors: Pavel Sekatski, Nicolas Sangouard, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, updated version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012116 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0843
abstract: We propose a criterion which defines whether a superposition of two photonic components is macroscopic. It is based on the ability to discriminate these components with a particular class of "classical" detectors, namely a photon number measurement with a resolution coarse-grained by noise. We show how our criterion can be extended to a measure of the size of macroscopic superpositions by quantifying the amount of noise that can be tolerated and taking the distinctness of two Fock states differing by N photons as a reference. After applying our measure to several well-known examples, we demonstrate that the superpositions which meet our criterion are very sensitive to phase fluctuations. This suggests that quantifying the macroscopicity of a superposition state through the distinguishability of its components with "classical" detectors is not only a natural measure but also explains why it is difficult to observe superpositions at the macroscopic scale.

id: 1306.0849
title: Efficient separation of the orbital angular momentum eigenstates of light
authors: Mohammad Mirhosseini, Mehul Malik, Zhimin Shi, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2781 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0849
abstract: Orbital angular momentum (OAM) of light is an attractive degree of freedom for funda- mentals studies in quantum mechanics. In addition, the discrete unbounded state-space of OAM has been used to enhance classical and quantum communications. Unambiguous mea- surement of OAM is a key part of all such experiments. However, state-of-the-art methods for separating single photons carrying a large number of different OAM values are limited to a theoretical separation efficiency of about 77 percent. Here we demonstrate a method which uses a series of unitary optical transformations to enable the measurement of lights OAM with an experimental separation efficiency of more than 92 percent. Further, we demonstrate the separation of modes in the angular position basis, which is mutually unbiased with respect to the OAM basis. The high degree of certainty achieved by our method makes it particu- larly attractive for enhancing the information capacity of multi-level quantum cryptography systems.

id: 1306.0879
title: Experimental demonstration of quantum digital signatures using phase-encoded coherent states of light
authors: Patrick J. Clarke, Robert J. Collins, Vedran Dunjko, Erika Andersson, John Jeffers, Gerald S. Buller
comments: Final version submitted for publication. Some slight changes were made to the structure of the text and figures before publication. Includes Supplementary Information
journal: Nat. Commun. 3:1174 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0879
abstract: Digital signatures are frequently used in data transfer to prevent impersonation, repudiation and message tampering. Currently used classical digital signature schemes rely on public key encryption techniques, where the complexity of so-called "one-way" mathematical functions is used to provide security over sufficiently long timescales. No mathematical proofs are known for the long-term security of such techniques. Quantum digital signatures offer a means of sending a message which cannot be forged or repudiated, with security verified by information-theoretical limits and quantum mechanics. Here we demonstrate an experimental system which distributes quantum signatures from one sender to two receivers and enables message sending ensured against forging and repudiation. Additionally, we analyse the security of the system in some typical scenarios. The system is based on the interference of phase encoded coherent states of light and our implementation utilises polarisation maintaining optical fibre and photons with a wavelength of 850 nm.

id: 1306.0925
title: Understanding the effects of leakage in superconducting quantum error detection circuits
authors: Joydip Ghosh, Austin G. Fowler, John M. Martinis, Michael R. Geller
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures. Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 88, 062329 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0925
abstract: The majority of quantum error detection and correction protocols assume that the population in a qubit does not leak outside of its computational subspace. For many existing approaches, however, the physical qubits do possess more than two energy levels and consequently are prone to such leakage events. Analyzing the effects of leakage is therefore essential to devise optimal protocols for quantum gates, measurement, and error correction. In this work, we present a detailed study of leakage in a two-qubit superconducting stabilizer measurement circuit. We simulate the repeated ancilla-assisted measurement of a single $\sigma^z$ operator for a data qubit, record the outcome at the end of each measurement cycle, and explore the signature of leakage events in the obtained readout statistics. An analytic model is also developed that closely approximates the results of our numerical simulations. We find that leakage leads to destructive features in the quantum error detection scheme, making additional hardware and software protocols necessary.

id: 1306.0933
title: Analytic results in the position-dependent mass Schrodinger problem
authors: M. S. Cunha, H. R. Christiansen
comments: Some typos corrected. Version to appear in Comm. Theor. Phys. (2013)
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. vol. 60, No. 6, pp. 642-650, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0933
abstract: We investigate the Schrodinger equation for a particle with a nonuniform solitonic mass density. First, we discuss in extent the (nontrivial) position-dependent mass $V(x)=0$ case whose solutions are hypergeometric functions in $\tanh^2(x)$. Then, we consider an external hyperbolic-tangent potential. We show that the effective quantum mechanical problem is given by a Heun class equation and find analytically an eigenbasis for the space of solutions. We also compute the eigenstates for a potential of the form $V(x)=V_0 \sinh^2(x)$.

id: 1306.0950
title: Correlation quantum beats induced by non-Markovian effect
authors: Hao-Sheng Zeng, Yan-Ping Zheng, Ning Tang, Guo-You Wang
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Quantum Inf Process 12, 1637(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0950
abstract: For two qubits independently coupled to their respective structured reservoirs (Lorentzian spectrum), quantum beats for entanglement and discord are found which are the result of quantum interference between correlation oscillations induced by local non-Markovian environments. We also discuss the preservation of quantum correlations by the effective suppression of the spontaneous emission.

id: 1306.0961
title: Ultracold atoms in superlattices as quantum simulators for a spin ordering model and phenomena
authors: Godfrey E. Akpojotor
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0961
abstract: Cold atoms in optical lattices is the application of two formerly distinct aspects of physics: quantum gases from atomic physics and laser theory from quantum optics. Its use to simulate quantum phenomena and models in condensed matter physics is a growing field. The major goal is to use cold fermonic atoms in these superlattices for the simulations. We present here a theoretical proposal for simulating a spin ordering model using fermions. We demonstrate superexchange interaction in the double well and resonating valence bond (RVB) states in kagome lattice which is important for understanding the CuO2 plane of the superconducting cuprates and other magnetic frustrated materials.

id: 1306.0967
title: Sub-Compton quantum non-equilibrium and Majorana systems
authors: Samuel Colin
comments: 31 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0967
abstract: We study the Majorana equation from the point of view of the de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave theory (according to which a quantum ensemble of fermions is not only described by a spinor but also by a distribution of position configurations). Although the Majorana equation involves a mass parameter, we show that the positions undergo luminal motion. In the case of free systems, we also show that the trajectory can be strongly helical (the diameter of the helix being the Compton wavelength). On a coarse-grained level (coarse-graining with respect to the Compton wavelength), these trajectories appear subluminal. The peculiar nature of the Majorana trajectory suggests a study of the temporal evolution of quantum non-equilibrium distributions, which are distributions allowed in the pilot-wave theory, in which the configurations are not distributed according to Born's law. We do such simulations for Dirac and Majorana systems, and we investigate whether quantum non-equilibrium might survive at the sub-Compton scale in systems described by Majorana spinors.

id: 1306.0981
title: Quantum error correction for collective rotation channels on qudits
authors: Chi-Kwong Li, Mikio Nakahara, Yiu-Tung Poon, Nung-Sing Sze
comments: 14 pages, proofs are put in Appendix for clearer presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0981
abstract: We consider collective rotation channels of qudits, i.e., quantum channels with operators in the set $${\mathcal E}(m,n) = \{\underbrace{U\otimes \cdots \otimes U}_n: U \in {\mathrm{SU}}(m)\}$$. This is done by analyzing the algebra decomposition of the algebra ${\mathcal A}(m,n)$ generated by ${\mathcal E}(m,n)$. We summarize the results for the channels on qubits, and obtain the maximum dimension of the noiseless subsystem which can be used as the quantum error correction code for the channel. Then we extend the results to general $m$. In particular, it is shown that quantum error correction rate, i.e., the number of correctable qudits over the number of transmitted qudits, always approaches 1 for a suitable noiseless subsystem. Moreover, one can determine the maximum dimension of the noiseless subsystem by solving a non-trivial discrete optimization problem. The maximum dimension for the case when $m = 3$ is determined by a combination of mathematical analysis and the symbolic software Mathematica. In addition to the study of quantum error correction, the results also have implications in Lie theory and representation theory concerning the algebra ${\mathcal A}(m,n)$

id: 1306.1013
title: Tomography of a spin qubit in a double quantum dot
authors: Maki Takahashi, Stephen D. Bartlett, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, comments welcome; v2 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022120 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1013
abstract: We investigate a range of methods to perform tomography in a solid-state qubit device, for which a priori initialization and measurement of the qubit is restricted to a single basis of the Bloch sphere. We explore and compare several methods to acquire precise descriptions of additional states and measurements, quantifying both stochastic and systematic errors, ultimately leading to a tomographically-complete set that can be subsequently used in process tomography. We focus in detail on the example of a spin qubit formed by the singlet-triplet subspace of two electron spins in a GaAs double quantum dot, although our approach is quite general.

id: 1306.1027
title: Experimental test of the tradeoff relation in weak measurement
authors: Geng Chen, Yang Zou, Xiao-Ye Xu, Jian-Shun Tang, Yu-Long Li, Yong-Jian Han, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo Hai-qiao Ni, Ying Yu, Mi-feng Li, Guo-wei Zha, Zhi-Chuan Niu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 021043 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1027
abstract: An upper bound between the information gain and state reversibility of weak measurement was first developed by Y. K. Cheong and S. W. Lee [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 150402 (2012)]. Their results are valid for arbitrary d-level quantum systems. In light of the commonly used qubit system in quantum information, a sharp tradeoff relation can be obtained. In this letter, this tradeoff relation is experimentally verified with polarization encoded single photons from a quantum dot. Furthermore, a complete traversal of weak measurement operators is realized, and the mapping to the least upper bound of this tradeoff relation is obtained. Our results complement the theoretical work and provide a universal ruler for the characterization of weak measurements.

id: 1306.1035
title: Effective Photon-Photon Interactions in Largely Detuned Optomechanics
authors: Hao-Kun Li, Xue-Xin Ren, Yong-Chun Liu, Yun-Feng Xiao
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053850 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1035
abstract: We propose to realize effective beam-splitter-like and two-mode-squeezing photon-photon interactions in a strong coupling optomechanical interface by exploiting detuned driving lasers. In this interface, the transitions between the optical system and the mechanical oscillator are suppressed by the large energy offsets, therefore protecting the photon-photon interactions from mechanical dissipations. Moreover, the destructive quantum interference between the eigenmodes of the interface is capable of further reducing the effects of initial mechanical thermal occupations. The interface can serve as a universal block for photon state engineering and hybrid quantum networks in high-temperature thermal bath and without the requirement of cooling the mechanical oscillator to the ground state.

id: 1306.1048
title: Spectral and transport properties of time-periodic PT-symmetric tight-binding lattices
authors: Giuseppe Della Valle, Stefano Longhi
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 022119 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1048
abstract: We investigate the spectral properties and dynamical features of a time-periodic PT-symmetric Hamiltonian on a one-dimensional tight-binding lattice. It is shown that a high-frequency modulation can drive the system under a transition between the broken-PT and the unbroken-PT phases. The time-periodic modulation in the unbroken-PT regime results in a significant broadening of the quasi-energy spectrum, leading to a hyper-ballistic transport regime. Also, near the PT-symmetry breaking the dispersion curve of the lattice band becomes linear, with a strong reduction of quantum wave packet spreading.

id: 1306.1109
title: Mode shaping in mixed ion crystals of 40Ca2+ and 40Ca+
authors: T. Feldker, L. Pelzer, M. Stappel, P. Bachor, R. Steinborn, D. Kolbe, J. Walz, F. Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Applied Physics B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1109
abstract: We present studies of mixed Coulomb crystals of 40Ca+ and 40Ca2+ ions in a linear Paul trap. Doubly charged ions are produced by photoionisation of trapped 40Ca+ with a vacuum ultraviolet laser source and sympathetically cooled via Doppler cooled 40Ca+ ions. We investigate experimentally and theoretically the structural configurations and the vibrational modes of these mixed crystals. Our results with 40Ca2+ are an important step towards experimental realization of the proposals for mode shaping in a linear crystal and spin-dependent configuration changes from zigzag to linear as proposed by Li et al., Phys. Rev. A 87, (2013) 052304 and Phys. Rev. Lett 108, (2012) 023003 using ions excited to Rydberg states.

id: 1306.1133
title: On Kalamidas' proposal of faster than light quantum communication
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Raffaele Romano
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1133
abstract: In a recent paper, Kalamidas has advanced a new proposal of faster than light communication which has not yet been proved invalid. In this paper, by strictly sticking to the standard quantum formalism we prove that, as all previous proposals, it does not work.

id: 1306.1141
title: Efficient experimental estimation of fidelity of linear optical quantum Toffoli gate
authors: Michal Micuda, Michal Sedlak, Ivo Straka, Martina Mikova, Miloslav Dusek, Miroslav Jezek, Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, REVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 160407 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1141
abstract: We propose an efficiently measurable lower bound on quantum process fidelity of N-qubit controlled-Z gates. This bound is determined by average output state fidelities for N partially conjugate product bases. A distinct advantage of our approach is that only fidelities with product states need to be measured while keeping the total number of measurements much smaller than what is necessary for full quantum process tomography. As an application, we use this method to experimentally estimate quantum process fidelity F of a three-qubit linear optical quantum Toffoli gate and we find that F>=0.83. We also demonstrate the entangling capability of the gate by preparing GHZ-type three-qubit entangled states from input product states.

id: 1306.1142
title: Steady-state entanglement activation in optomechanical cavities
authors: Alessandro Farace, Francesco Ciccarello, Rosario Fazio, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 5+4 pages, 5+1 figures (main text + supplementary materials)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022335 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1142
abstract: Quantum discord, and a number of related indicators, are currently raising a relentless interest as a novel paradigm of non-classical correlations beyond entanglement. Beside merely fundamental aspects, various works have shown that discord is a valuable -- so far largely unexplored -- resource in quantum information processing. Along this line, quite a striking scheme is {entanglement activation}. An initial amount of discord between two disentangled parties of a multipartite system affects the dynamics so as to establish entanglement across a bipartition, which would not arise otherwise. To date, such a process was proven to be achievable only dynamically, i.e., with no guarantee of a stationary entanglement throughput in the presence of noise. Here, we discover a {\it discord-activated mechanism yielding steady-state entanglement} production in a realistic continuous-variable setup. This comprises two coupled optomechanical cavities, where the optical modes (OMs) communicate through a fiber. We first use a simplified model to highlight the creation of steady-state discord between the OMs. We show next that such discord improves the level of stationary optomechanical entanglement attainable in the system, making it more robust against temperature and thermal noise.

id: 1306.1147
title: Spin-free quantum computational simulations and symmetry adapted states
authors: James Daniel Whitfield
comments: 4+ pages. Submitted to JCP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1147
abstract: The ideas of digital simulation of quantum systems using a quantum computer parallel the original ideas of numerical simulation using a classical computer. In order for quantum computational simulations to advance to a competitive point, many techniques from classical simulations must be imported into the quantum domain. In this article, we consider the applications of symmetry in the context of quantum simulation. Building upon well established machinery, we propose a form of first quantized simulation that only requires the spatial part of the wave function, thereby allowing spin-free quantum computational simulations. We go further and discuss the preparation of N-body states with specified symmetries based on projection techniques. We consider two simple examples, molecular hydrogen and cyclopropenyl cation, to illustrate the ideas. While the methods here represent adaptations of known quantum algorithms, they are the first to explicitly deal with preparing N-body symmetry-adapted states.

id: 1306.1151
title: Magic frequencies in atom-light interaction for precision probing of the density matrix
authors: Menachem Givon, Yair Margalit, Amir Waxman, Tal David, David Groswasser, Yonathan Japha, Ron Folman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1151
abstract: We analyze theoretically and experimentally the existence of a {\it magic frequency} for which the absorption of a linearly polarized light beam by vapor alkali atoms is independent of the population distribution among the Zeeman sub-levels and the angle between the beam and a magnetic field. The phenomenon originates from a peculiar cancelation of the contributions of higher moments of the atomic density matrix, and is described using the Wigner-Eckart theorem and inherent properties of Clebsch-Gordan coefficients. One important application is the robust measurement of the hyperfine population.

id: 1306.1161
title: A quantum circuit to find discrete logarithms on ordinary binary elliptic curves in depth O(log^2 n)
authors: Martin Roetteler, Rainer Steinwandt
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures; title change and other minor changes. Accepted for publication in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1161
abstract: Improving over an earlier construction by Kaye and Zalka, Maslov et al. describe an implementation of Shor's algorithm which can solve the discrete logarithm problem on binary elliptic curves in quadratic depth O(n^2). In this paper we show that discrete logarithms on such curves can be found with a quantum circuit of depth O(log^2 n). As technical tools we introduce quantum circuits for GF(2^n) multiplication in depth O(log n) and for GF(2^n) inversion in depth O(log^2 n).

id: 1306.1184
title: Propagation and Distribution of Quantum Correlations in a Cavity QED Network
authors: Raul Coto Cabrera, Miguel Orszag
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 2013 J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 175503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1184
abstract: We study the propagation and distribution of quantum correlations through two chains of atoms inside cavities joined by optical fibers. We consider an effective Hamiltonian for the system and cavity losses, in the dressed atom picture, using the Generalized Master Equation.

id: 1306.1250
title: Coherent ultrafast measurement of time-bin encoded photons
authors: John M. Donohue, Megan Agnew, Jonathan Lavoie, Kevin J. Resch
comments: 5 pages main article, 5 pages supplementary, 5 main figures, 2 supplementary figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 153602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1250
abstract: Time-bin encoding is a robust form of optical quantum information, especially for transmission in optical fibers. To read out the information, the separation of the time bins must be larger than the detector time resolution, typically on the order of nanoseconds for photon counters. In the present work, we demonstrate a technique using a nonlinear interaction between chirped entangled time-bin photons and shaped laser pulses to perform projective measurements on arbitrary time-bin states with picosecond-scale separations. We demonstrate a tomographically-complete set of time-bin qubit projective measurements and show the fidelity of operations is sufficiently high to violate the CHSH-Bell inequality by more than 6 standard deviations.

id: 1306.1251
title: Mixed-field orientation of a thermal ensemble of linear polar molecules
authors: Juan J. Omiste, Rosario Gonz¨¢lez F¨¦rez
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1251
abstract: We present a theoretical study of the impact of an electrostatic field combined with nonresonant linearly polarized laser pulses on the rotational dynamics of a thermal ensemble of linear molecules. We solve the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation within the rigid rotor approximation for several rotational states. Using the carbonyl sulfide (OCS) molecule as a prototype, the mixed-field orientation of a thermal sample is analyzed in detail for experimentally accessible static field strengths and laser pulses. We demonstrate that for the characteristic field configuration used in current mixed-field orientation experiments, a significant orientation is obtained for rotational temperatures below 0.7K or using stronger dc fields.

id: 1306.1254
title: A Single Universal n-bit Gate for Reversible Circuit Synthesis
authors: Ahmed Younes
comments: 13 pages, 4 tables and 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1254
abstract: Many universal reversible libraries that contain more than one gate type have been proposed in the literature. Practical implementation of reversible circuits is much easier if a single gate type is used in the circuit construction. This paper proposes a reversible n-bit gate that is universal for reversible circuits synthesis. The proposed gate is extendable according to the size of the circuit. The paper shows that the size of the synthesized circuits using the proposed gate is comparable with the size of the synthesized circuits using the hybrid reversible libraries for 3-in/out reversible circuits.

id: 1306.1258
title: Quantization of Hall Conductance For Interacting Electrons on a Torus
authors: Matthew B. Hastings, Spyridon Michalakis
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures, This paper significantly simplifies the proof and tightens the bounds previously shown in arXiv:0911.4706 by the same authors. Updated to reflect published version
journal: Commun. Math. Phys., Volume 334, Issue 1, pp. 433-471, (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1258
abstract: We consider interacting, charged spins on a torus described by a gapped Hamiltonian with a unique groundstate and conserved local charge. Using quasi-adiabatic evolution of the groundstate around a flux-torus, we prove, without any averaging assumption, that the Hall conductance of the groundstate is quantized in integer multiples of e^2/h, up to exponentially small corrections in the linear size of the system. In addition, we discuss extensions to the fractional quantization case under an additional topological order assumption on the degenerate groundstate subspace.

id: 1306.1259
title: The computational complexity of density functional theory
authors: James Daniel Whitfield, Norbert Schuch, Frank Verstraete
comments: Contributed chapter to "Many-Electron Approaches in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics: A Multidisciplinary View"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1259
abstract: Density functional theory is a successful branch of numerical simulations of quantum systems. While the foundations are rigorously defined, the universal functional must be approximated resulting in a `semi'-ab initio approach. The search for improved functionals has resulted in hundreds of functionals and remains an active research area. This chapter is concerned with understanding fundamental limitations of any algorithmic approach to approximating the universal functional. The results based on Hamiltonian complexity presented here are largely based on \cite{Schuch09}. In this chapter, we explain the computational complexity of DFT and any other approach to solving electronic structure Hamiltonians. The proof relies on perturbative gadgets widely used in Hamiltonian complexity and we provide an introduction to these techniques using the Schrieffer-Wolff method. Since the difficulty of this problem has been well appreciated before this formalization, practitioners have turned to a host approximate Hamiltonians. By extending the results of \cite{Schuch09}, we show in DFT, although the introduction of an approximate potential leads to a non-interacting Hamiltonian, it remains, in the worst case, an NP-complete problem.

id: 1306.1268
title: Strong Optomechanical Squeezing of Light
authors: T. P. Purdy, P.-L. Yu, R. W. Peterson, N. S. Kampel, C. A. Regal
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 031012 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1268
abstract: We create squeezed light by exploiting the quantum nature of the mechanical interaction between laser light and a membrane mechanical resonator embedded in an optical cavity. The radiation pressure shot noise (fluctuating optical force from quantum laser amplitude noise) induces resonator motion well above that of thermally driven motion. This motion imprints a phase shift on the laser light, hence correlating the amplitude and phase noise, a consequence of which is optical squeezing. We experimentally demonstrate strong and continuous optomechanical squeezing of 1.7 +/- 0.2 dB below the shot noise level. The peak level of squeezing measured near the mechanical resonance is well described by a model whose parameters are independently calibrated and that includes thermal motion of the membrane with no other classical noise sources.

id: 1306.1269
title: Single qubit manipulation in a microfabricated surface electrode ion trap
authors: Emily Mount, So-Young Baek, Matthew Blain, Daniel Stick, Daniel Gaultney, Stephen Crain, Rachel Noek, Taehyun Kim, Peter Maunz, Jungsang Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1269
abstract: We trap individual $^{171}$Yb$^+$ ions in a surface trap microfabricated on a silicon substrate, and demonstrate a complete set of high fidelity single qubit operations for the hyperfine qubit. Trapping times exceeding 20 minutes without laser cooling, and heating rates as low as 0.8(0.1) quanta/ms indicate stable trapping conditions in these microtraps. A coherence time of more than one second, high fidelity qubit state detection and single qubit rotations are demonstrated.

id: 1306.1277
title: Misconception in Theory of Quantum Key Distribution -Reply to Renner-
authors: Osamu Hirota
comments: Proceedings of Workshop on 28th QIT of IEICE of Japan, May 27, 2013.(Extended version)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1277
abstract: It has been pointed out by Yuen that the security theory of quantum key distribution(QKD) guided by Shor-Preskill theory has serious defects, in particular their key rate theory is not correct. Theory groups of QKD tried to improve several defects. Especially, Renner employed trace distance and quantum leftover Hash Lemma. However, the present theory encountered a problem of a quantitative evaluation of security. To cope with it, he uses a wrong interpretation on the trace distance and its level epsilon_{sec}, and justifies the unconditional security of own system when epsilon_{sec} is 10^{-6 } ~ 10^{-20}. In this paper, we discuss the following problems. What is the origin of the misconception of the present theory? How does the present theory lead to the misconception?. To show their process toward the misconception, Koashi-Preskill's theory which has a typical misconception is examined. A main point of our comment is that QKD theory ignores the security requirement against attacker which is necessary to compare whole encryption schemes from classical to quantum. To clarify it, we emphasize that the trace distance itself cannot have any operational meaning such as failure probability, and it is only mathematical tool as a measure of closeness. As a result, it is given that the security with above values derived from their formulation means nothing in the general cryptological sense. In addition, I point out that a comment by Bennett and Riedel on unconditional security of QKD is not correct. Also, I point out that the experimental systems of groups of Los Alamos, Toshiba-UK, NICT, and others cannot have security guarantee even in future.

id: 1306.1279
title: Stochastic Heisenberg limit: Optimal estimation of a fluctuating phase
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Michael J. W. Hall, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 5+4 pages, to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 113601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1279
abstract: The ultimate limits to estimating a fluctuating phase imposed on an optical beam can be found using the recently derived continuous quantum Cramer-Rao bound. For Gaussian stationary statistics, and a phase spectrum scaling asymptotically as 1/omega^p with p>1, the minimum mean-square error in any (single-time) phase estimate scales as N^{-2(p-1)/(p+1)}, where N is the photon flux. This gives the usual Heisenberg limit for a constant phase (as the limit p--> infinity) and provides a stochastic Heisenberg limit for fluctuating phases. For p=2 (Brownian motion), this limit can be attained by phase tracking.

id: 1306.1311
title: The effective Hamiltonian which governs the propagation dynamics of nonspreading wave packets
authors: Chyi-Lung Lin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1311
abstract: We discuss the propagation dynamics of nonspreading wave packets. We decompose the Hamiltonian into two parts. The first part is such that wave packets is its instantaneous eigenstate and is therefore irrelevant to the propagation of the packet. The second part is shown to be the effective Hamiltonian governing the motion of the packet both classically and quantum mechanically. Thus, analogous to Ehrenfest's theorem, nonspreading wave packets offer another view point directly connecting quantum mechanics and classical mechanics. This analysis also works for non-square-integrable packets, such as Airy packets.

id: 1306.1319
title: Analytical Treatment of Coherent Excitation Transfer in FMO Complex
authors: Pallavi Bhattacharyya, K. L. Sebastian
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1319
abstract: We suggest a new method of studying coherence in finite level systems coupled to the environment and use it for the Hamiltonian that has been used to describe the light-harvesting pigment-protein complex. The method works with the adiabatic states and transforms the Hamiltonian to a form in which the terms responsible for decoherence and population relaxation are separated out. Decoherence is then accounted for non-perturbatively, and population relaxation using a Markovian master equation. Analytical results can be obtained for the seven level system and the calculations are very simple for systems with more levels. We apply the treatment to the seven level system and the results are in excellent agreement with the exact numerical results of Nalbach et al. (P. Nalbach, D. Braun, and M. Thorwart, Physical Review E, 84, 041926 (2011)). Our approach is able to account for decoherence and population relaxation separately. It is found that decoherence only causes damping of oscillations, and does not lead to transfer to the reaction centre. Population relaxation is necessary for efficient transfer to the reaction centre, in agreement with earlier findings. Our results show that the transformation to the adiabatic basis followed by a Redfield type of approach leads to results in good agreement with exact simulation.

id: 1306.1342
title: Entanglement-based linear-optical qubit amplifier
authors: Evan Meyer-Scott, Marek Bula, Karol Bartkiewicz, Anton¨ªn ?ernoch, Jan Soubusta, Thomas Jennewein, Karel Lemr
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012327 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1342
abstract: We propose a linear-optical scheme for an efficient amplification of a photonic qubit based on interaction of the signal mode with a pair of entangled ancillae. In contrast to a previous proposal for qubit amplifier by Gisin et al., [Phys Rev. Lett. 105, 070501 (2010)] the success probability of our device does not decrease asymptotically to zero with increasing gain. Moreover we show how the device can be used to restore entanglement deteriorated by transmission over a lossy channel and calculate the secure key rate for device-independent quantum key distribution.

id: 1306.1357
title: Fiber-optical switch controlled by a single atom
authors: Danny O'Shea, Christian Junge, J¨¹rgen Volz, Arno Rauschenbeutel
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1357
abstract: We demonstrate highly efficient switching of optical signals between two optical fibers controlled by a single atom. The key element of our experiment is a whispering-gallery mode bottle microresonator, which is coupled to a single atom and interfaced by two tapered fiber couplers. Even in the presence of the coupling fibers, the atom--resonator system reaches the strong coupling regime of cavity quantum electrodynamics (CQED), leading to a vacuum Rabi splitting in the excitation spectrum. We systematically investigate the switching efficiency of our system, i.e., the probability that the CQED fiber-optical switch redirects the light into the desired output. We obtain a large redirection efficiency reaching a raw fidelity of more than 60% without post-selection.

id: 1306.1362
title: Relativistic Coulomb Integrals and Zeilberger's Holonomic Systems Approach II
authors: Christoph Koutschan, Peter Paule, Sergei K. Suslov
comments: 
journal: In: Algebraic and Algorithmic Aspects of Differential and Integral Operators, Lecture Notes in Computer Science 8372, pp. 135-145, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 2014. ISBN 978-3-642-54478-1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1362
abstract: We derive the recurrence relations for relativistic Coulomb integrals directly from the integral representations with the help of computer algebra methods. In order to manage the computational complexity of this problem, we employ holonomic closure properties in a sophisticated way.

id: 1306.1383
title: Time weakens the Bell's inequalities
authors: Alejandro A. Hnilo
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1383
abstract: By taking into account that all real measurements are performed successively, during time, it is concluded that the violation of the Bell's inequalities in the Nature does not refute (even in an ideally perfect experiment) the theories holding to Local Realism, for an unavoidable additional assumption is involved. Yet, in order to be acceptable, such theories must predict different values for the factual and counterfactual time averages of probabilities or observables.

id: 1306.1420
title: Quantum computational universality of spin-3/2 Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki states beyond the honeycomb lattice
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures, title changed, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062307 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1420
abstract: Universal quantum computation can be achieved by simply performing single-spin measurements on a highly entangled resource state, such as cluster states. The family of Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki (AKLT) states has recently been explored; for example, the spin-1 AKLT chain can be used to simulate single-qubit gate operations on a single qubit, and the spin-3/2 two-dimensional AKLT state on the honeycomb lattice can be used as a universal resource. However, it is unclear whether such universality is a coincidence for the specific state or a shared feature in all two-dimensional AKLT states. Here we consider the family of spin-3/2 AKLT states on various trivalent Archimedean lattices and show that in addition to the honeycomb lattice, the spin-3/2 AKLT states on the square octagon $(4,8^2)$ and the `cross' $(4,6,12)$ lattices are also universal resource, whereas the AKLT state on the `star' $(3,12^2)$ lattice is likely not due to geometric frustration.

id: 1306.1429
title: Rotational dynamics of an asymmetric top molecule in parallel electric and non-resonant laser fields
authors: Juan J. Omiste, Rosario Gonz¨¢lez-F¨¦rez
comments: 11 pages and 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1429
abstract: We present a theoretical study of the rotational dynamics of asymmetry top molecules in an electric field and a parallel non-resonant linearly polarized laser pulse. The time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation is solved within the rigid rotor approximation. Using the benzonitrile molecule as prototype, we investigate the field-dressed dynamics for experimentally accessible field configurations and compare these results to the adiabatic predictions. We show that for an asymmetric top molecule in parallel fields, the formation of the pendular doublets and the avoided crossings between neighboring levels are the two main sources of non-adiabatic effects. We also provide the field parameters under which the adiabatic dynamics would be achieved.

id: 1306.1443
title: Universal Optimal Gates Regarding Quantum Entanglement and Discord Generating
authors: Zhe Guan, Huan He, Yong-Jian Han, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1443
abstract: Fernando Galve \emph{et al.} $[Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{110}, 010501 (2013)]$ introduced discording power for a two-qubit unitary gate to evaluate its capability to produce quantum discord, and found that a $\pi/8$ gate has maximal discording power. This work analyzes the entangling power of a two-qubit unitary gate, which reflects its ability to generate quantum entanglement in another way. Based on the renowned Cartan decomposition of two-qubit unitary gates, we show that the magic power of the $\pi/8$ gate produces maximal entanglement for a general value of purities for two-qubit states.

id: 1306.1453
title: The Ehrenfest picture and the geometry of Quantum Mechanics
authors: J. Clemente-Gallardo, G. Marmo
comments: Amsart, 17 pages. This paper is based on some lectures delivered by one of us (G. M.) at the international conference "Mathematical Structures in Quantum Systems and applications (MSQS2012)'' which took place at Benasque (Spain), July 8-14, 2012
journal: Il Nuevo Cimento C 36(3) pp 35-52, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1453
abstract: In this paper we develop a picture of Quantum Mechanics based on the description of physical observables in terms of expectation value functions, generalizing thus the so called Ehrenfest theorems for quantum dynamics. Our basic technical ingredient is the set of tools which has been developed in the last years for the geometrical formulation of Quantum Mechanics. In the new picture, we analyze the problem of the dynamical equations, the uncertainty relations and interference and illustrate the construction with the simple case of a two-level system.

id: 1306.1472
title: Work and energy gain of heat-pumped quantized amplifiers
authors: David Gelbwaser-Klimovsky, Robert Alicki, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 
journal: EPL 103, 60005 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1472
abstract: We investigate heat-pumped single-mode amplifiers of quantized fields in high-Q cavities based on non-inverted two-level systems. Their power generation is shown to crucially depend on the capacity of the quantum state of the field to accumulate useful work. By contrast, the energy gain of the field is shown to be insensitive to its quantum state. Analogies and differences with masers are explored.

id: 1306.1483
title: Superabsorption of light via quantum engineering
authors: K. D. B. Higgins, S. C. Benjamin, T. M. Stace, G. J. Milburn, B. W. Lovett, E. M. Gauger
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications, 5, Article number: 4705 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1483
abstract: Almost 60 years ago Dicke introduced the term superradiance to describe a signature quantum effect: N atoms can collectively emit light at a rate proportional to N^2. Even for moderate N this represents a significant increase over the prediction of classical physics, and the effect has found applications ranging from probing exciton delocalisation in biological systems, to developing a new class of laser, and even in astrophysics. Structures that super-radiate must also have enhanced absorption, but the former always dominates in natural systems. Here we show that modern quantum control techniques can overcome this restriction. Our theory establishes that superabsorption can be achieved and sustained in certain simple nanostructures, by trapping the system in a highly excited state while extracting energy into a non-radiative channel. The effect offers the prospect of a new class of quantum nanotechnology, capable of absorbing light many times faster than is currently possible; potential applications of this effect include light harvesting and photon detection. An array of quantum dots or a porphyrin ring could provide an implementation to demonstrate this effect.

id: 1306.1502
title: Phase space flow in the Husimi representation
authors: M. Veronez, M.A.M. de Aguiar
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1502
abstract: We derive a continuity equation for the Husimi function evolving under a general non-hermitian Hamiltonian and identify the phase space flow associated with it. For the case of unitary evolution we obtain explicit formulas for the quantum flow, which can be written as a classical part plus semiclassical corrections. These equations are the analogue of the Wigner flow, which displays several non-intuitive features like momentum inversion and motion of stagnation points. Many of these features also appear in the Husimi flow and, therefore, are not related to the negativity of the Wigner function as previously suggested. We test the exact and semiclassical formulas for a particle in a double well potential. We find that the zeros of the Husimi function are saddle points of the flow, and are always followed by a center. Merging or splitting of stagnation points, observed in the Wigner flow,does not occur because of the isolation of the Husimi zeros.

id: 1306.1539
title: Detection and Manipulation of Majorana Fermions in Circuit QED
authors: Clemens M¨¹ller, J¨¦r?me Bourassa, Alexandre Blais
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 235401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1539
abstract: Motivated by recent experimental progress towards the measurement and manipulation of Majorana fermions with superconducting circuits, we propose a device interfacing Majorana fermions with circuit quantum electrodynamics. The proposed circuit acts as a charge parity detector changing the resonance frequency of a superconducting $\lambda/4$ - resonator conditioned on the parity of charges on nearby gates. Operating at both charge and flux sweet spots, this device is highly insensitive to environmental noise. It enables high-fidelity single-shot quantum non demolition readout of the state of a pair of Majorana fermions encoding a topologically protected qubit. Additionally, the interaction permits the realization of an arbitrary phase gate on the topological qubit, closing the loop for computational completeness. Away from the charge sweet spot, this device can be used as a highly sensitive charge detector with a sensitivity better than $10^{-4} \text{e} / \sqrt{\text{Hz}}$ and bandwidth larger than $1$ MHz.

id: 1306.1565
title: Proof of Heisenberg's error-disturbance relation
authors: Paul Busch, Pekka Lahti, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: Version 2 contains a more explicit description of the significance of the error-disturbance relation, formulated here for figures of merit of measuring devices, and its contrast with approaches that use state-dependent measures of error and disturbance
journal: Physical Review Letters 111, 160405 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1565
abstract: While the slogan "no measurement without disturbance" has established itself under the name Heisenberg effect in the consciousness of the scientifically interested public, a precise statement of this fundamental feature of the quantum world has remained elusive, and serious attempts at rigorous formulations of it as a consequence of quantum theory have led to seemingly conflicting preliminary results. Here we show that despite recent claims to the contrary [Rozema et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 100404 (2012)], Heisenberg-type inequalities can be proven that describe a trade-off between the precision of a position measurement and the necessary resulting disturbance of momentum (and vice versa). More generally, these inequalities are instances of an uncertainty relation for the imprecisions of any joint measurement of position and momentum. Measures of error and disturbance are here defined as figures of merit characteristic of measuring devices. As such they are state independent, each giving worst-case estimates across all states, in contrast to previous work that is concerned with the relationship between error and disturbance in an individual state.

id: 1306.1576
title: Instability of quantum equilibrium in Bohm's dynamics
authors: Samuel Colin, Antony Valentini
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures. Minor amendments in v2. Accepted by Proc. Roy. Soc. Lond. A
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 470, 20140288 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1576
abstract: We consider Bohm's second-order dynamics for arbitrary initial conditions in phase space. In principle Bohm's dynamics allows for 'extended' nonequilibrium, with initial momenta not equal to the gradient of phase of the wave function (as well as initial positions whose distribution departs from the Born rule). We show that extended nonequilibrium does not relax in general and is in fact unstable. This is in sharp contrast with de Broglie's first-order dynamics, for which non-standard momenta are not allowed and which shows an efficient relaxation to the Born rule for positions. On this basis we argue that, while de Broglie's dynamics is a tenable physical theory, Bohm's dynamics is not. In a world governed by Bohm's dynamics there would be no reason to expect to see an effective quantum theory today (even approximately), in contradiction with observation.

id: 1306.1578
title: Emitters of $N$-photon bundles
authors: C. S¨¢nchez Mu?oz, E. del Valle, A. Gonz¨¢lez Tudela, S. Lichtmannecker, K. M¨¹ller, M. Kaniber, C. Tejedor, J.J. Finley, F.P. Laussy
comments: Introduce the n-th order N-photon correlation functions. Reorganized to emphasize the N-photon emitter, now extended to the antibunching regime, rather than only coherent emission as previsouly
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1578
abstract: We propose a scheme based on the coherent excitation of a two-level system in a cavity to generate an ultrabright CW and focused source of quantum light that comes in groups (bundles) of $N$ photons, for an integer $N$ tunable with the frequency of the exciting laser. We define a new quantity, the \emph{purity} of $N$-photon emission, to describe the percentage of photons emitted in bundles, thus bypassing the limitations of Glauber correlation functions. We focus on the case $1\le N\le3$ and show that close to 100% of two-photon emission and 90% of three-photon emission is within reach of state of the art cavity QED samples. The statistics of the bundles emission shows that various regimes---from $N$-photon lasing to $N$-photon guns---can be realized. This is evidenced through generalized correlation functions that extend the standard definitions to the multi-photon level.

id: 1306.1586
title: Strong converse for the classical capacity of entanglement-breaking and Hadamard channels via a sandwiched Renyi relative entropy
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Andreas Winter, Dong Yang
comments: 33 pages; v4: minor changes throughout, accepted for publication in Communications in Mathematical Physics
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, vol. 331, no. 2, pages 593-622, October 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1586
abstract: A strong converse theorem for the classical capacity of a quantum channel states that the probability of correctly decoding a classical message converges exponentially fast to zero in the limit of many channel uses if the rate of communication exceeds the classical capacity of the channel. Along with a corresponding achievability statement for rates below the capacity, such a strong converse theorem enhances our understanding of the capacity as a very sharp dividing line between achievable and unachievable rates of communication. Here, we show that such a strong converse theorem holds for the classical capacity of all entanglement-breaking channels and all Hadamard channels (the complementary channels of the former). These results follow by bounding the success probability in terms of a "sandwiched" Renyi relative entropy, by showing that this quantity is subadditive for all entanglement-breaking and Hadamard channels, and by relating this quantity to the Holevo capacity. Prior results regarding strong converse theorems for particular covariant channels emerge as a special case of our results.

id: 1306.1601
title: Distilling single-photon entanglement from photon loss and decoherence
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Lan Zhou
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1601
abstract: Single-photon entanglement may be the simplest type of entanglement but it is of vice importance in quantum communication. Here we present a practical protocol for distilling the single-photon entanglement from both photon loss and decoherence. With the help of some local single photons, the probability of single photon loss can be decreased and the less-entangled state can also be recovered to maximally entangled state simultaneously. It only requires some linear optical elements which makes it feasible in current experiment condition. This protocol might find applications in current quantum communications based on the quantum repeaters.

id: 1306.1606
title: Photonic polarization gears for ultra-sensitive angular measurements
authors: V. D'Ambrosio, N. Spagnolo, L. Del Re, S. Slussarenko, Y. Li, L. C. Kwek, L. Marrucci, S. P. Walborn, L. Aolita, F. Sciarrino
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, + supplementary information (10 pages, 3 figures)
journal: Nature Communications 4:2432 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1606
abstract: Quantum metrology bears a great promise in enhancing measurement precision, but is unlikely to become practical in the near future. Its concepts can nevertheless inspire classical or hybrid methods of immediate value. Here, we demonstrate NOON-like photonic states of m quanta of angular momentum up to m=100, in a setup that acts as a "photonic gear", converting, for each photon, a mechanical rotation of an angle {\theta} into an amplified rotation of the optical polarization by m{\theta}, corresponding to a "super-resolving" Malus' law. We show that this effect leads to single-photon angular measurements with the same precision of polarization-only quantum strategies with m photons, but robust to photon losses. Moreover, we combine the gear effect with the quantum enhancement due to entanglement, thus exploiting the advantages of both approaches. The high "gear ratio" m boosts the current state-of-the-art of optical non-contact angular measurements by almost two orders of magnitude.

id: 1306.1610
title: Entanglement dynamics of a two-qubit system coupled individually to Ohmic baths
authors: Liwei Duan, Hui Wang, Qinghu Chen, Yang Zhao
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 044115 (2013);
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1610
abstract: Developed originally for the Holstein polaron, the Davydov D1 ansatz is an efficient, yet extremely accurate trial state for time-dependent variation of the spin-boson model [J. Chem. Phys. 138, 084111 (2013)]. In this work, the Dirac-Frenkel time-dependent variational procedure utilizing the Davydov D1 ansatz is implemented to study entanglement dynamics of two qubits under the influence of two independent baths. The Ohmic spectral density is used without the Born-Markov approximation or the rotating-wave approximation. In the strong coupling regime finite-time disentanglement is always found to exist, while at the intermediate coupling regime, the entanglement dynamics calculated by Davydov D1 ansatz displays oscillatory behavior in addition to entanglement disappearance and revival.

id: 1306.1659
title: Spin and the Thermal Equilibrium Distribution of Wave Functions
authors: Viraj Pandya, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 13 pages, no figures; v2 minor improvements
journal: Journal of Statistical Physics 154: 491-502 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1659
abstract: Consider a quantum system $S$ weakly interacting with a very large but finite system $B$ called the heat bath, and suppose that the composite $S\cup B$ is in a pure state $\Psi$ with participating energies between $E$ and $E+\delta$ with small $\delta$. Then, it is known that for most $\Psi$ the reduced density matrix of $S$ is (approximately) equal to the canonical density matrix. That is, the reduced density matrix is universal in the sense that it depends only on $S$'s Hamiltonian and the temperature but not on $B$'s Hamiltonian, on the interaction Hamiltonian, or on the details of $\Psi$. It has also been pointed out that $S$ can also be attributed a random wave function $\psi$ whose probability distribution is universal in the same sense. This distribution is known as the "Scrooge measure" or "Gaussian adjusted projected (GAP) measure"; we regard it as the thermal equilibrium distribution of wave functions. The relevant concept of the wave function of a subsystem is known as the "conditional wave function". In this paper, we develop analogous considerations for particles with spin. One can either use some kind of conditional wave function or, more naturally, the "conditional density matrix", which is in general different from the reduced density matrix. We ask what the thermal equilibrium distribution of the conditional density matrix is, and find the answer that for most $\Psi$ the conditional density matrix is (approximately) deterministic, in fact (approximately) equal to the canonical density matrix.

id: 1306.1695
title: Quantum state transfer in disordered spin chains: How much engineering is reasonable?
authors: Analia Zwick, Gonzalo A. ?lvarez, Joachim Stolze, Omar Osenda
comments: 20 pages, 13 figures. Revised version, title changed, accepted by Quantum Information & Computation
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 15 (7-8), 582-600 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1695
abstract: The transmission of quantum states through spin chains is an important element in the implementation of quantum information technologies. Speed and fidelity of transfer are the main objectives which have to be achieved by the devices even in the presence of imperfections which are unavoidable in any manufacturing process. To reach these goals, several kinds of spin chains have been suggested, which differ in the degree of fine-tuning, or engineering, of the system parameters. In this work we present a systematic study of two important classes of such chains. In one class only the spin couplings at the ends of the chain have to be adjusted to a value different from the bulk coupling constant, while in the other class every coupling has to have a specific value. We demonstrate that configurations from the two different classes may perform similarly when subjected to the same kind of disorder in spite of the large difference in the engineering effort necessary to prepare the system. We identify the system features responsible for these similarities and we perform a detailed study of the transfer fidelity as a function of chain length and disorder strength, yielding empirical scaling laws for the fidelity which are similar for all kinds of chain and all disorder models. These results are helpful in identifying the optimal spin chain for a given quantum information transfer task. In particular, they help in judging whether it is worthwhile to engineer all couplings in the chain as compared to adjusting only the boundary couplings.

id: 1306.1709
title: Transfer of orbital angular momentum of light using two component slow light
authors: J. Ruseckas, V. Kudriasov, I. A. Yu, G. Juzeliunas
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 053840 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1709
abstract: We study the manipulation of slow light with an orbital angular momentum propagating in a cloud of cold atoms. Atoms are affected by four copropagating control laser beams in a double tripod configuration of the atomic energy levels involved, allowing to minimize the losses at the vortex core of the control beams. In such a situation the atomic medium is transparent for a pair of copropagating probe fields, leading to the creation of two-component (spinor) slow light. We study the interaction between the probe fields when two control beams carry optical vortices of opposite helicity. As a result, a transfer of the optical vortex takes place from the control to the probe fields without switching off and on the control beams. This feature is missing in a single tripod scheme where the optical vortex can be transferred from the control to the probe field only during either the storage or retrieval of light.

id: 1306.1719
title: Calibration and High Fidelity Measurement of a Quantum Photonic Chip
authors: H. W. Li, J. Wabnig, D. Bitauld, P. Shadbolt, A. Politi, A. Laing, J. L. O'Brien, A. O. Niskanen
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 063017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1719
abstract: Integrated quantum photonic circuits are becoming increasingly complex. Accurate calibration of device parameters and detailed characterization of the prepared quantum states are critically important for future progress. Here we report on an effective experimental calibration method based on Bayesian updating and Markov chain Monte Carlo integration. We use this calibration technique to characterize a two qubit chip and extract the reflectivities of its directional couplers. An average quantum state tomography fidelity of 93.79+/-1.05% against the four Bell states is achieved. Furthermore, comparing the measured density matrices against a model using the non-ideal device parameters derived from the calibration we achieve an average fidelity of 97.57+/-0.96%. This pinpoints non-ideality of chip parameters as a major factor in the decrease of Bell state fidelity. We also perform quantum state tomography for Bell states while continuously varying photon distinguishability and find excellent agreement with theory.

id: 1306.1738
title: Effective noise channels for encoded quantum systems
authors: Frederik Kesting, Florian Fr?wis, Wolfgang D¨¹r
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042305 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1738
abstract: We investigate effective noise channels for encoded quantum systems with and without active error correction. Noise acting on physical qubits forming a logical qubit is thereby described as a logical noise channel acting on the logical qubits, which leads to a significant decrease of the effective system dimension. This provides us with a powerful tool to study entanglement features of encoded quantum systems. We demonstrate this framework by calculating lower bounds on the lifetime of distillable entanglement and the negativity for encoded multipartite qubit states with different encodings. At the same time, this approach leads to a simple understanding of the functioning of (concatenated) error correction codes.

id: 1306.1756
title: Two-color narrowband photon pair source with high brightness based on clustering in a monolithic waveguide resonator
authors: Kai-Hong Luo, Harald Herrmann, Stephan Krapick, Raimund Ricken, Viktor Quiring, Hubertus Suche, Wolfgang Sohler, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1756
abstract: We report on an integrated non-degenerate narrowband photon pair source produced at 890 nm and 1320nm via type II parametric down-conversion in a periodically poled waveguide with high-reflective dielectric mirrors deposited on the waveguide end faces. The conversion spectrum consists of three clusters and only 3 to 4 longitudinal modes with about 150 MHz bandwidth in each cluster. The high conversion efficiency in the waveguide, together with the spectral clustering in the double resonator, leads to a high brightness of $3\times10^3~$pairs/(s$\cdot$mW$\cdot$MHz). The compact and rugged monolithic design makes the source a versatile device for various applications in quantum communication.

id: 1306.1795
title: Quantum state cloning using Deutschian closed timelike curves
authors: Todd A. Brun, Mark M. Wilde, Andreas Winter
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure; v2: modifications to the interpretation of our results based on the insightful comments of the referees; v3: minor change, accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letters vol. 111, no. 19, page 190401, November 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1795
abstract: We show that it is possible to clone quantum states to arbitrary accuracy in the presence of a Deutschian closed timelike curve (D-CTC), with a fidelity converging to one in the limit as the dimension of the CTC system becomes large---thus resolving an open conjecture from [Brun et al., Physical Review Letters 102, 210402 (2009)]. This result follows from a D-CTC-assisted scheme for producing perfect clones of a quantum state prepared in a known eigenbasis, and the fact that one can reconstruct an approximation of a quantum state from empirical estimates of the probabilities of an informationally-complete measurement. Our results imply more generally that every continuous, but otherwise arbitrarily non-linear map from states to states can be implemented to arbitrary accuracy with D-CTCs. Furthermore, our results show that Deutsch's model for CTCs is in fact a classical model, in the sense that two arbitrary, distinct density operators are perfectly distinguishable (in the limit of a large CTC system); hence, in this model quantum mechanics becomes a classical theory in which each density operator is a distinct point in a classical phase space.

id: 1306.1806
title: Purification and redistribution of entanglement via single local filtering
authors: K.O. Yashodamma, P.J. Geetha, Sudha
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures; Minor corrections done; Published version
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 12, No. 1 (2014) 1450004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1806
abstract: The effect of filtering operation with respect to purification and concentration of entanglement in quantum states are discussed in this paper. It is shown, through examples, that the local action of the filtering operator on a part of the composite quantum state allows for purification of the remaining part of the state. The redistribution of entanglement in the subsystems of a noise affected state is shown to be due to the action of local filtering on the non-decohering part of the system. The varying effects of the filtering parameter, on the entanglement transfer between the subsystems, depending on the choice of the initial quantum state is illustrated.

id: 1306.1807
title: Unidirectional quantum walks: evolution and exit times
authors: Miquel Montero
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures; revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012333 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1807
abstract: In this paper we focus our attention on a particle that follows a unidirectional quantum walk, an alternative version of the nowadays widespread discrete-time quantum walk on a line. Here the walker at each time step can either remain in place or move in a fixed direction, e.g., rightward or upward. While both formulations are essentially equivalent, the present approach leads to consider Discrete Fourier Transforms, which eventually results in obtaining explicit expressions for the wave functions in terms of finite sums, and allows the use of efficient algorithms based on the Fast Fourier Transform. The wave functions here obtained govern the probability of finding the particle at any given location, but determine as well the exit-time probability of the walker from a fixed interval, which is also analyzed.

id: 1306.1933
title: Testing the effects of gravity and motion on quantum entanglement in space-based experiments
authors: David Edward Bruschi, Carlos Sab¨ªn, Angela White, Valentina Baccetti, Daniel K. L. Oi, Ivette Fuentes
comments: v1: 6 pages, 2 figure. I. F. previously published as I. Fuentes-Guridi and I. Fuentes-Schuller. v2: appendices added. 8 pages, 2 figures. v3: minor changes, published version. v4: Typos corrected. Final version
journal: New J. Phys. 16 053041 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1933
abstract: We propose an experiment to test the effects of gravity and acceleration on quantum entanglement in space-based setups. We show that the entanglement between excitations of two Bose-Einstein condensates is degraded after one of them undergoes a change in the gravitational field strength. This prediction can be tested if the condensates are initially entangled in two separate satellites while being in the same orbit and then one of them moves to a different orbit. We show that the effect is observable in a typical orbital manoeuvre of nanosatellites like CanX4 and CanX5.

id: 1306.1934
title: Derivation of the Dirac Equation from Principles of Information Processing
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures, revtex4, revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062106 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1934
abstract: We show how the Dirac equation in three space-dimensions emerges from the large-scale dynamics of the minimal nontrivial quantum cellular automaton satisfying unitariety, locality, homogeneity, and discrete isotropy, without using the relativity principle. The Dirac equation is recovered for small wave-vector and inertial mass, whereas Lorentz covariance is distorted in the ultra-relativistic limit. The automaton can thus be regarded as a theory unifying scales from Planck to Fermi. A simple asymptotic approach leads to a dispersive Schroedinger equation describing the evolution of narrow-band states at all scales.

id: 1306.1950
title: Reconstructing an atomic orthomodular lattice from the poset of its Boolean sublattices
authors: Carmen Constantin, Andreas Doering
comments: 12 pages, no figures; v2: minor corrections, improved presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1950
abstract: We show that an atomic orthomodular lattice L can be reconstructed up to isomorphism from the poset B(L) of Boolean subalgebras of L. A motivation comes from quantum theory and the so-called topos approach, where one considers the poset of Boolean sublattices of L=P(H), the projection lattice of the algebra B(H) of bounded operators on Hilbert space.

id: 1306.1969
title: Momentum-independent reflectionless transmission in the non-Hermitian time-reversal symmetric system
authors: X. Z. Zhang, Z. Song
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1008.5306 by other authors
journal: Annals of Physics, 339, 109-121 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1969
abstract: We theoretically study the non-Hermitian systems, the non-Hermiticity of which arises from the unequal hopping amplitude (UHA) dimers. The distinguishing features of these models are that they have full real spectra if all of the eigenvectors are time-reversal (T) symmetric rather than parity-time-reversal (PT) symmetric, and that their Hermitian counterparts are shown to be an experimentally accessible system, which have the same topological structures as that of the original ones but modulated hopping amplitudes within the unbroken region. Under the reflectionless transmission condition, the scattering behavior of momentum-independent reflectionless transmission (RT) can be achieved in the concerned non-Hermitian system. This peculiar feature indicates that, for a certain class of non-Hermitian systems with a balanced combination of the RT dimers, the defects can appear fully invisible to an outside observer.

id: 1306.1986
title: On Determinism and Bell Test
authors: Shoujiang Wang, Xiulan Wang
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1986
abstract: Many Bell test results violate Bell's inequality. The premise of Bell's inequality is local determinism. We propose that, it can't be proved that something's mechanism isn't deterministic; if loopholes are not the reason of violation of Bell's inequality, violation of Bell's inequality illustrates that the mechanism isn't local. We propose a new explanation of Bell test, and the explanation illustrates the locality loophole is not closed by Weihs' experiment.

id: 1306.1989
title: Dynamics of an optomechanical resonator containing a Quantum Well induced by periodic modulation of cavity field and external laser beam
authors: Sonam Mahajan, Neha Aggarwal, Tarun Kumar, Aranya B Bhattacherjee, ManMohan
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1989
abstract: We study in detail the dynamics of a non-stationary system composed of a Quantum Well confined in an optomechanical cavity. This system is investigated with classical and quantized motion of the cavity movable mirror. In both the cases, the cavity frequency is rapidly modulated in time. The resultant periodically modulated spectra is presented. In particular, we study the effect of two-photon process on the number of intracavity photons. The intensity of fluorescent light emitted by excitons in the quantum well is also examined for these non-stationary systems. It is observed that the initial stage of fluorescence spectrum helps in detecting the two-photon process. It is also noticed that under strong modulation, two-photon process dominates while under weak modulation, fluorescence dominates. We also analyzed the dynamics of the system induced by a periodic modulation of the external pump laser with constant cavity frequency. This modulation of external laser pump helps in phonon amplification.

id: 1306.2008
title: Investigating the linear structure of Boolean functions based on Simon's period-finding quantum algorithm
authors: Li Yang, Hong-Wei Li
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2008
abstract: It is believed that there is no e?cient classical algorithm to determine the linear structure of Boolean function. We investigate an extension of Simon's period-?nding quantum algorithm, and propose an e?cient quantum algorithm to determine the linear structure of Boolean function.

id: 1306.2037
title: A Quantum Physical Design Flow Using ILP and Graph Drawing
authors: Maryam Yazdani, Morteza Saheb Zamani, Mehdi Sedighi
comments: 17 figures, 12 tables, Quantum Information Processing Journal. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0704.0268 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2037
abstract: Implementing large-scale quantum circuits is one of the challenges of quantum computing. One of the central challenges of accurately modeling the architecture of these circuits is to schedule a quantum application and generate the layout while taking into account the cost of communications and classical resources as well as the maximum exploitable parallelism. In this paper, we present and evaluate a design flow for arbitrary quantum circuits in ion trap technology. Our design flow consists of two parts. First, a scheduler takes a description of a circuit and finds the best order for the execution of its quantum gates using integer linear programming (ILP) regarding the classical resources (qubits) and instruction dependencies. Then a layout generator receives the schedule produced by the scheduler and generates a layout for this circuit using a graph-drawing algorithm. Our experimental results show that the proposed flow decreases the average latency of quantum circuits by about 11% for a set of attempted benchmarks and by about 9% for another set of benchmarks compared with the best in literature.

id: 1306.2044
title: Multimode Phonon Cooling via Three Wave Parametric Interactions with Optical Fields
authors: G. S. Agarwal, Sudhanshu S. Jha
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013815 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2044
abstract: We discuss the possible cooling of different phonon modes via three wave mixing interactions of vibrational and optical modes. Since phonon modes exhibit a variety of dispersion relations or frequency spectra with diverse spatial structures, depending on the shape and size of the sample, we formulate our theory in terms of relevant spatial mode functions for the interacting fields in any given geometry. We discuss the possibility of Dicke like collective effects in phonon cooling and present explicit results for simultaneous cooling of two phonon modes via the anti-Stokes up conversions. We show that the bimodal cooling should be observable experimentally.

id: 1306.2074
title: Entanglement of spins under a strong laser influence
authors: V. Gerdt, S. Gogilidze, A. Khvedelidze, D. Mladenov, V. Sanadze
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2074
abstract: The fate of entanglement of spins for two heavy constituents of a bound state moving in a strong laser field is analyzed within the semiclassical approach. The bound state motion as a whole is considered classically beyond the dipole approximation and taking into account the magnetic field effect by using the exact solution to the Newton equation. At the same time the evolution of constituent spins under the laser influence is studied quantum mechanically. The spin density matrix is determined as solution to the von Neumann equation with the effective Hamiltonian, describing spin-laser interaction along the bound state classical trajectory. Based on the solution, the dynamics of concurrence of spins is calculated for the maximally entangled Werner states as well as for an initially uncorrelated state.

id: 1306.2099
title: A recipe for Hamiltonian of system-environment coupling applicable to ultrastrong light-matter interaction regime
authors: Motoaki Bamba, Tetsuo Ogawa
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 023817 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2099
abstract: When the light interacts with matters in a lossy cavity, in the standard cavity quantum electrodynamics, the dissipation of cavity fields is characterized simply by the strengths of the two couplings: the light-matter interaction and the system-environment coupling through the cavity mirror. However, in the ultrastrong light-matter interaction regime, the dissipation depends also on whether the two couplings are mediated by the electric field or the magnetic one (capacitive or inductive in superconducting circuits). Even if we know correctly the microscopic mechanism (Lagrangian) of the system-environment coupling, the coupling Hamiltonian itself is in principle modified due to the ultrastrong interaction in the cavity. In this paper, we show a recipe for deriving a general expression of the Hamiltonian of the system-environment coupling, which is applicable even in the ultrastrong light-matter interaction regime in the good-cavity and independent-transition limit.

id: 1306.2113
title: Composable security of measuring-Alice blind quantum computation
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae, Takeshi Koshiba
comments: 10 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2113
abstract: Blind quantum computing [A. Broadbent, J. Fitzsimons, and E. Kashefi, Proceedings of the 50th Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science 517 (2009)] is a secure cloud quantum computing protocol which enables a client (who does not have enough quantum technology at her disposal) to delegate her quantum computation to a server (who has a universal quantum computer) without leaking any relevant information to the server. In [T. Morimae and K. Fujii, Phys. Rev. A {\bf87}, 050301(R) (2013)], a new blind quantum computing protocol, so called the measuring-Alice protocol, was proposed. This protocol offers several advantages over previous protocols, such as the device-independent security, less demanding requirements for the client, and a simpler and stronger security based on the no-signaling principle. In this paper, we show composable security of the measuring-Alice protocol by using the formalism of the constructive cryptography [U. Maurer, Proceedings of Theory of Security and Applications, TOSCA 2011, pages 33-56. Springer (2011)]. The above advantages of measuring-Alice protocol enable more intuitive and transparent proofs for the composable security.

id: 1306.2120
title: Hide the interior region of core-shell nanoparticles with quantum invisible cloaks
authors: Jeng Yi Lee, Ray-Kuang Lee
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2120
abstract: By applying the interplay among the nodal points of partial waves, along with the concept of streamline in fluid dynamics for the probability flux, a quantum invisible cloak to the electron transport in a host semiconductor is demonstrated by simultaneously guiding the probability flux outside the core region and keeping the total scattering cross section negligible. As the probability flux vanishes in the interior region, one can embed any material inside a multiple core-shell sphere without affecting physical observables from the outside. Our results reveal the possibility to design a protection shield layer for fragile interior parts from the impact of transports of electrons.

id: 1306.2122
title: Ground state of the asymmetric Rabi model in the ultrastrong coupling regime
authors: Li-Tuo Shen, Zhen-Biao Yang, Mei Lu, Rong-Xin Chen, Huai-Zhi Wu
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Applied Physics B Volume 117, Issue 1, pp 195-202 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2122
abstract: We study the ground states of the single- and two-qubit asymmetric Rabi models, in which the qubit-oscillator coupling strengths for the counterrotating-wave and corotating-wave interactions are unequal. We take the transformation method to obtain the approximately analytical ground states for both models and numerically verify its validity for a wide range of parameters under the near-resonance condition. We find that the ground-state energy in either the single- or two-qubit asymmetric Rabi model has an approximately quadratic dependence on the coupling strengths stemming from different contributions of the counterrotating-wave and corotating-wave interactions. For both models, we show that the ground-state energy is mainly contributed by the counterrotating-wave interaction. Interestingly, for the two-qubit asymmetric Rabi model, we find that, with the increase of the coupling strength in the counterrotating-wave or corotating-wave interaction, the two-qubit entanglement first reaches its maximum then drops to zero. Furthermore, the maximum of the two-qubit entanglement in the two-qubit asymmetric Rabi model can be much larger than that in the two-qubit symmetric Rabi model.

id: 1306.2132
title: All-optical reversible logic gate via adiabatic population transfer
authors: G. Grigoryan, V. Chaltykyan, E. Gazazyan, O. Tikhova, T. Halfmann
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2132
abstract: The Toffoli gate is an essential logic element, which permits implementation of a reversible processor. It is of relevance both for classical as well as quantum logics. We propose and theoretically study all-optical implementations of three-bit and four-bit Toffoli gates by application of adiabatic population transfer techniques. For a three-bit Toffoli gate we use variants of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) processes in a $\Lambda$-type level scheme, driven by two laser pulses at sufficiently large detunings. For the implementation of a four-bit Toffoli gate, we apply reversible adiabatic population transfer in five-level quantum systems, interacting with three laser pulses. We demonstrate correct all-optical implementation of the truth table of three-bit and four-bit Toffoli gates. Moreover, we derive conditions for adiabatic evolution of the population dynamics and robust operation of the gates.

id: 1306.2142
title: Energy gap at first-order quantum phase transitions: An anomalous case
authors: Junichi Tsuda, Yuuki Yamanaka, Hidetoshi Nishimori
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures; to appear in J.Phys. Soc. Jpn
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 82 (2013) 114004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2142
abstract: We show that the rate of closing of the energy gap between the ground state and the first excited state, as a function of system size, behaves in many qualitatively different ways at first-order quantum phase transitions of the infinite-range quantum XY model. Examples include polynomial, exponential and even factorially fast closing of the energy gap, all of which coexist along a single axis of the phase diagram representing the transverse field. This variety emerges depending on whether or not the transverse field assumes a rational number as well as on how the series of system size is chosen toward the thermodynamic limit. We conclude that there is no generically applicable rule to relate the rate of gap closing and the order of quantum phase transitions as is often implied in many studies, in particular in relation to the computational complexity of quantum annealing in its implementation as quantum adiabatic computation.

id: 1306.2145
title: Quantum Zeno dynamics of noisy quantum channel
authors: Yu-Ran Zhang, Heng Fan
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2145
abstract: The quantum Zeno effect shows that frequent observations can slow down or even stop the unitary time evolution of an unstable quantum system. We investigate the quantum Zeno dynamics of the system which experiences a specific quantum dynamical map in an open system. An achievable upper bound of the quantum Zeno time is given via the variational methods stemming from the noisy quantum metrology. We exemplify that the maximal entangled states interacting with an appropriate model of environment can have a longer quantum Zeno time than the ones in closed system. It is of interest in that the noise affecting the accuracy in the entanglement-enhanced parameter estimation can conversely be favorable for the quantum Zeno dynamics of entangled states.

id: 1306.2179
title: Probing the topological properties of the Jackiw-Rebbi model with light
authors: Dimitris G. Angelakis, Priyam Das, Changsuk Noh
comments: Extensive restructuring compared to the previous version, with new results added regarding probing the stability of the topological mode in an optical transmission experiment, as well as a robustness study
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 6110 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2179
abstract: The Jackiw-Rebbi model describes a one-dimensional Dirac particle coupled to a soliton field and can be equivalently thought of as the model describing a Dirac particle under a Lorentz scalar potential. Neglecting the dynamics of the soliton field, a kink in the background soliton profile yields a topologically protected zero-energy mode for the particle, which in turn leads to charge fractionalization. We show here that the model can be realized in a driven slow-light setup, where photons mimic the Dirac particles and the soliton field can be implemented-and tuned-by adjusting optical parameters such as the atom-photon detuning. Furthermore, we discuss how the existence of the zero-mode, and its topological stability, can be probed naturally by analyzing the transmission spectrum. We conclude by doing an analysis of the robustness of our approach against possible experimental errors in engineering the Jackiw-Rebbi Hamiltonian in this optical set up.

id: 1306.2202
title: Imperfect Construction of Microclusters
authors: Eric Schneider, Kevin Zhou, Gerald Gilbert, Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 5 pages 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2202
abstract: Microclusters are the basic building blocks used to construct cluster states capable of supporting fault-tolerant quantum computation. In this paper, we explore the consequences of errors on microcluster construction using two error models. To quantify the effect of the errors we calculate the fidelity of the constructed microclusters and the fidelity with which two such microclusters can be fused together. Such simulations are vital for gauging the capability of an experimental system to achieve fault tolerance.

id: 1306.2213
title: Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage via bright state in Lambda medium of unequal oscillator strengths
authors: G. G. Grigoryan, C. Leroy, Y. Pashayan-Leroy, L. Chakhmakhchyan, S. Gu¨¦rin, H.R. Jauslin
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 66, 256 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2213
abstract: We consider the population transfer process in a Lambda-type atomic medium of unequal oscillator strengths by stimulated Raman adiabatic passage via bright-state (b-STIRAP) taking into account propagation effects. Using both analytic and numerical methods we show that the population transfer efficiency is sensitive to the ratio q_p/q_s of the transition oscillator strengths. We find that the case q_p>q_s is more detrimental for population transfer process as compared to the case where $q_p \leq q_s$. For this case it is possible to increase medium dimensions while permitting efficient population transfer. A criterion determining the interaction adiabaticity in the course of propagation process is found. We also show that the mixing parameter characterizing the population transfer propagates superluminally.

id: 1306.2226
title: Scattering in a varying mass PT symmetric double heterojunction
authors: Anjana Sinha, R. Roychoudhury
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: EPL vol. 103, (2013) 50007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2226
abstract: We observe that the reflection and transmission coefficients of a particle within a double, PT symmetric heterojunction with spatially varying mass, show interesting features, depending on the degree of non Hermiticity, although there is no spontaneous breakdown of PT symmetry. The potential profile in the intermediate layer is considered such that it has a non vanishing imaginary part near the heterojunctions. Exact analytical solutions for the wave function are obtained, and the reflection and transmission coefficients are plotted as a function of energy, for both left as well as right incidence. As expected, the spatial dependence on mass changes the nature of the scattering solutions within the heterojunctions, and the space-time (PT) symmetry is responsible for the left-right asymmetry in the reflection and transmission coefficients. However, the non vanishing imaginary component of the potential near the heterojunctions gives new and interesting results.

id: 1306.2255
title: Revisiting the PT-symmetric Trimer: Bifurcations, Ghost States and Associated Dynamics
authors: K. Li, P. G. Kevrekidis, D. J. Frantzeskakis, C. E. Ruter, D. Kip
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2255
abstract: In this paper, we revisit one of the prototypical PT-symmetric oligomers, namely the trimer. We find all the relevant branches of "regular" solutions and analyze the bifurcations and instabilities thereof. Our work generalizes the formulation that was proposed recently in the case of dimers for the so-called "ghost states" of trimers, which we also identify and connect to symmetry-breaking bifurcations from the regular states. We also examine the dynamics of unstable trimers, as well as those of the ghost states in the parametric regime where the latter are found to exist. Finally, we present the current state of the art for optical experiments in PT-symmetric trimers, as well as experimental results in a gain-loss-gain three channel waveguide structure.

id: 1306.2270
title: Compressive Object Tracking using Entangled Photons
authors: Omar S. Maga?a-Loaiza, Gregory A. Howland, Mehul Malik, John C. Howell, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 231104 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2270
abstract: We present a compressive sensing protocol that tracks a moving object by removing static components from a scene. The implementation is carried out on a ghost imaging scheme to minimize both the number of photons and the number of measurements required to form a quantum image of the tracked object. This procedure tracks an object at low light levels with fewer than 3% of the measurements required for a raster scan, permitting us to more effectively use the information content in each photon.

id: 1306.2279
title: Single qubit gates in frequency-crowded transmon systems
authors: R. Schutjens, F. Abu Dagga, D. J. Egger, F. K. Wilhelm
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052330 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2279
abstract: Recent experimental work on superconducting transmon qubits in 3D cavities show that their coherence times are increased by an order of magnitude compared to their 2D cavity counterparts. However to take advantage of these coherence times while scaling up the number of qubits it is advantageous to address individual qubits which are all coupled to the same 3D cavity fields. The challenge in controlling this system comes from spectral crowding, where leakage transition of qubits are close to computational transitions in other. Here it is shown that fast pulses are possible which address single qubits using two quadrature control of the pulse envelope while the DRAG method alone only gives marginal improvements over the conventional Gaussian pulse shape. On the other hand, a first order result using the Magnus expansion gives a fast analytical pulse shape which gives a high fidelity gate for a specific gate time, up to a phase factor on the second qubit. Further numerical analysis corroborates these results and yields to even faster gates, showing that leakage state anharmonicity does not provide a fundamental quantum speed limit.

id: 1306.2299
title: Protecting OAM Photons from Decoherence in a Turbulent Atmosphere
authors: Jose Raul Gonzalez Alonso, Todd Brun
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A Vol.88, No.2, August, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2299
abstract: One of the most important properties of orbital angular momentum (OAM) of photons is that the Hilbert space required to describe a general quantum state is infinite dimensional. In principle, this could allow for encoding arbitrarily large amounts of quantum information per photon, but in practice, this potential is limited by decoherence and errors. To determine whether photons with OAM are suitable for quantum communication, we numerically simulated their passage through a turbulent atmosphere and the resulting errors. We also proposed an encoding scheme to protect the photons from these errors, and characterized its effectiveness by the channel fidelity.

id: 1306.2301
title: A note on quantum related-key attacks
authors: Martin Roetteler, Rainer Steinwandt
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures; added figure of quantum circuit for related-key attack against block ciphers
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2301
abstract: In a basic related-key attack against a block cipher, the adversary has access to encryptions under keys that differ from the target key by bit-flips. In this short note we show that for a quantum adversary such attacks are quite powerful: if the secret key is (i) uniquely determined by a small number of plaintext-ciphertext pairs, (ii) the block cipher can be evaluated efficiently, and (iii) a superposition of related keys can be queried, then the key can be extracted efficiently.

id: 1306.2348
title: Robust Extraction of Tomographic Information via Randomized Benchmarking
authors: Shelby Kimmel, Marcus P. da Silva, Colm A. Ryan, Blake R. Johnson, Thomas Ohki
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 011050 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2348
abstract: We describe how randomized benchmarking can be used to reconstruct the unital part of any trace-preserving quantum map, which in turn is sufficient for the full characterization of any unitary evolution, or more generally, any unital trace-preserving evolution. This approach inherits randomized benchmarking's robustness to preparation and measurement imperfections, therefore avoiding systematic errors caused by these imperfections. We also extend these techniques to efficiently estimate the average fidelity of a quantum map to unitary maps outside of the Clifford group. The unitaries we consider include operations commonly used to achieve universal quantum computation in a fault-tolerant setting. In addition, we rigorously bound the time and sampling complexities of randomized benchmarking procedures.

id: 1306.2379
title: Twisted Interferometry
authors: Parsa Bonderson, Lukasz Fidkowski, Michael Freedman, Kevin Walker
comments: 58 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2379
abstract: We propose and analyze the effect of anyonic interferometers that are designed such that the probe anyons traveling in a given path through the interferometer twist or braid around each other. These "twisted" interferometers are found to provide operational utility that may not be available from anyon braiding operations and standard (untwisted) anyonic interferometry measurements. In particular, it enables Ising anyons to generate "magic states," which can be used to implement pi/8-phase gates. We consider the possible implementations of such twisted interferometers in quantum Hall systems, 2D p_x + i p_y superconductors, and 2D Majorana heterostructures, and discuss obstacles and challenges associated with implementation.

id: 1306.2409
title: Information amplification via postselection: A parameter estimation perspective
authors: Saki Tanaka, Naoki Yamamoto
comments: This is the journal published version to the preprint arXiv:1306.2409: "Does the post-selection amplify the information for parameter estimation?"
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042116 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2409
abstract: It is known that weak measurement can significantly amplify the mean of measurement results, sometimes out of the range limited in usual quantum measurement. This fact, as actively demonstrated recently in both theory and experiment, implies the possibility to estimate a very small parameter using the weak measurement technique. But does the weak measurement really bring about the increase of "information" for parameter estimation? This paper clarifies that, in a general situation, the answer is NO; more precisely, the weak measurement cannot further decrease the lower bound of the estimation error, i.e. the so-called Cram\'{e}r-Rao bound, which is proportional to the inverse of the quantum Fisher information.

id: 1306.2411
title: Quadrupole transitions in the bound rotational-vibrational spectrum of the hydrogen molecular ion
authors: Horacio Olivares Pil¨®n, Daniel Baye
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures, 4 tables. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1302.5234, arXiv:1306.0838
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2411
abstract: The three-body Schr\"odinger equation of the H$_2^+$ hydrogen molecular ion with Coulomb potentials is solved in perimetric coordinates using the Lagrange-mesh method. The Lagrange-mesh method is an approximate variational calculation with variational accuracy and the simplicity of a calculation on a mesh. Energies and wave functions of up to four of the lowest vibrational bound or quasibound states for total orbital momenta from 0 to 40 are calculated. The obtained energies have an accuracy varying from about 13 digits for the lowest vibrational state to at least 9 digits for the third vibrational excited state. With the corresponding wave functions, a simple calculation using the associated Gauss quadrature provides accurate quadrupole transition probabilities per time unit between those states over the whole rotational bands. Extensive results are presented with six significant figures.

id: 1306.2524
title: Unitary Representations of Quantum Superpositions of two Coherent States and beyond
authors: Antonino Messina, Gheorghe Draganescu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2524
abstract: The construction of a class of unitary operators generating linear superpositions of generalized coherent states from the ground state of a quantum harmonic oscillator is reported. Such a construction, based on the properties of a new ad hoc introduced set of hermitian operators, leads to the definition of new basis in the oscillator Hilbert space, extending in a natural way the displaced Fock states basis. The potential development of our method and our results is briefly outlined.

id: 1306.2525
title: Optimal Squeezing in the Resonance Fluorescence of Single Photon Emitters
authors: P. Gr¨¹nwald, W. Vogel
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 023837 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2525
abstract: Annual Review of Astronomy and Astrophysics, Volume 51, page 511e studied for coherently driven single photon sources, such as atoms and quantum dots. Maximal squeezing is realized, if the electronic subsystem of the emitter is in a pure quantum state. The purification is achieved by using a cavity as a second decay channel, besides the incoherent coupling to the electromagnetic vacuum. For realistic cavities this yields a purity of the electronic state of more than 99%. Aside from numerical calculations, we also derive approximate analytical results. Based on the approximations, effects are studied which originate from the environment of the emitter, including radiationless dephasing and incoherent pumping of the emitter and the cavity mode. The fragility of squeezing against decoherence is substantially reduced, so that squeezing persists even under hostile conditions. The measurement of squeezing from such light sources is also considered.

id: 1306.2526
title: Dynamic Distance Measures on Spaces of Isospectral Mixed Quantum States
authors: Ole Andersson, Hoshang Heydari
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: Entropy 2013, 15(9), 3688-3697
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2526
abstract: Distance measures are indispensable tools in quantum information processing and quantum computing. This since they can be used to quantify to what extent information is preserved, or altered, by quantum processes. In this paper we propose a new distance measure for mixed quantum states, that we call the dynamic distance measure, and show that it is a proper distance measure. The dynamic distance measure is defined in terms of a measurable quantity, which make it very suitable for applications. In a final section we compare the dynamical distance measure with the well-known Bures distance.

id: 1306.2535
title: Superfluorescence spectra of excitons in quantum wells
authors: P. Gr¨¹nwald, G. K. G. Burau, H. Stolz, W. Vogel
comments: revised version; accepted for publication in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B vol 88, 195308 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2535
abstract: We study the fluorescence light emitted from GaAs excitons in semiconductor quantum wells. The excitons are modeled as interacting bosons. By combining quantum optical methods for the excitonic emission spectrum with many particle descriptions of the transmission through the medium, we can evaluate the spectra outside the well. Comparing with experimental spectra, we get a very good agreement. The method helps explaining the main features of the observed spectra. It is demonstrated that the observed spectra show clear evidence of superfluorescent emission.

id: 1306.2536
title: Absolutely Maximally Entangled States: Existence and Applications
authors: Wolfram Helwig, Wei Cui
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2536
abstract: We investigate absolutely maximally entangled (AME) states, which are multipartite quantum states that are maximally entangled with respect to any possible bipartition. These strong entanglement properties make them a powerful resource for a variety of quantum information protocols. In this paper, we show the existence of AME states for any number of parties, given that the dimension of the involved systems is chosen appropriately. We prove the equivalence of AME states shared between an even number of parties and pure state threshold quantum secret sharing (QSS) schemes, and prove necessary and sufficient entanglement properties for a wider class of ramp QSS schemes. We further show how AME states can be used as a valuable resource for open-destination teleportation protocols and to what extend entanglement swapping generalizes to AME states.

id: 1306.2570
title: Canonical form of three-fermion pure-states with six single particle states
authors: Lin Chen, Dragomir Z Djokovic, Markus Grassl, Bei Zeng
comments: 42 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 082203 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2570
abstract: We construct a canonical form for pure states in $\bwe^3(\bC^6)$, the three-fermion system with six single particle states, under local unitary (LU) transformations, i.e., the unitary group $\Un(6)$. We also construct a minimal set of generators of the algebra of polynomial $\Un(6)$-invariants on $\bwe^3(\bC^6)$. It turns out that this algebra is isomorphic to the algebra of polynomial LU-invariants of three-qubits which are additionally invariant under qubit permutations. As a consequence of this surprising fact, we deduce that there is a one-to-one correspondence between the $\Un(6)$-orbits of pure three-fermion states in $\bwe^3(\bC^6)$ and the LU orbits of pure three-qubit states when qubit permutations are allowed. As an important byproduct, we obtain a new canonical form for pure three-qubit states under LU transformations $\Un(2)\times\Un(2)\times\Un(2)$ (no qubit permutations allowed).

id: 1306.2571
title: Device-independent quantum key distribution with spin-coupled cavities
authors: Alejandro M¨¢ttar, Jonatan Bohr Brask, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 062319 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2571
abstract: Device-independent quantum key distribution (DIQKD) guarantees the security of a shared key without any assumptions on the apparatus used, provided that the observed data violate a Bell inequality. Such violation is challenging experimentally due to channel losses and photo-detection inefficiencies. Here we describe a realistic DIQKD protocol based on interaction between light and spins stored in cavities, which allows a heralded mapping of polarisation entanglement of light onto the spin. The spin state can subsequently be measured with near unit efficiency. Heralding alleviates the effect of channel loss, and as the protocol allows for local heralding, the spin decay is not affected by the communication time between the parties, making Bell inequality violation over an arbitrary distance possible. We compute the achievable key rates of the protocol, based on recent estimates of experimentally accessible parameter values and compare to the other known DIQKD protocol, which is entirely optical. We find significant improvements in terms of key bits per source use. For example we gain about five orders of magnitude over a distance of 75km, for realistic parameter values.

id: 1306.2574
title: Quantum Collapse Bell Inequalities
authors: Karl-Peter Marzlin, T. A. Osborn
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A. 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032123 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2574
abstract: We propose Bell inequalities for discrete or continuous quantum systems which test the compatibility of quantum physics with an interpretation in terms of deterministic hidden-variable theories. The wave function collapse that occurs in a sequence of quantum measurements enters the upper bound via the concept of quantum conditional probabilities. The resulting hidden-variable inequality is applicable to an arbitrary observable that is decomposable into a weighted sum of non-commuting projectors. We present local and non-local examples of violation of generalized Bell inequalities in phase space, which sense the negativity of the Wigner function.

id: 1306.2592
title: Thermal entanglement in a two-qubit Ising chain subjected to Dzialoshinski-Moriya interaction
authors: B.G Divyamani, Sudha
comments: 4 pages; 13 figures; Published version
journal: CHIN. PHYS. LETT. Vol. 30, No. 12 (2013) 120301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2592
abstract: Thermal entanglement of a two-qubit Ising chain subjected to an external magnetic field and Dzialoshinski-Moriya (DM) interaction is examined. The effect of magnetic field, strength of DM interaction and temperature are analyzed by adopting negativity of partial transpose as the measure of entanglement. It is shown that when the DM interaction along the Ising axis is considerable, thermal entanglement can be sustained for higher temperature. The usefulness of longitudinal DM interaction over the one that is perpendicular to the Ising axis, in the manipulation and control of entanglement at a feasible temperature, is illustrated.

id: 1306.2620
title: Decay of spin coherences in one-dimensional spin systems
authors: Gurneet Kaur, Ashok Ajoy, Paola Cappellaro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2620
abstract: Strategies to protect multi-qubit states against decoherence are difficult to formulate because of their complex many-body dynamics. A better knowledge of the decay dynamics would help in the construction of decoupling control schemes. Here we use solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance techniques to experimentally investigate the decay of coherent multi-spin states in linear spin chains. Leveraging on the quasi-one-dimensional geometry of Fluorapatite crystal spin systems, we can gain a deeper insight on the multi-spin states created by the coherent evolution, and their subsequent decay, than it is possible in 3D systems. We are then able to formulate an analytical model that captures the key features of the decay. We can thus compare the decoherence behavior for different initial states of the spin chain and link their decay rate to the state characteristics, in particular their coherence and long-range correlation among spins. Our experimental and theoretical study shows that the spin chains undergo a rich dynamics, with a slower decay rate than for the 3D case, and thus might be more amenable to decoupling techniques.

id: 1306.2677
title: Optimal quantum-enhanced interferometry using a laser power source
authors: Matthias D. Lang, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, replaced version with minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 173601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2677
abstract: We consider an interferometer powered by laser light (a coherent state) into one input port and ask the following question: what is the best state to inject into the second input port, given a constraint on the mean number of photons this state can carry, in order to optimize the interferometer's phase sensitivity? This question is the practical question for high-sensitivity interferometry. We answer the question by considering the quantum Cram{\'e}r-Rao bound for such a setup. The answer is squeezed vacuum.

id: 1306.2688
title: A Mathematical Aspect of A Tunnel-Junction for Spintronic Qubit
authors: Masao Hirokawa, Takuya Kosaka
comments: 26 pages, 2 figures: We changed the title a little, and rewrote the paper based on some preceding works
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2688
abstract: We consider the Dirac particle living in the 1-dimensional configuration space with a junction for a spintronic qubit. We give concrete formulae explicitly showing the one-to-one correspondence between every self-adjoint extension of the minimal Dirac operator and the boundary condition of the wave functions of the Dirac particle. We then show that the boundary conditions are classified into two types: one of them is characterized by two parameters and the other is by three parameters. Then, we show that Benvegnu and Dabrowski's four-parameter family can actually be characterized by three parameters, concerned with the reflection, penetration, and phase factor.

id: 1306.2698
title: Violation of Entanglement-Area Law in Bosonic Systems with Bose Surfaces: Possible Application to Bose Metals
authors: Hsin-Hua Lai, Kun Yang, N. E. Bonesteel
comments: 4.5 pages, 4 figures. Accepted version in Physical Review Letter
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 210402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2698
abstract: We show the violation of the entanglement-area law for bosonic systems with Bose surfaces. For bosonic systems with gapless factorized energy dispersions on a N^d Cartesian lattice in d-dimension, e.g., the exciton Bose liquid in two dimension, we explicitly show that a belt subsystem with width L preserving translational symmetry along d-1 Cartesian axes has leading entanglement entropy (N^{d-1}/3)ln L. Using this result, the strong subadditivity inequality, and lattice symmetries, we bound the entanglement entropy of a rectangular subsystem from below and above showing a logarithmic violation of the area law. For subsystems with a single flat boundary we also bound the entanglement entropy from below showing a logarithmic violation, and argue that the entanglement entropy of subsystems with arbitrary smooth boundaries are similarly bounded.

id: 1306.2699
title: Testing quantum mechanics: a statistical approach
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: v1: 2 pages; v2: invited tutorial for Quantum Measurements and Quantum Metrology, substantial expansion of v1, 19 pages; v3: accepted; v4: corrected some errors, published
journal: Quantum Measurements and Quantum Metrology 1, 84-109 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2699
abstract: As experiments continue to push the quantum-classical boundary using increasingly complex dynamical systems, the interpretation of experimental data becomes more and more challenging: when the observations are noisy, indirect, and limited, how can we be sure that we are observing quantum behavior? This tutorial highlights some of the difficulties in such experimental tests of quantum mechanics, using optomechanics as the central example, and discusses how the issues can be resolved using techniques from statistics and insights from quantum information theory.

id: 1306.2712
title: Tight bounds on the distinguishability of quantum states under separable measurements
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Michael Nathanson
comments: 19 pages; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052313 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2712
abstract: One of the many interesting features of quantum nonlocality is that the states of a multipartite quantum system cannot always be distinguished as well by local measurements as they can when all quantum measurements are allowed. In this work, we characterize the distinguishability of sets of multipartite quantum states when restricted to separable measurements -- those which contain the class of local measurements but nevertheless are free of entanglement between the component systems. We consider two quantities: The separable fidelity -- a truly quantum quantity -- which measures how well we can "clone" the input state, and the classical probability of success, which simply gives the optimal probability of identifying the state correctly. We obtain lower and upper bounds on the separable fidelity and give several examples in the bipartite and multipartite settings where these bounds are optimal. Moreover the optimal values in these cases can be attained by local measurements. We further show that for distinguishing orthogonal states under separable measurements, a strategy that maximizes the probability of success is also optimal for separable fidelity. We point out that the equality of fidelity and success probability does not depend on an using optimal strategy, only on the orthogonality of the states. To illustrate this, we present an example where two sets (one consisting of orthogonal states, and the other non-orthogonal states) are shown to have the same separable fidelity even though the success probabilities are different.

id: 1306.2713
title: Quantum Phase Estimation with an Arbitrary Number of Qubits
authors: Chen-Fu Chiang
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, vol.11, no.1, 1350008 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2713
abstract: Due to the great difficulty in scalability, quantum computers are limited in the number of qubits during the early stages of the quantum computing regime. In addition to the required qubits for storing the corresponding eigenvector, suppose we have additional k qubits available. Given such a constraint k, we propose an approach for the phase estimation for an eigenphase of exactly n-bit precision. This approach adopts the standard recursive circuit for quantum Fourier transform (QFT) and adopts classical bits to implement such a task. Our algorithm has the complexity of O(n \log k), instead of O(n^2) in the conventional QFT, in terms of the total invocation of rotation gates. We also design a scheme to implement the factorization algorithm by using k available qubits via either the continued fractions approach or the simultaneous diophantine approximation.

id: 1306.2715
title: Selecting Efficient Phase Estimation With Constant-Precision Phase Shift Operators
authors: Chen-Fu Chiang
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2715
abstract: We investigate the cost of three phase estimation procedures that require only constant-precision phase shift operators. The cost is in terms of the number of elementary gates, not just the number of measurements. Faster phase estimation requires the minimal number of measurements with a \log * factor of reduction when the required precision n is large. The arbitrary constant-precision approach (ACPA) requires the minimal number of elementary gates with a minimal factor of 14 of reduction in comparison to Kitaev's approach. The reduction factor increases as the precision gets higher in ACPA. Kitaev's approach is with a reduction factor of 14 in comparison to the faster phase estimation in terms of elementary gate counts.

id: 1306.2724
title: Efficient universal blind computation
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Lorenzo Maccone, Tomoyuki Morimae, Terry G. Rudolph
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 230501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2724
abstract: We give a cheat sensitive protocol for blind universal quantum computation that is efficient in terms of computational and communication resources: it allows one party to perform an arbitrary computation on a second party's quantum computer without revealing either which computation is performed, or its input and output. The first party's computational capabilities can be extremely limited: she must only be able to create and measure single-qubit superposition states. The second party is not required to use measurement-based quantum computation. The protocol requires the (optimal) exchange of O(J log(N)) single-qubit states, where J is the computational depth and N is the number of qubits needed for the computation.

id: 1306.2757
title: Quasi-lattice chains and multipartite entanglement in a cavity
authors: Hou Ian
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2757
abstract: Unlike atoms in a lattice, the spacings between neighboring qubits in a superconducting quantum circuit are mesoscopic and non-uniform. The strength of interaction between this quasi-lattice chain of qubits and a resonator mode in circuit transmission lines is inhomogeneous and geometrically dependent on the circuit layout. We propose a projection-deformation method to give analytically the eigenstates of the quasi-particle excitation that arise in the quasi-lattice. We further show that, during the quasi-particle excitation, the distribution of multi-photon resonances between the resonator photon and the quasi-lattice is determined by the degree the quasi-lattice is deformed from a normal lattice. The multi-photon resonances lead to simultaneous generation of GHZ-type and W-type of multipartite entanglement states of the qubits, which is enhanced by the inhomogeneous interaction. Comparing the concurrence and the 3-tangle generated, we find that the totally non-separable GHZ entanglement is specifically increased, up to two orders of magnitude.

id: 1306.2767
title: Two-photon optics of Bessel-Gaussian modes
authors: Melanie McLaren, Jacquiline Romero, Miles J. Padgett, Filippus S. Roux, Andrew Forbes
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2767
abstract: In this paper we consider geometrical two-photon optics of Bessel-Gaussian modes generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion of a Gaussian pump beam. We provide a general theoretical expression for the orbital angular momentum (OAM) spectrum and Schmidt number in this basis and show how this may be varied by control over the radial degree of freedom, a continuous parameter in Bessel-Gaussian modes. As a test we first implement a back-projection technique to classically predict, by experiment, the quantum correlations for Bessel-Gaussian modes produced by three holographic masks, a blazed axicon, binary axicon and a binary Bessel function. We then proceed to test the theory on the down-converted photons using the binary Bessel mask. We experimentally quantify the number of usable OAM modes and con?firm the theoretical prediction of a flattening in the OAM spectrum and a concomitant increase in the OAM bandwidth. The results have implications for the control of dimensionality in quantum states.

id: 1306.2804
title: The phase shift induced by a single atom in free space
authors: Markus Sondermann, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Europ. Opt. Soc. Rap. Public. 8, 13052 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2804
abstract: In this article we theoretically study the phase shift a single atom imprints onto a coherent state light beam in free space. The calculations are performed in a semiclassical framework. The key parameters governing the interaction and thus the measurable phase shift are the solid angle from which the light is focused onto the atom and the overlap of the incident radiation with the atomic dipole radiation pattern. The analysis includes saturation effects and discusses the associated Kerr-type non-linearity of a single atom.

id: 1306.2805
title: Linear response as a singular limit for a periodically driven closed quantum system
authors: Angelo Russomanno, Alessandro Silva, Giuseppe E. Santoro
comments: 31 pages, 7 figures. Improved final discussion, added appendix on the Bogoliubov-de Gennes-Floquet approach
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P09012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2805
abstract: We address the issue of the validity of linear response theory for a closed quantum system subject to a periodic external driving. Linear response theory (LRT) predicts energy absorption at frequencies of the external driving where the imaginary part of the appropriate response function is different from zero. Here we show that, for a fairly general non-linear many-body system on a lattice subject to an extensive perturbation, this approximation should be expected to be valid only up to a time $t^*$ depending on the strength of the driving, beyond which the true coherent Schr\"odinger evolution departs from the linear response prediction and the system stops absorbing energy form the driving. We exemplify this phenomenon in detail with the example of a quantum Ising chain subject to a time-periodic modulation of the transverse field, by comparing an exact Floquet analysis with the standard results of LRT. In this context, we also show that if the perturbation is just local, the system is expected in the thermodynamic limit to keep absorbing energy, and LRT works at all times. We finally argue more generally the validity of the scenario presented for closed quantum many-body lattice systems with a bound on the energy-per-site spectrum, discussing the experimental relevance of our findings in the context of cold atoms in optical lattices and ultra-fast spectroscopy experiments.

id: 1306.2811
title: Metric Structure of the Space of Two-Qubit Gates, Perfect Entanglers and Quantum Control
authors: Paul Watts, Maurice O'Connor, Jiri Vala
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures
journal: Entropy 15 (2013) 1963-1984
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2811
abstract: We derive expressions for the invariant length element and measure for the simple compact Lie group SU(4) in a coordinate system particularly suitable for treating entanglement in quantum information processing. Using this metric, we compute the invariant volume of the space of two-qubit perfect entanglers. We find that this volume corresponds to more than 84% of the total invariant volume of the space of two-qubit gates. This same metric is also used to determine the effective target sizes that selected gates will present in any quantum-control procedure designed to implement them.

id: 1306.2825
title: Equivalence of classicality and separability based on P phase-space representation of symmetric multiqubit states
authors: A R Usha Devi, A K Rajagopal, Sudha, H S Karthik, J Prabhu Tej
comments: 4 pages, Revtex, no figures
journal: Quantum Inf Process, 12, 3717 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2825
abstract: Classical and quantum world views differ in peculiar ways. Understanding decisive quantum features -- for which no classical explanation exist -- and their interrelations is of foundational interest. Moreover, recognizing non-classical features carries practical significance in information processing tasks as it offers insights as to why quantum protocols work better than their classical counterparts. We focus here on two celebrated notions of non-classicality viz., negativity of P phase-space representation and entanglement in symmetric multiqubit systems. We prove that they imply each other.

id: 1306.2879
title: Absolutely Maximally Entangled Qudit Graph States
authors: Wolfram Helwig
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2879
abstract: Absolutely maximally entangled (AME) states are multipartite entangled states that are maximally entangled for any possible bipartition. In this paper, we study the description of AME states within the graph state formalism. The graphical representation provides an intuitive framework to visualize the entanglement in graph states, which makes them a natural candidate to describe AME states. We show two different methods of determining bipartite entanglement in graph states and use them to define various AME graph states. We further show that AME graph states exist for all number of parties, and that any AME graph states shared between an even number of parties can be used to describe quantum secret sharing schemes with a threshold or ramp access structure directly within the graph states formalism.

id: 1306.2991
title: The Strength of the Weak: The Uncertainty Principle and More-Direct Access to the Wave Function through Weak Measurements
authors: David R Geelan
comments: 14 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1112.3575 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2991
abstract: Recent empirical work in the field of 'weak measurements' has yielded novel ways of more directly accessing and exploring the quantum wavefunction. Measuring either position or momentum for a photon in a 'weak' manner yields a wide range of possible values for the measurement, and can be done in such a way as to only minimally effect the wavefunction rather than to collapse it to a specific precise value. Measuring the other complementary variable (position or momentum) precisely at a later time ('post-selection') and averaging the weak measurements can yield information about the wavefunction that is not directly experimentally obtainable using other methods. This paper discusses two recent papers on weak measurement in the context of the uncertainty principle more broadly, and considers some possibilities for further research.

id: 1306.2993
title: Derivation of quantum mechanics from a single fundamental modification of the relations between physical properties
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: Final version for publication in Phys. Rev. A, with changed title and additional discussions of the relation with other statistical approaches and the relevance of recent experimental developments
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042115 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2993
abstract: Recent results obtained in quantum measurements indicate that the fundamental relations between three physical properties of a system can be represented by complex conditional probabilities. Here, it is shown that these relations provide a fully deterministic and universally valid framework on which all of quantum mechanics can be based. Specifically, quantum mechanics can be derived by combining the rules of Bayesian probability theory with only a single additional law that explains the phases of complex probabilities. This law, which I introduce here as the law of quantum ergodicity, is based on the observation that the reality of physical properties cannot be separated from the dynamics by which they emerge in measurement interactions. The complex phases are an expression of this inseparability and represent the dynamical structure of transformations between the different properties. In its quantitative form, the law of quantum ergodicity describes a fundamental relation between the ergodic probabilities obtained by dynamical averaging and the deterministic relations between three properties expressed by the complex conditional probabilities. The complete formalism of quantum mechanics can be derived from this one relation, without any axiomatic mathematical assumptions about state vectors or superpositions. It is therefore possible to explain all quantum phenomena as the consequence of a single fundamental law of physics.

id: 1306.3048
title: Past of a quantum particle and weak measurement
authors: Zheng-Hong Li, M. Al-Amri, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3048
abstract: We present an analysis of a double Mach-Zehnder interferometer in which an ensemble of identical pre- and postselected particles leave a weak trace. A knowledge of the weak value partially destroys the quantum interference. The results, contrary to some recent claims, are in accordance with the usual quantum mechanical expectations.

id: 1306.3095
title: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution with quantum memories
authors: Silvestre Abruzzo, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3095
abstract: We generalize measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution [ H.-K. Lo, M. Curty, and B. Qi, Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 130503 (2012) ] to the scenario where the Bell-state measurement station contains also heralded quantum memories. We find analytical formulas, in terms of device imperfections, for all quantities entering in the secret key rates, i.e., the quantum bit error rate and the repeater rate. We assume either single-photon sources or weak coherent pulse sources plus decoy states. We show that it is possible to significantly outperform the original proposal, even in presence of decoherence of the quantum memory. Our protocol may represent the first natural step for implementing a two-segment quantum repeater.

id: 1306.3121
title: The Paraconsistent Logic of Quantum Superpositions
authors: Newton da Costa, Christian de Ronde
comments: 19 pages, no figures. In Foundations of Physics, 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3121
abstract: Physical superpositions exist both in classical and in quantum physics. However, what is exactly meant by 'superposition' in each case is extremely different. In this paper we discuss some of the multiple interpretations which exist in the literature regarding superpositions in quantum mechanics. We argue that all these interpretations have something in common: they all attempt to avoid 'contradiction'. We argue in this paper, in favor of the importance of developing a new interpretation of superpositions which takes into account contradiction, as a key element of the formal structure of the theory, "right from the start". In order to show the feasibility of our interpretational project we present an outline of a paraconsistent approach to quantum superpositions which attempts to account for the contradictory properties present in general within quantum superpositions. This approach must not be understood as a closed formal and conceptual scheme but rather as a first step towards a different type of understanding regarding quantum superpositions.

id: 1306.3142
title: On quantum Renyi entropies: a new generalization and some properties
authors: Martin M¨¹ller-Lennert, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis, Oleg Szehr, Serge Fehr, Marco Tomamichel
comments: v1: contains several conjectures; v2: conjectures are resolved - see also arXiv:1306.5358 and arXiv:1306.5920; v3: published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 122203 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3142
abstract: The Renyi entropies constitute a family of information measures that generalizes the well-known Shannon entropy, inheriting many of its properties. They appear in the form of unconditional and conditional entropies, relative entropies or mutual information, and have found many applications in information theory and beyond. Various generalizations of Renyi entropies to the quantum setting have been proposed, most notably Petz's quasi-entropies and Renner's conditional min-, max- and collision entropy. Here, we argue that previous quantum extensions are incompatible and thus unsatisfactory. We propose a new quantum generalization of the family of Renyi entropies that contains the von Neumann entropy, min-entropy, collision entropy and the max-entropy as special cases, thus encompassing most quantum entropies in use today. We show several natural properties for this definition, including data-processing inequalities, a duality relation, and an entropic uncertainty relation.

id: 1306.3144
title: Parameter estimation using NOON states over a relativistic quantum channel
authors: Dominic Hosler, Pieter Kok
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052112 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3144
abstract: We study the effect of the acceleration of the observer on a parameter estimation protocol using NOON states. An inertial observer, Alice, prepares a NOON state in Unruh modes of the quantum field, and sends it to an accelerated observer, Rob. We calculate the quantum Fisher information of the state received by Rob. We find the counter-intuitive result that the single rail encoding outperforms the dual rail. The NOON states have an optimal $N$ for the maximum information extractable by Rob, given his acceleration. This optimal $N$ decreases with increasing acceleration.

id: 1306.3151
title: Non-locality breaking qubit channels
authors: Rajarshi Pal, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3151
abstract: Entanglement breaking channels play a significant role in quantum information theory. In this work we investigate qubit channels through their property of `non-locality breaking', defined in a natural way but within the purview of CHSH nonlocality. This also provides a different perspective on the relationship between entanglement and nonlocality through the dual picture of quantum channels instead of through states. For a channel to be entanglement breaking it is sufficient to `break' the entanglement of maximally entangled states. We provide examples to show that for CHSH nonlocality breaking such a property does not hold in general, though for certain channels and for a restricted class of states for all channels this holds.We also consider channels whose output remains local under SLOCC and call them `strongly non-locality breaking'. We provide a closed form necessary-sufficient condition for any two-qubit state to show hidden CHSH nonlocality, which is likely to be useful for other purposes as well. This in turn allows us to characterize all strongly non-locality breaking qubit channels. It turns out that unital qubit channels breaking nonlocality of maximally entangled states are strongly non-locality breaking while extremal qubit channels cannot be so unless they are entanglement breaking.

id: 1306.3168
title: Non-Gaussian entangled states and quantum teleportation of Schr?dinger-cat states
authors: Kaushik P. Seshadreesan, Jonathan P. Dowling, Girish S. Agarwal
comments: Accepted for publication in Physica Scripta. To appear in the special issue in honor of V. Manko and M. Manko. 12 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3168
abstract: In continuous-variable quantum information, non-Gaussian entangled states that are obtained from Gaussian entangled states via photon subtraction are known to contain more entanglement. This makes them better resources for quantum information processing protocols, such as, quantum teleportation. We discuss the teleportation of non-Gaussian, non-classical Schr\"odinger-cat states of light using two-mode squeezed vacuum light that is made non-Gaussian via subtraction of a photon from each of the two modes. We consider the experimentally realizable cat states produced by subtracting a photon from the single-mode squeezed vacuum state. We discuss two figures of merit for the teleportation process, a) the fidelity, and b) the maximum negativity of the Wigner function at the output. We elucidate how the non-Gaussian entangled resource lowers the requirements on the amount of squeezing necessary to achieve any given fidelity of teleportation, or to achieve negative values of the Wigner function at the output.

id: 1306.3182
title: Generalized qubit portrait of the qutrit state density matrix
authors: V. N. Chernega, O. V. Man'ko, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 5 pages, submitte to Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3182
abstract: New inequalities for tomographic probability distributions and density matrices of qutrit states are obtained by means of generalization of qubit portrait method. The approach based on the qudit portrait method to get new entropic inequalities is proposed. It can be applied to the case of arbutrary nonnegative hermitian matrices including the density matrices of multipartite qudit states.

id: 1306.3200
title: Synthesis of unitaries with Clifford+T circuits
authors: Vadym Kliuchnikov
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3200
abstract: We describe a new method for approximating an arbitrary $n$ qubit unitary with precision $\varepsilon$ using a Clifford and T circuit with $O(4^{n}n(\log(1/\varepsilon)+n))$ gates. The method is based on rounding off a unitary to a unitary over the ring $\mathbb{Z}[i,1/\sqrt{2}]$ and employing exact synthesis. We also show that any $n$ qubit unitary over the ring $\mathbb{Z}[i,1/\sqrt{2}]$ with entries of the form $(a+b\sqrt{2}+ic+id\sqrt{2})/2^{k}$ can be exactly synthesized using $O(4^{n}nk)$ Clifford and T gates using two ancillary qubits. This new exact synthesis algorithm is an improvement over the best known exact synthesis method by B. Giles and P. Selinger requiring $O(3^{2^{n}}nk)$ elementary gates.

id: 1306.3216
title: On the 'Reality' of Observable Properties
authors: Shane Mansfield
comments: 8 pages, re-written with new section 5
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3216
abstract: This note contains some initial work on attempting to bring recent developments in the foundations of quantum mechanics concerning the nature of the wavefunction within the scope of more logical and structural methods. A first step involves generalising and reformulating a criterion for the reality of the wavefunction proposed by Harrigan & Spekkens, which was central to the PBR theorem. The resulting criterion has several advantages, including the avoidance of certain technical difficulties relating to sets of measure zero. By considering the 'reality' not of the wavefunction but of the observable properties of any ontological physical theory a novel characterisation of non-locality and contextuality is found. Secondly, a careful analysis of preparation independence, one of the key assumptions of the PBR theorem, leads to an analogy with Bell locality, and thence to a proposal to weaken it to an assumption of `no-preparation-signalling' in analogy with no-signalling. This amounts to introducing non-local correlations in the joint ontic state, which is, at least, consistent with the Bell and Kochen-Specker theorems. The question of whether the PBR result can be strengthened to hold under this relaxed assumption is therefore posed.

id: 1306.3248
title: Detecting initial system-environment correlations: Performance of various distance measures for quantum states
authors: S. Wissmann, B. Leggio, H.-P. Breuer
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3248
abstract: We study the time evolution of four distance measures in the presence of initial systemenvironment correlations. It is well-known that the trace distance between two quantum states of an open system may increase due to initial correlations which leads to a breakdown of the contractivity of the reduced dynamics. Here we compare and analyze, for two different models, the time evolution of the trace distance, the Bures metric, the Hellinger distance and the Jensen-Shannon divergence regarding an increase above their initial values, witnessing initial correlations. This work generalizes, deepens and corrects the study performed by Dajka et al. [Phys. Rev. A 84 032120 (2011)] and thereby reveals generic features of the considered distance measures with respect to the capability of detecting initial system-environment correlations.

id: 1306.3299
title: Quantum Dynamics in Classical Spin Baths
authors: Alessandro Sergi
comments: Accepted as a Communication in The Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3299
abstract: A formalism for studying the dynamics of quantum systems embedded in classical spin baths is introduced. The theory is based on generalized antisymmetric brackets and predicts the presence of open-path off-diagonal geometric phases in the evolution of the density matrix. The weak coupling limit of the equation can be integrated by standard algorithms and provides a non-Markovian approach to the computer simulation of quantum systems in classical spin environments. It is expected that the theory and numerical schemes presented here have a wide applicability.

id: 1306.3325
title: CSCO Criterion for Entanglement and Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle
authors: Jinyan Zeng, Yian Lei, S. Y. Pei, X. C. Zeng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3325
abstract: We show that quantum entanglement and the Heisenberg uncertainty principle are inextricably connected. Toward this end, a complete set of commuting observables (CSCO) criterion for the entanglement is developed. Assuming (A1,A2,...) and (B1,B2,...) being two CSCO's for a given system, and C being the matrix, Cij = i [Bi,Aj], for each given row i (i=1,2,...) if at least one matrix element Cij (j=1,2,...) is nonzero, then for the simultaneous eigenstates |\psi)=|A1',A2',...) of (A1,A2,...), the simultaneous measurements of (B1,B2,...) are, in general,entangled. The only exception is when all the simultaneous eigenstates |\psi)= A1', A2',...), (\psi|C|\psi)=0. This CSCO criterion may be considered as an extension of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle to quantum systems with either two (or more) particles or multi-degrees of freedom (MDF).

id: 1306.3348
title: On the gauge of the natural lineshape
authors: Adam Stokes
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures, 3 tables
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 145505
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3348
abstract: We use a general formulation of nonrelativistic quantum electrodynamics in which the gauge freedom is carried by the arbitrary transverse component of the the Green's function for the divergence operator to calculate the natural lineshape of spontaneous emission, thus discerning the full dependence of the result on the choice of gauge. We also use a representation of the Hamiltonian in which the virtual field associated with the atomic ground state is explicitly absent. We consider two processes by which the atom is excited; the first is resonant absorption of incident radiation with a sharp line. This treatment is then adapted to derive a resonance fluorescence rate associated with the Lamb line in atomic hydrogen. Second we consider the atom's excitation due to irradiation with a laser pulse treated semi-classically. An experiment could be used to reveal which of the calculated lineshape distributions is closest to the measured one. This would provide an answer to a question of fundamental importance; how does one best describe atom-radiation interactions with the canonical formalism?

id: 1306.3363
title: Calculation of the quantum discord in many-qubit systems
authors: A.Y. Chernyavskiy, S.I. Doronin, E.B. Fel'dman
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. T 160, 014007 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3363
abstract: For the first time, we compute the quantum discord in bipartite systems containing up to nine qubits. An analytical expression is obtained for the discord in a bipartite system with three qubits. The dependence of the discord on the temperature and the structural parameter of the model is studied.

id: 1306.3366
title: Optical Generation of Ultra-Large-Scale Continuous-Variable Cluster States
authors: Shota Yokoyama, Ryuji Ukai, Seiji C. Armstrong, Chanond Sornphiphatphong, Toshiyuki Kaji, Shigenari Suzuki, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Nicolas C. Menicucci, Akira Furusawa
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 982-986 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3366
abstract: Entanglement is a uniquely quantum phenomenon and a physical resource that can be used for quantum information processing. Cluster states are multipartite states with an entanglement structure that is robust to local measurements and can be used for measurement-based quantum computation. To date, the largest optically generated cluster state consists of 8 entangled qubits, while the largest multipartite entangled state of any sort to date involves 14 trapped ions. These implementations consist of quantum entities separated in space, and in general each experimental apparatus is used only once. This inherent inefficiency prohibits the generation of larger entangled states due to the experimental setup requiring additional components as the state grows. Here, we report the experimental generation and full characterisation of an ultra-large-scale entangled state containing more than 10,000 entangled modes that is equivalent to a continuous-variable cluster state up to local phase shifts. This is an improvement by 3 orders of magnitude over the largest entangled states created to date. The entangled modes are individually addressable, finite-duration wavepackets of light in two beams that are multiplexed in the time domain and created deterministically. Our ultra-large-scale entangled states are an important contribution to investigations of quantum information processing.

id: 1306.3368
title: Experimental plug&play quantum coin flipping
authors: Anna Pappa, Paul Jouguet, Thomas Lawson, Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Matthieu Legr¨¦, Patrick Trinkler, Iordanis Kerenidis, Eleni Diamanti
comments: Version 2, 19 pages including detailed security analysis
journal: Nature Communications 5: 3717, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3368
abstract: Performing complex cryptographic tasks will be an essential element in future quantum communication networks. These tasks are based on a handful of fundamental primitives, such as coin flipping, where two distrustful parties wish to agree on a randomly generated bit. Although it is known that quantum versions of these primitives can offer information-theoretic security advantages with respect to classical protocols, a demonstration of such an advantage in a practical communication scenario has remained elusive. Here, we experimentally implement a quantum coin flipping protocol that performs strictly better than classically possible over a distance suitable for communication over metropolitan area optical networks. The implementation is based on a practical plug&play system, designed for quantum key distribution. We also show how to combine our protocol with coin flipping protocols that are almost perfectly secure against bounded adversaries, hence enhancing them with a level of information-theoretic security. Our results offer a powerful toolbox for future secure quantum communications.

id: 1306.3370
title: Quantum holonomic phases of higher-dimensional parameter spaces
authors: J. Loredo, M. A. Broome, D. H. Smith, A. G. White
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3370
abstract: A key challenge in quantum computing is avoiding decoherence, so that the fragile quantum properties of a system are not lost to the surrounding environment. Holonomic phases, i.e. geometric and topological, can play an important role in bypassing decoherence. They provide a platform for fault-tolerant universal quantum computing based entirely on geometric phase transformations, called holonomic quantum computation. Current candidates for this approach rely on the robustness of well known geometric phases in the Poincar\'e sphere parameter space. Here we expand upon this work by experimentally demonstrating holonomic phases in a six-dimensional parameter space of a two-qubit photonic system. We find that as the entanglement between qubits increases, the resulting holonomic phase becomes less affected by changes in the state evolution. At the point of maximal entanglement the holonomic phase becomes topological and most resilient to evolution changes. Our results motivate the pursuit of holonomic quantum computation enhanced by robust topological phases.

id: 1306.3377
title: Suppression of quantum-mechanical reflection by environmental decoherence
authors: D.J.Bedingham, J.J.Halliwell
comments: 43 pages, Latex. Revised in response to referee comments. Accepted for publication in Phys Rev A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3377
abstract: In quantum mechanics an incoming particle wave packet with sufficient energy will undergo both transmission and reflection when encountering a barrier of lower energy, but in classical mechanics there is no reflection, only transmission. In this paper we seek to explain the disappearance of quantum-mechanical reflection in the quasi-classical limit, using standard methods of decoherence through environmental interaction. We consider two models. In the first, the incoming particle is classicalized by coupling it to an environment described by a standard Lindblad master equation diagonalizing in position. We find, however, that suppression of reflection is achieved only for environmental interaction so strong that large fluctuations in momentum are generated which blurs the distinction between incoming and reflected wave packets. This negative conclusion also holds for a complex potential which has similar implications for attempts to understand the suppression of the Zeno effect using the same mechanism (discussed in more detail in another paper). A different Lindblad master diagonalizing in momentum is shown to be successful in suppressing reflection without large fluctuations but such a master equation is unphysical. We consider a second model in which the barrier is modelled quantum-mechanically by a massive target particle coupled to an environment to maintain it in a quasi-classical state. This avoids the fluctuations problem since the incoming particle is not coupled to the environment directly. We find that reflection is significantly suppressed as long as the decoherence timescale of the target particle is much smaller than certain characteristic scattering timescales of the incoming particle, or equivalently, as long as the velocity fluctuations in the target are larger than the velocity of the incoming particle.

id: 1306.3388
title: Quantum no-key protocol for secure communication of classical message
authors: Li Yang
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3388
abstract: We propose a class of quantum no-key protocols for private communication of classical message based on quantum computing of random Boolean permutations, and demonstrate that they are information-theoretic secure. These protocols are designed to resist middleman attack for two parties preshared authentication key, and achieve perfect mutual data origin authentication which ensures the permanent reusing of authentication key. Finally, we simplify the protocol to a 4-round one, and show that any protocol with 3 or less rounds cannot achieve perfect security without consuming preshared key.

id: 1306.3425
title: A complete characterisation of the heralded noiseless amplification of photons
authors: N. Bruno, V. Pini, A. Martin, R. T. Thew
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3425
abstract: Heralded noiseless amplifcation of photons has recently been shown to provide a means to overcome losses in complex quantum communication tasks. In particular, to overcome transmission losses that could allow for the violation of a Bell inequality free from the detection loophole, for Device Independent Quantum Key Distribution (DI-QKD). Several implementations of a heralded photon amplifier have been proposed and the first proof of principle experiments realised. Here we present the first full characterisation of such a device to test its functional limits and potential for DI-QKD. This device is tested at telecom wavelengths and is shown to be capable of overcoming losses corresponding to a transmission through $20\, \rm km$ of single mode telecom fibre. We demonstrate heralded photon amplifier with a gain $>100$ and a heralding probability $>83 % $, required by DI-QKD protocols that use the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality. The heralded photon amplifier clearly represents a key technology for the realisation of DI-QKD in the real world and over typical network distances.

id: 1306.3489
title: High Capacity Quantum Key Distribution via Hyper-Entangled Degrees of Freedom
authors: David S. Simon, Alexander V. Sergienko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3489
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) has long been a promising area for application of quantum effects toward solving real-world problems. But two major obstacles have stood in the way of widespread applications: low secure key generation rates and short achievable operating distances. In this paper, a new physical mechanism for dealing with the first of these problems is proposed: interplay between different degrees of freedom in a hyperentangled system (parametric down conversion) is used to increase the Hilbert space dimension available for key generation while maintaining security. Polarization-based Bell tests provide security checking, while orbital angular momentum (OAM) and total angular momentum (TAM) provide higher key generation rate. Whether to measure TAM or OAM is decided randomly on each trial. The concurrent non-commutativity of TAM with OAM and polarization provides the physical basis for quantum security. TAM measurements link polarization to OAM, so that if the legitimate participants measure OAM while the eavesdropper measures TAM (or vice-versa), then polarization entanglement is lost, revealing the eavesdropper. In contrast to other OAM-based QKD methods, complex active switching between OAM bases is not required; instead, passive switching by beam splitters combined with much simpler active switching between polarization bases makes implementation at high OAM more practical.

id: 1306.3499
title: Coherent States, Superpositions of Coherent States and Uncertainty Relations on a M?bius Strip
authors: Thiago Prud¨ºncio, Diego Julio Cirilo-Lombardo
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Modern Physics Letters A, 28, 1350058 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3499
abstract: Since symmetry properties of coherent states (CS) on M\"obius strip (MS) and fermions are closely related, CS on MS are naturally associated to the topological properties of fermionic fields. Here we consider CS and superpositions of coherent states (SCS) on MS. We extend a recent propose of CS on MS (Cirilo-Lombardo, 2012 [25]), including the analysis of periodic behaviors of CS and SCS on MS and the uncertainty relations associated to angular momentum and the phase angle. The advantage of CS and SCS on MS with respect to the standard ones and potential applications in continuous variable quantum computation are also addressed.

id: 1306.3539
title: Entanglement classification of 2 X 2 X 2 X d quantum systems via the ranks of the multiple coefficient matrices
authors: Shuhao Wang, Yao Lu, Gui-Lu Long
comments: 7 pages and 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062305 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3539
abstract: The coefficient matrix is an efficient tool in entanglement classification under stochastic local operation and classical communication. In this work, we take all the ranks of the coefficient matrices into account in the method of entanglement classification, and give the entanglement classification procedure for arbitrary-dimensional multipartite pure states under stochastic local operation and classical communication. As a main application, we study the entanglement classification for quantum systems in the Hilbert space ${\cal H} = \mathbb{C}^2 \otimes \mathbb{C}^2 \otimes \mathbb{C}^2 \otimes \mathbb{C}^d$ in terms of the ranks of the coefficient matrices.

id: 1306.3553
title: Bound state of particle in delta-potential in tomographic representation of quantum mechanics
authors: I.V.Dudinetc, V.I.Manko
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3553
abstract: The problem of quantum particle moving in Dirac delta potential with instant changing well depth is studied by using formalism of tomographic representation of quantum mechanics.The bound state tomogram is given in terms of error function.The ionisation probability due to instant change of the potential parameter is calculated in terms of integral containing the state tomograms.The probability of ionisation is also expressed in terms of the Wigner function.

id: 1306.3645
title: Massless particles and arrow of time in relativistic quantum field theory
authors: Detlev Buchholz
comments: 20 pages, in German, 11 figures, solicited by Ev. Studienwerk Villigst for the book project "Raum und Materie"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3645
abstract: Introduction (in German) to a novel approach to sector analysis in theories with long range forces which avoids notorious infrared problems; cf. arXiv:1304.2794

id: 1306.3654
title: Optimal concentrating arbitrary partially entangled W states with linear optics
authors: Lan Zhou, Yu-Bo Sheng
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3654
abstract: We propose two optimal entanglement concentration protocols (ECPs) for arbitrary single-photon multi-mode W state and multi-photon polarization W state, respectively. In both ECPs, we only require one pair of partially entangled W state, and do not consume any auxiliary photon. Both ECPs are based on the linear optics which can be easily realized. On the other hand, the concentrated maximally entangled states can be remained, which are quite different from the previous ECPs. Moreover, for the concentration of the arbitrary single-photon N-mode W state or N-mode polarization W state, the total success probability is equal to Nth the modulus square of the Schmidt coefficient of the smallest magnitude. It makes both ECPs optimal than all the previous ECPs. Our ECPs may be useful in current quantum communication fields.

id: 1306.3664
title: Fault-tolerant Operations for Universal Blind Quantum Computation
authors: Chia-Hung Chien, Rodney Van Meter, Sy-Yen Kuo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3664
abstract: Blind quantum computation is an appealing use of quantum information technology because it can conceal both the client's data and the algorithm itself from the server. However, problems need to be solved in the practical use of blind quantum computation and fault-tolerance is a major challenge. On an example circuit, the computational cost measured in T gates executed by the client is 97 times more than performing the original computation directly, without using the server, even before applying error correction. (The client still benefits due to drastically reduced memory requirements.) Broadbent et al. proposed running error correction over blind computation, but our first protocol applies one layer of Steane's [[7,1,3]] code underneath instead. This protocol has better fault tolerance, but still results in a substantial overhead. We propose another protocol to reduce the client's computational load by transferring the qubit preparation to the server. For each logical qubit used in the computation, the client is only required to receive eight logical qubits via teleportation then buffer two logical qubits before returning one. This protocol also protects the client's fault-tolerant preparation of logical qubits from a side-channel attack.

id: 1306.3677
title: Optimal Blind Quantum Computation
authors: Atul Mantri, Carlos A. Perez-Delgado, Joseph F. Fitzsimons
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 230502 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3677
abstract: Blind quantum computation allows a client with limited quantum capabilities to interact with a remote quantum computer to perform an arbitrary quantum computation, while keeping the description of that computation hidden from the remote quantum computer. While a number of protocols have been proposed in recent years, little is currently understood about the resources necessary to accomplish the task. Here we present general techniques for upper and lower bounding the quantum communication necessary to perform blind quantum computation, and use these techniques to establish a concrete bounds for common choices of the client's quantum capabilities. Our results show that the UBQC protocol of Broadbent, Fitzsimons and Kashefi [1], comes within a factor of 8/3 of optimal when the client is restricted to preparing single qubits. However, we describe a generalization of this protocol which requires exponentially less quantum communication when the client has a more sophisticated device.

id: 1306.3700
title: Contextuality in bosonic bunching
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Akihito Soeda, Jayne Thompson, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, extended version of arXiv:1211.6907, discussion includes response to arXiv:1212.5502
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3700
abstract: We show that under certain assumptions one can derive a variant of Specker's non-contextual inequality for a system of three indistinguishable bosonic particles. The inequality states that the sum of probabilities of three pairwise exclusive events is bounded by one. This inequality cannot be violated using standard quantum mechanical projectors. On the other hand, due to bosonic properties this bound is violated up to 3/2. We also argue that the violation of this inequality can be considered as a test of bosonic nature.

id: 1306.3728
title: Entanglement Structure of an Open System of $N$ Quantum Oscillators: II. Strong Disparate Couplings N=3
authors: J.-T. Hsiang, Rong Zhou, B. L. Hu
comments: 62 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3728
abstract: In this paper we study a system of $N$ coupled quantum oscillators interacting with each other directly with varying coupling strengths and indirectly through linear couplings to a scalar massless quantum field as its environment. The influence of the quantum field on the system is calculated with the use of the influence functional formalism. We take the direct route of seeking solutions to the evolutionary operator of the reduced density matrix for the derivation of the correlation functions. They are then used to construct the covariance matrix which we use to perform an analysis of the structure of quantum entanglement in the open system at a stationary state. To see the physical features more explicitly we specialize to a system of three quantum coupled oscillators placed at the vertices of a equilateral triangle and allowed to have disparate pairwise couplings. We analyze the entanglement between one oscillator and the other two with equal (symmetric) and unequal (asymmetric) coupling strengths. As an illustration we use the results for these two different configurations to address two representative issues in macroscopic quantum phenomena. We also mention possible extensions of our work and applications of our analysis and results to issues in some current areas of research in quantum thermodynamics and mesoscopic quantum systems.

id: 1306.3746
title: Single-atom polarizer
authors: W. A. Li, L. F. Wei
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3746
abstract: Traditional polarizer provides a way to convert an unknown polarization into a specified polarization. According to Malus, the intensity of the transmission is directly proportional to the square of the cosine of angle between the transmission axes of the polarizer and the incident polarization. There, the intensity refers to the collective behavior of many photons. Here we propose a novel approach to realizing polarization-filtering at single-photon level. We discuss how a single planepolarized photon transports through a polarized analyzer generated by a single atom (the so-called "single-atom polarizer"), and provide a single quantum version of Malus's law. We investigate the quantum scattering of a single photon by a controllable four-level atom inside a one-dimensional waveguide. By using real-space theoretical approach, we obtain analytic expressions of the transmission spectrum of the photon. Then, our numerical experiments show that the transmitted probability of the incident photon can be controlled by selecting the polarized-dependent transition configuration of the driven atom. The application of such a single-atom polarizer to linear optical quantum information processing is also discussed.

id: 1306.3749
title: Investigations of afterpulsing and detection efficiency recovery in superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors
authors: Viacheslav Burenkov, He Xu, Bing Qi, Robert H. Hadfield, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 113, 213102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3749
abstract: We report on the observation of a non-uniform dark count rate in Superconducting Nanowire Single Photon Detectors (SNSPDs), specifically focusing on an afterpulsing effect present when the SNSPD is operated at a high bias current regime. The afterpulsing exists for real detection events (triggered by input photons) as well as for dark counts (no laser input). In our standard set-up, the afterpulsing is most likely to occur at around 180 ns following a detection event, for both real counts and dark counts. We characterize the afterpulsing behavior and speculate that it is not due to the SNSPD itself but rather the amplifiers used to boost the electrical output signal from the SNSPD. We show that the afterpulsing indeed disappears when we use a different amplifier with a better low frequency response. We also examine the short-lived enhancement of detection efficiency during the recovery of the SNSPD due to temporary perturbation of the bias and grounding conditions.

id: 1306.3760
title: A Space-Efficient Design for Reversible Floating Point Adder in Quantum Computing
authors: Trung Duc Nguyen, Rodney Van Meter
comments: 11 pages, 21 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3760
abstract: Reversible logic has applications in low-power computing and quantum computing. However, there are few existing designs for reversible floating-point adders and none suitable for quantum computation. In this paper we propose a space-efficient reversible floating-point adder, suitable for binary quantum computation, improving the design of Nachtigal et al. Our work focuses on improving the reversible designs of the alignment unit and the normalization unit, which are the most expensive parts. By changing a few elements of the existing algorithm, including the circuit designs of the RLZC (reversible leading zero counter) and converter, we have reduced the cost about 68%. We also propose fault-tolerant designs for the circuits. The KQ for our fault-tolerant design is almost sixty times as expensive as for a 32-bit fixed-point addition. We note that the floating-point representation makes in-place, truly reversible arithmetic impossible, requiring us to retain both inputs, which limits the sustainability of its use for quantum computation.

id: 1306.3791
title: A gambling interpretation of some quantum information-theoretic quantities
authors: Naresh Sharma
comments: Corrected typos and changed abstract a bit
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3791
abstract: It is known that repeated gambling over the outcomes of independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) random variables gives rise to alternate operational meaning of entropies in the classical case in terms of the doubling rates. We give a quantum extension of this approach for gambling over the measurement outcomes of tensor product states. Under certain parameters of the gambling setup, one can give operational meaning of von Neumann entropies. We discuss two variants of gambling when a helper is available and it is shown that the difference in their doubling rates is the quantum discord. Lastly, a quantum extension of Kelly's gambling setup in the classical case gives a doubling rate that is upper bounded by the Holevo information.

id: 1306.3805
title: Designing Bell inequalities from a Tsirelson bound
authors: Michael Epping, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 240404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3805
abstract: We present a simple analytic bound on the quantum value of general correlation type Bell inequalities, similar to Tsirelson's bound. It is based on the maximal singular value of the coefficient matrix associated with the inequality. We provide a criterion for tightness of the bound and show that the class of inequalities where our bound is tight covers many famous examples from the literature. We describe how this bound helps to construct Bell inequalities, in particular inequalities that witness the dimension of the measured observables.

id: 1306.3871
title: Eigenvalue structure of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a PT-symmetric double well
authors: Dennis Dast, Daniel Haag, Holger Cartarius, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 20 pages, 11 figures, additions in the text, to be published in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 375301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3871
abstract: We study a Bose-Einstein condensate in a PT-symmetric double-well potential where particles are coherently injected in one well and removed from the other well. In mean-field approximation the condensate is described by the Gross-Pitaevskii equation thus falling into the category of nonlinear non-Hermitian quantum systems. After extending the concept of PT symmetry to such systems, we apply an analytic continuation to the Gross-Pitaevskii equation from complex to bicomplex numbers and show a thorough numerical investigation of the four-dimensional bicomplex eigenvalue spectrum. The continuation introduces additional symmetries to the system which are confirmed by the numerical calculations and furthermore allows us to analyze the bifurcation scenarios and exceptional points of the system. We present a linear matrix model and show the excellent agreement with our numerical results. The matrix model includes both exceptional points found in the double-well potential, namely an EP2 at the tangent bifurcation and an EP3 at the pitchfork bifurcation. When the two bifurcation points coincide the matrix model possesses four degenerate eigenvectors. Close to that point we observe the characteristic features of four interacting modes in both the matrix model and the numerical calculations, which provides clear evidence for the existence of an EP4.

id: 1306.3902
title: Scattering of an exponential pulse by a single atom
authors: Markus Sondermann, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 5 pages, one figure
journal: Romanian Reports in Physics, Vol. 65, pp. 638-645 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3902
abstract: We discuss the scattering of a light pulse by a single atom in free space using a purely semi-classical framework. The atom is treated as a linear elastic scatterer allowing to treat each spectral component of the incident pulse separately. For an increasing exponential pulse with a dipole radiation pattern incident from full solid angle the spectrum resulting from interference of incident and scattered components is a decreasing exponential pulse.

id: 1306.3913
title: Observation of Squeezing in the Electron Quantum Shot Noise of a Tunnel Junction
authors: Gabriel Gasse, Christian Lupien, Bertrand Reulet
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 136601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3913
abstract: We report the measurement of the fluctuations of the two quadratures of the electromagnetic field generated by a quantum conductor, a dc- and ac-biased tunnel junction placed at very low temperature.We observe that the variance of the fluctuations on one quadrature can go below that of vacuum, i.e., that the radiated field is squeezed. This demonstrates the quantum nature of the radiated electromagnetic field.

id: 1306.3925
title: Recurrence Theorems: a unified account
authors: David Wallace
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3925
abstract: I discuss classical and quantum recurrence theorems in a unified manner, treating both as generalisations of the fact that a system with a finite state space only has so many places to go. Along the way I prove versions of the recurrence theorem applicable to dynamics on linear and metric spaces, and make some comments about applications of the classical recurrence theorem in the foundations of statistical mechanics.

id: 1306.3945
title: Semiclassical matrix elements for a chaotic propagator in the Scar functions basis
authors: Alejandro M.F Rivas
comments: 20 pages, no figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0612220
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 145101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3945
abstract: A semiclassical approximation for the matrix elements of a quantum chaotic propagator in the scar function basis has been derived. The obtained expression is solely expressed in terms of canonical invariant objects. For our purpose, we have used, the recently developed, semiclassical matrix elements of the propagator in coherent states, together with the linearization of the flux in the neighborhood of a classically unstable periodic orbit of chaotic two dimensional systems. The expression here derived is successfully verified to be exact for a (linear) cat map, after the theory is adapted to a discrete phase space appropriate to a quantized torus.

id: 1306.3951
title: A Reconstruction of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Simon Kochen
comments: Accepted by Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3951
abstract: We formulate a general principle that supplants a Boolean \sigma-algebra of intrinsic properties of a classical system by a \sigma-complex (a union of \sigma-algebras) of extrinsic properties of a quantum system that are elicited by interactions with other systems. We apply the canonical definitions of the concepts of classical physics of observables, states, combined systems, symmetries, and dynamics to derive the standard quantum characterizations, including the Schr\"odinger equation and the von Neumann-L\"uder's Projection Rule. This manifestly consistent reconstruction of quantum mechanics is then used to discuss and resolve the dilemmas of the orthodox interpretation.

id: 1306.3991
title: Efficient Quantum Circuits for Diagonal Unitaries Without Ancillas
authors: Jonathan Welch, Daniel Greenbaum, Sarah Mostame, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3991
abstract: The accurate evaluation of diagonal unitary operators is often the most resource-intensive element of quantum algorithms such as real-space quantum simulation and Grover search. Efficient circuits have been demonstrated in some cases but generally require ancilla registers, which can dominate the qubit resources. In this paper, we point out a correspondence between Walsh functions and a basis for diagonal operators that gives a simple way to construct efficient circuits for diagonal unitaries without ancillas. This correspondence reduces the problem of constructing the minimal-depth circuit within a given error tolerance, for an arbitrary diagonal unitary $e^{if(\hat{x})}$ in the $|x>$ basis, to that of finding the minimal-length Walsh-series approximation to the function $f(x)$. We apply this approach to the quantum simulation of the classical Eckart barrier problem of quantum chemistry, demonstrating that high-fidelity quantum simulations can be achieved with few qubits and low depth.

id: 1306.3995
title: Boson-Sampling in the light of sample complexity
authors: C. Gogolin, M. Kliesch, L. Aolita, J. Eisert
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure, typos corrected and minor improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3995
abstract: Boson-Sampling is a classically computationally hard problem that can - in principle - be efficiently solved with quantum linear optical networks. Very recently, a rush of experimental activity has ignited with the aim of developing such devices as feasible instances of quantum simulators. Even approximate Boson-Sampling is believed to be hard with high probability if the unitary describing the optical network is drawn from the Haar measure. In this work we show that in this setup, with probability exponentially close to one in the number of bosons, no symmetric algorithm can distinguish the Boson-Sampling distribution from the uniform one from fewer than exponentially many samples. This means that the two distributions are operationally indistinguishable without detailed a priori knowledge. We carefully discuss the prospects of efficiently using knowledge about the implemented unitary for devising non-symmetric algorithms that could potentially improve upon this. We conclude that due to the very fact that Boson-Sampling is believed to be hard, efficient classical certification of Boson-Sampling devices seems to be out of reach.

id: 1306.4039
title: Tomographic Discord and Quantum Correlations for System of Qubits
authors: V.I.Manko, Anatoli Yurkevich
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4039
abstract: The difference of quantum mutual information for bipartite system of qubits and minimum taken with respect to local unitary transformation group is introduced as a characteristic of quantum correlations.The two qubits example (and specifically the two qubits X state) is studied in some details.

id: 1306.4057
title: Generation of N-atom W-class states in spatially separated cavities
authors: Mei Lu, Yan Xia, Jie Song, Nguyen Ba An
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, Accepted by J. Opt. Soc. Am. B
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 30, 2142 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4057
abstract: We propose a feasible and efficient scheme to generate $N$-atom $W$-class states in spatially separated cavities without using any classical driving pulses. We adopt the model in which the couplings between different atoms are mediated only by virtual excitations of the cavity and fiber fields, so the scheme is insensitive to the cavity decay and fiber photon leakage. We carry out both theoretical investigation in a decoherence-free subspace and numerical calculation accounting for decoherence due to the atomic spontaneous emission as well as the decay of cavity and fiber modes. The theoretical and numerical results agree in the large atom-cavity detuning regime. Our scheme proves to be useful in scalable distributed quantum networks.

id: 1306.4062
title: Success rates for linear optical generation of cluster states in coincidence basis
authors: D. B. Uskov, P. M. Alsing, M. L. Fanto, L. Kaplan, A. M. Smith
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4062
abstract: We report on theoretical research in photonic cluster-state computing. Finding optimal schemes of generating non-classical photonic states is of critical importance for this field as physically implementable photon-photon entangling operations are currently limited to measurement-assisted stochastic transformations. A critical parameter for assessing the efficiency of such transformations is the success probability of a desired measurement outcome. At present there are several experimental groups which are capable of generating multi-photon cluster states carrying more than eight qubits. Separate photonic qubits or small clusters can be fused into a single cluster state by a probabilistic optical CZ gate conditioned on simultaneous detection of all photons with 1/9 success probability of each gate. This design mechanically follows the original theoretical scheme of cluster state generation proposed more than a decade ago by Raussendorf, Browne and Briegel. The optimality of the destructive CZ gate in application to linear optical cluster state generation has not been analyzed previously. Our results reveal that this method is far from the optimal one. Employing numerical optimization we have identified that maximal success probability of fusing n unentangled dual-rail optical qubits into a linear cluster state is equal to 1/2^(n-1); m-tuple of photonic Bell pair states, commonly generated via spontaneous parametric down-conversion, can be fused into a single cluster with the maximal success probability of 1/4^(m-1).

id: 1306.4132
title: Coupling of a Single Quantum Emitter to End-to-end Aligned Silver Nanowires
authors: Shailesh Kumar, Alexander Huck, Yuntian Chen, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 103106 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4132
abstract: We report on the observation of coupling a single nitrogen vacancy (NV) center in a nanodiamond crystal to a propagating plasmonic mode of silver nanowires. The nanocrystal is placed either near to the apex of a single silver nanowire or in the gap between two end-to-end aligned silver nanowires. We observe an enhancement of the NV-centers' decay rate in both cases as a result of the coupling to the plasmons. The devices are nano-assembled with a scanning probe technique. Through simulations, we show that end-to-end aligned silver nanowires can be used as a controllable splitter for emission from a dipole emitter.

id: 1306.4137
title: Quantum communication without the necessity of quantum memories
authors: W. J. Munro, A. M. Stephens, S. J. Devitt, K. A. Harrison, Kae Nemoto
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 6, 777 - 781 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4137
abstract: Quantum physics is known to allow for completely new ways to create, manipulate and store information. Quantum communication - the ability to transmit quantum information - is a primitive necessary for any quantum internet. At its core, quantum communication generally requires the formation of entangled links between remote locations. The performance of these links is limited by the classical signaling time between such locations - necessitating the need for long lived quantum memories. Here we present the design of a communications network which neither requires the establishment of entanglement between remote locations nor the use of long-lived quantum memories. The rate at which quantum data can be transmitted along the network is only limited by the time required to perform efficient local gate operations. Our scheme thus potentially provides higher communications rates than previously thought possible.

id: 1306.4166
title: A New Family of Probability Distributions and Asymptotics of Classical and LOCC Conversions
authors: Wataru Kumagai, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 44 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4166
abstract: We consider the optimal approximate conversion between multiple copies of pure entangled states in quantum systems when only local operations and classical communications (LOCC) are allowed. This problem contains a kind of cloning problem with LOCC restriction as a special case. To derive the asymptotic LOCC conversion rate, we consider two kinds of approximate conversions, deterministic conversion and majorization conversion, for probability distributions, and solve their asymptotic conversion rates up to the second order. Then, the asymptotic LOCC conversion rate is obtained via the natural relation between the LOCC conversion and the majorization conversion. To derive these asymptotic rates, we introduce new probability distributions named Rayleigh-normal distributions. The family of Rayleigh-normal distributions includes a Rayleigh distribution and coincides with the standard normal distribution in the limit case, and the optimal conversion rate is represented by Rayleigh-normal distribution in a unified manner.

id: 1306.4191
title: Precision-guaranteed quantum tomography
authors: Takanori Sugiyama, Peter S. Turner, Mio Murao
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, An analysis of a constrained least squares estimator is added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 160406 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4191
abstract: Quantum state tomography is the standard tool in current experiments for verifying that a state prepared in the lab is close to an ideal target state, but up to now there were no rigorous methods for evaluating the precision of the state preparation in tomographic experiments. We propose a new estimator for quantum state tomography, and prove that the (always physical) estimates will be close to the true prepared state with high probability. We derive an explicit formula for evaluating how high the probability is for an arbitrary finite-dimensional system and explicitly give the one- and two-qubit cases as examples. This formula applies for any informationally complete sets of measurements, arbitrary finite number of data sets, and general loss functions including the infidelity, the Hilbert-Schmidt, and the trace distances. Using the formula, we can evaluate not only the difference between the estimated and prepared states, but also the difference between the prepared and target states. This is the first result directly applicable to the problem of evaluating the precision of estimation and preparation in quantum tomographic experiments.

id: 1306.4275
title: Quantum signalling in cavity QED
authors: Robert H. Jonsson, Eduardo Martin-Martinez, Achim Kempf
comments: RevTex 4.1. 15 pages, 7 figures. V2: extended version with extra detail. Some minor additional changes to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022330 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4275
abstract: We consider quantum signalling between two-level quantum systems in a cavity, in the pertubative regime of the earliest possible arrival times of the signal. We present two main results: First we find that, perhaps surprisingly, the analogue of amplitude modulated signalling (Alice using her energy eigenstates |g>, |e>, as in the Fermi problem) is generally sub-optimal for communication. Namely, e.g., phase modulated signalling (Alice using, e.g., |+>,|e>-states) overcomes the quantum noise already at a lower order in perturbation theory. Second, we study the effect of mode truncations that are commonly used in cavity QED on the modelling of the communication between two-level atoms. We show that, on general grounds, namely for causality to be preserved, the UV cutoff must scale at least polynomially with the desired accuracy of the predictions.

id: 1306.4306
title: Ballistic spreading of entanglement in a diffusive nonintegrable system
authors: Hyungwon Kim, David A. Huse
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures. Published version. Supplementary material added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 127205 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4306
abstract: We study the time evolution of the entanglement entropy of a one-dimensional nonintegrable spin chain, starting from random nonentangled initial pure states. We use exact diagonalization of a nonintegrable quantum Ising chain with transverse and longitudinal fields to obtain the exact quantum dynamics. We show that the entanglement entropy increases linearly with time before finite-size saturation begins, demonstrating a ballistic spreading of the entanglement, while the energy transport in the same system is diffusive. Thus we explicitly demonstrate that the spreading of entanglement is much faster than the energy diffusion in this nonintegrable system.

id: 1306.4352
title: An improved Landauer Principle with finite-size corrections
authors: David Reeb, Michael M. Wolf
comments: v2: 33 pages, 3 figures, minor changes and additions, references updated; v3: published version, title changed, 23+11 pages, 3 figures, some sections and appendices reordered, many minor changes, results unchanged
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 103011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4352
abstract: Landauer's Principle relates entropy decrease and heat dissipation during logically irreversible processes. Most theoretical justifications of Landauer's Principle either use thermodynamic reasoning or rely on specific models based on arguable assumptions. Here, we aim at a general and minimal setup to formulate Landauer's Principle in precise terms. We provide a simple and rigorous proof of an improved version of the Principle, which is formulated in terms of an equality rather than an inequality. The proof is based on quantum statistical mechanics concepts rather than on thermodynamic argumentation. From this equality version, we obtain explicit improvements of Landauer's bound that depend on the effective size of the thermal reservoir and reduce to Landauer's bound only for infinite-sized reservoirs.

id: 1306.4364
title: Discussion of the adiabatic hypothesis in control schemes using exceptional points
authors: Arnaud Leclerc, Georges Jolicard, John P. Killingbeck
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 145503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4364
abstract: We present calculations for the action of laser pulses on vibrational transfer within the H2+ and Na2 molecules in the presence of dissipation due to photodissociation of the molecule. The laser fields perform closed loops surrounding exceptional points in the laser parameter plane of intensity and wavelength. In principle the process should produce controlled vibrational transfers due to an adiabatic flip of the dressed eigenstates. We directly solve the Schr\"odinger equation with the complete time-dependent field instead of using the adiabatic Floquet formalism which initially suggested the design of the laser pulses. Results given by wavepacket propagations disagree with predictions obtained using the adiabatic hypothesis. Thus we show that there are large non-adiabatic exchanges and that the dissipative character of the dynamics renders the adiabatic flip very difficult to obtain. Using much longer durations than expected from previous studies, the adiabatic flip is only obtained for the Na2 molecule and with strong dissociation.

id: 1306.4396
title: High-Effciency Cross-Phase Modulation in a Gas-Filled Waveguide
authors: C. Perrella, P. S. Light, J. D. Anstie, F. Benabid, T. M. Stace, A. G. White, A. N. Luiten
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4396
abstract: Strong cross-Kerr non-linearities have been long sought after for quantum information applications. Recent work has shown that they are intrinsically unreliable in travelling wave configurations: cavity configurations avoid this, but require knowledge of both the non-linearity and the loss. Here we present a detailed systematic study of cross-phase modulation, and absorption, in a rubidium vapour confined within a hollow-core photonic crystal fibre. Using a two-photon transition, we observe phase modulations of up to $\pi$rad with a signal power of 25$\mu$W, corresponding to a non-linear Kerr coefficient, $n_2$, of $0.8 \times 10^{-6}$ cm$^2$/W, or $1.3 \times 10^{-6}$ rad per photon.

id: 1306.4413
title: Experimental unconditionally secure bit commitment
authors: Yang Liu, Yuan Cao, Marcos Curty, Sheng-Kai Liao, Jian Wang, Ke Cui, Yu-Huai Li, Ze-Hong Lin, Qi-Chao Sun, Dong-Dong Li, Hong-Fei Zhang, Yong Zhao, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Qiang Zhang, Adan Cabello, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 010504 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4413
abstract: Bit commitment is a fundamental cryptographic task that guarantees a secure commitment between two mutually mistrustful parties and is a building block for many cryptographic primitives, including coin tossing, zero-knowledge proofs, oblivious transfer and secure two-party computation. Unconditionally secure bit commitment was thought to be impossible until recent theoretical protocols that combine quantum mechanics and relativity were shown to elude previous impossibility proofs. Here we implement such a bit commitment protocol. In the experiment, the committer performs quantum measurements using two quantum key distribution systems and the results are transmitted via free-space optical communication to two agents separated with more than 20 km. The security of the protocol relies on the properties of quantum information and relativity theory. We show that, in each run of the experiment, a bit is successfully committed with less than 5.68*10^-2 cheating probability. Our result demonstrates unconditionally secure bit commitment and the experimental feasibility of relativistic quantum communication.

id: 1306.4451
title: Purifying entanglement of noisy two-qubit states via entanglement swapping
authors: Wei Song, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, any comments are welcome
journal: Physical Review A 89, 014303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4451
abstract: Two qubits in pure entangled states going through separate paths and interacting with their own individual environments will gradually lose their entanglement. Here we show that the entanglement change of a two-qubit state due to amplitude damping noises can be recovered by entanglement swapping. Some initial states can be asymptotically purified into maximally entangled states by iteratively using our protocol.

id: 1306.4474
title: Discriminating quantum field theories in curved spacetime
authors: Jason Doukas, Gerardo Adesso, Stefano Pirandola, Andrzej Dragan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4474
abstract: We initiate a program of using quantum channel discrimination to test physical theories. In particular, we focus on quantum field theories in curved spacetimes. We use the example of the Unruh effect to illustrate the principle of this approach, discriminating it against an existing alternative theory that does not predict thermal particles. We find that the usual strategy of counting particles in the vacuum can be improved on, thereby enhancing the discrimination. Coherent state probes, which are practical and feasible, give exponential improvement in the discrimination of the Unruh channel and come very close to optimal. These results are expected to be relevant to upcoming experimental tests of quantum field theory in curved spacetimes in analogue systems.

id: 1306.4480
title: Quantum-classical hybrid dynamics - a summary
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: 7 pages; summarizing invited talks at 6th International Workshop DICE2012, Castello Pasquini/Castiglioncello (Tuscany), September 17-21, 2012 and at Marcus Wallenberg Symposium "Quantum Theory: Advances and Problems - QTAP", Linnaeus University, Vaxjoe (Sweden) June 10-13, 2013
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 442 (2013) 012007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4480
abstract: A summary of a recently proposed description of quantum-classical hybrids is presented, which concerns quantum and classical degrees of freedom of a composite object that interact directly with each other. This is based on notions of classical Hamiltonian mechanics suitably extended to quantum mechanics.

id: 1306.4506
title: General model for a entanglement-enhanced composed quantum game on a two-dimensional lattice
authors: Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak, ?ukasz Pawela, Jan S?adkowski
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Fluctuation and Noise Letters, Vol. 13, No. 2 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4506
abstract: We introduce a method of analyzing entanglement enhanced quantum games on regular lattices of agents. Our method is valid for setups with periodic and non-periodic boundary conditions. To demonstrate our approach we study two different types games, namely the prisoner's dilemma game and a cooperative Parrondo's game. In both cases we obtain results showing, that entanglement is a crucial resource necessary for the agents to achieve positive capital gain.

id: 1306.4532
title: Verifying the Steane code with Quantomatic
authors: Ross Duncan, Maxime Lucas
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2013, arXiv:1412.7917
journal: EPTCS 171, 2014, pp. 33-49
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4532
abstract: In this paper we give a partially mechanized proof of the correctness of Steane's 7-qubit error correcting code, using the tool Quantomatic. To the best of our knowledge, this represents the largest and most complicated verification task yet carried out using Quantomatic.

id: 1306.4576
title: Quantum Discord for Generalized Bloch Sphere States
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, N. Karimi, H. Zahir
comments: 26 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1107.5174 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4576
abstract: In this study for particular states of bipartite quantum system in 2n?2m dimensional Hilbert space state, similar to m or n-qubit density matrices represented in Bloch sphere we call them generalized Bloch sphere states(GBSS), we give an e?cient optimization procedure so that analytic evaluation of quantum discord can be performed. Using this optimization procedure, we ?nd an exact analytical formula for the optimum positive operator valued measure (POVM) that maximize the measure of the classical correlation for these states. The presented optimization procedure also is used to show that for any concave entropy function the same POVMs are su?cient for quantum discord of mentioned states. Furthermore, We show that such optimization procedure can be used to calculate the geometric measure of quantum discord (GMQD) and then an explicit formula for GMQD is given. Finally, a complete geometric view is presented for quantum discord of GBSS. Keywords: Quantum Discord, Generalized Bloch Sphere States, Dirac matrices, Bipartite Quantum System. PACs Index: 03.67.-a, 03.65.Ta, 03.65.Ud

id: 1306.4613
title: Effects of gauge theory based number scaling on geometry
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures; to appear in proceedings, Quantum information and computation XI, SPIE conference proceedings, Vol. 8749, May 1-3, Baltimore, Md
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4613
abstract: Effects of local availability of mathematics (LAM) and space time dependent number scaling on physics and, especially, geometry are described. LAM assumes separate mathematical systems as structures at each space time point. Extension of gauge theories to include freedom of choice of scaling for number structures, and other structures based on numbers, results in a space time dependent scaling factor based on a scalar boson field. Scaling has no effect on comparison of experimental results with one another or with theory computations. With LAM all theory expressions are elements of mathematics at some reference point. Changing the reference point introduces (external) scaling. Theory expressions with integrals or derivatives over space or time include scaling factors (internal scaling) that cannot be removed by reference point change. Line elements and path lengths, as integrals over space and/or time, show the effect of scaling on geometry. In one example, the scaling factor goes to 0 as the time goes to 0, the big bang time. All path lengths, and values of physical quantities, are crushed to 0 as $t$ goes to 0. Other examples have spherically symmetric scaling factors about some point, $x.$ In one type, a black scaling hole, the scaling factor goes to infinity as the distance, $d$, between any point $y$ and $x$ goes to 0. For scaling white holes, the scaling factor goes to 0 as $d$ goes to 0. For black scaling holes, path lengths from a reference point, $z$, to $y$ become infinite as $y$ approaches $x.$ For white holes, path lengths approach a value much less than the unscaled distance from $z$ to $x.$

id: 1306.4617
title: Cavity cooling of free silicon nanoparticles in high-vacuum
authors: Peter Asenbaum, Stefan Kuhn, Stefan Nimmrichter, Ugur Sezer, Markus Arndt
comments: 
journal: Nat. Commun. 4:2743 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4617
abstract: Laser cooling has given a boost to atomic physics throughout the last thirty years since it allows one to prepare atoms in motional states which can only be described by quantum mechanics. Most methods, such as Doppler cooling, polarization gradient cooling or sub-recoil laser cooling rely, however, on a near-resonant and cyclic coupling between laser light and well-defined internal states. Although this feat has recently even been achieved for diatomic molecules, it is very hard for mesoscopic particles. It has been proposed that an external cavity may compensate for the lack of internal cycling transitions in dielectric objects and it may thus provide assistance in the cooling of their centre of mass state. Here, we demonstrate cavity cooling of the transverse kinetic energy of silicon nanoparticles propagating in genuine high-vacuum (< 10^8 mbar). We create and launch them with longitudinal velocities even down to v < 1 m/s using laser induced thermomechanical stress on a pristine silicon wafer. The interaction with the light of a high-finesse infrared cavity reduces their transverse kinetic energy by more than a factor of 30. This is an important step towards new tests of recent proposals to explore the still speculative non-linearities of quantum mechanics with objects in the mass range between 10^7 and 10^10 amu.

id: 1306.4646
title: Yet Another Snapshot of Foundational Attitudes Toward Quantum Mechanics
authors: Travis Norsen, Sarah Nelson
comments: 11 pages, 16 bar graphs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4646
abstract: A survey probing respondents' views on various foundational issues in quantum mechanics was recently created by Schlosshauer, Kofler, and Zeilinger [arXiv:1301.1069] and then given to 33 participants at a quantum foundations conference. Here we report the results of giving this same survey to the attendees at another recent quantum foundations conference. While it is rather difficult to conclude anything of scientific significance from the poll, the results do strongly suggest several interesting cultural facts -- for example, that there exist, within the broad field of "quantum foundations", sub-communities with quite different views, and that (relatedly) there is probably even significantly more controversy about several fundamental issues than the already-significant amount revealed in the earlier poll.

id: 1306.4683
title: Conclusive Exclusion of Quantum States
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Rahul Jain, Jonathan Oppenheim, Christopher Perry
comments: 8+11 pages. Version 2 includes a new result in Section V providing a lower bound on the probability of error in an exclusion task. Additional references and clarifications based on referee comments have also been incorporated. Version 3 acknowledges funding sources
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022336 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4683
abstract: In the task of quantum state exclusion we consider a quantum system, prepared in a state chosen from a known set. The aim is to perform a measurement on the system which can conclusively rule that a subset of the possible preparation procedures can not have taken place. We ask what conditions the set of states must obey in order for this to be possible and how well we can complete the task when it is not. The task of quantum state discrimination forms a subclass of this set of problems. Within this paper we formulate the general problem as a Semidefinite Program (SDP), enabling us to derive sufficient and necessary conditions for a measurement to be optimal. Furthermore, we obtain a necessary condition on the set of states for exclusion to be achievable with certainty and give a construction for a lower bound on the probability of error. This task of conclusively excluding states has gained importance in the context of the foundations of quantum mechanics due to a result of Pusey, Barrett and Rudolph (PBR). Motivated by this, we use our SDP to derive a bound on how well a class of hidden variable models can perform at a particular task, proving an analogue of Tsirelson's bound for the PBR experiment and the optimality of a measurement given by PBR in the process. We also introduce variations of conclusive exclusion, including unambiguous state exclusion, and state exclusion with worst case error.

id: 1306.4737
title: Optically controlled phase gate and teleportation of a controlled-NOT gate for spin qubits in quantum dot-microcavity coupled system
authors: Hong-Fu Wang, Ai-Dong Zhu, Shou Zhang, Kyu-Hwang Yeon
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062337 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4737
abstract: Assisted with linear optical manipulation, single photon, entangled photon pairs, photon measurement, and classical communication, a scheme for two-spin qubits phase gate and teleportation of a CNOT gate between two electron spins from acting on local qubits to acting on remote qubits using quantum dots in optical microcavities is proposed. The scheme is based on spin selective photon reflection from the cavity and is achieved in a deterministic way by the sequential detection of photons and the single-qubit rotations of a single electron spin in a self-assembled GaAs/InAs quantum dot. The feasibility of the scheme is assessed showing that high average fidelities of the gates are achievable in the weak-coupling regime when the side leakage and cavity loss are low. The scheme opens promising perspectives for long-distance quantum communication, distributed quantum computation, and constructing remote quantum information processing networks.

id: 1306.4767
title: Weak value expansion of quantum operators and its application in stochastic matrices
authors: Taksu Cheon, Sergey Poghosyan
comments: 8 pages ReVTeX with 4 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4767
abstract: It is shown that any Hermitian operator can be expanded in terms of a set of operators formed from biorthogonal basis, and the expansion coefficients are given as products of weight functions and weak values, shedding a new light on the physical interpretation of the weak value. The utility of our approach is showcased with examples of spin one-half and spin one systems, where irreversible subset of stochastic matrices describing projective measurement on a mixed state is identified.

id: 1306.4768
title: Phase estimation with weak measurement using a white light source
authors: Xiao-Ye Xu, Yaron Kedem, Kai Sun, Lev Vaidman, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4768
abstract: We report results of a high precision phase estimation based on a weak measurements scheme using commercial light-emitting diode. The method is based on a measurement of the imaginary part of the weak value of a polarization operator. The imaginary part of the weak value appeared due to the measurement interaction itself. The sensitivity of our method is equivalent to resolving light pulses of order of attosecond and it is robust against chromatic dispersion.

id: 1306.4787
title: Route from spontaneous decay to complex multimode dynamics in cavity QED
authors: Dmitry O. Krimer, Matthias Liertzer, Stefan Rotter, Hakan E. Tureci
comments: 9 pages & 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 033820 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4787
abstract: We study the non-Markovian quantum dynamics of an emitter inside an open multimode cavity, focusing on the case where the emitter is resonant with high-frequency cavity modes. Based on a Green's function technique suited for open photonic structures, we study the crossovers between three distinct regimes as the coupling strength is gradually increased: (i) overdamped decay with a time scale given by the Purcell modified decay rate, (ii) underdamped oscillations with a time scale given by the effective vacuum Rabi frequency, and (iii) pulsed revivals. The final multimode strong coupling regime (iii) gives rise to quantum revivals of the atomic inversion on a time scale associated with the cavity round-trip time. We show that the crucial parameter to capture the crossovers between these regimes is the nonlinear Lamb shift, accounted for exactly in our formalism.

id: 1306.4801
title: Experimental bit commitment based on quantum communication and special relativity
authors: T. Lunghi, J. Kaniewski, F. Bussieres, R. Houlmann, M. Tomamichel, A. Kent, N. Gisin, S. Wehner, H. Zbinden
comments: 16 pages, revtex, Accepted at QCRYPT 2013
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 180504 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4801
abstract: Bit commitment is a fundamental cryptographic primitive in which Bob wishes to commit a secret bit to Alice. Perfectly secure bit commitment has been proven impossible through asynchronous exchange of classical and quantum information. Perfect security is however possible by restraining the exchange of classical and quantum information to suitably chosen relativistic constraints. This requires Alice (and Bob) to split into two remote agents performing space-like separated classical communication, and in one agent exchanging quantum bits with the other party. The duration of the commitment is given by the distance between the two remote agents. The original protocol requires the quantum communication to happen at a precise location and time with respect to the classical communication. We show how the protocol can be modified to relax this constraint such that the quantum part of the protocol can be performed at any time before the actual commitment, making it much more practical. Finally, we present an experimental demonstration of this protocol realized with a commercial quantum key distribution system and with synchronized classical agents located in Geneva and Singapore, yielding a commitment time of 15 ms. Our work includes a complete security analysis, accounting for experimental imperfections (multi-photon emission, transmission loss, detector inefficiency and dark counts) and finite statistics.

id: 1306.4853
title: Relativistic Quantum Communication
authors: Dominic Hosler
comments: PhD Thesis, at University of Sheffield
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4853
abstract: In this Ph.D. thesis, I investigate the communication abilities of non-inertial observers and the precision to which they can measure parametrized states. I introduce relativistic quantum field theory with field quantisation, and the definition and transformations of mode functions in Minkowski, Schwarzschild and Rindler spaces. I introduce information theory by discussing the nature of information, defining the entropic information measures, and highlighting the differences between classical and quantum information. I review the field of relativistic quantum information. We investigate the communication abilities of an inertial observer to a relativistic observer hovering above a Schwarzschild black hole, using the Rindler approximation. We compare both classical communication and quantum entanglement generation of the state merging protocol, for both the single and dual rail encodings. We find that while classical communication remains finite right up to the horizon, the quantum entanglement generation tends to zero. We investigate the observers' abilities to precisely measure the parameter of a state that is communicated between Alice and Rob. This parameter was encoded to either the amplitudes of a single excitation state or the phase of a NOON state. With NOON states the dual rail encoding provided greater precision, which is different to the results for the other situations. The precision was maximum for a particular number of excitations in the NOON state. We calculated the bipartite communication for Alice-Rob and Alice-AntiRob beyond the single mode approximation. Rob and AntiRob are causally disconnected counter-accelerating observers. We found that Alice must choose in advance with whom, Rob or AntiRob she wants to create entanglement using a particular setup. She could communicate classically to both.

id: 1306.4861
title: Optimal parameter estimation with a fixed rate of abstention
authors: B. Gendra, E. Ronco-Bonvehi, J. Calsamiglia, R. Mu?oz-Tapia, E. Bagan
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012128 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4861
abstract: The problems of optimally estimating a phase, a direction, and the orientation of a Cartesian frame (or trihedron) with general pure states are addressed. Special emphasis is put on estimation schemes that allow for inconclusive answers or abstention. It is shown that such schemes enable drastic improvements, up to the extent of attaining the Heisenberg limit in some cases, and the required amount of abstention is quantified. A general mathematical framework to deal with the asymptotic limit of many qubits or large angular momentum is introduced and used to obtain analytical results for all the relevant cases under consideration. Parameter estimation with abstention is also formulated as a semidefinite programming problem, for which very efficient numerical optimization techniques exist.

id: 1306.4893
title: Electromagnetically induced vorticity control in a quantum fluid velocity field
authors: T. E. Raptis
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4893
abstract: A new method is reported by which it is possible to induce certain flux configurations of desired characteristics via electromagnetic means into the overall quantum probability current of a many-body system in the Madelung hydrodynamic picture. Some indicative applications are also considered with emphasis in HTC and gravitational wave research.

id: 1306.4896
title: Two-level system with broken inversion symmetry coupled to a quantum harmonic oscillator
authors: H.K. Avetissian, G.F. Mkrtchian
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4896
abstract: We study the generalized Jaynes-Cummings model of quantum optics at the inversion-symmetry-breaking and in the ultrastrong coupling regime. With the help of a generalized multiphoton rotating-wave approximation, we study the stationary solutions of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. It is shown that the problem is reduced to resonant interaction of two position-displaced harmonic oscillators. Explicit expressions for the eigenstates and eigenvalues of generalized Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian are presented. We exemplify our physical model with analytical and numerical considerations regarding collapse and revivals of the initial population of a two-level system and photon distribution function at the direct multiphoton resonant coupling.

id: 1306.4903
title: Effects of crystal length on the angular spectrum of spontaneous parametric downconversion photon pairs
authors: Roberto Ramirez-Alarcon, Hector Cruz-Ramirez, Alfred B. U'Ren
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Laser Physics 23 055204 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4903
abstract: We present a theoretical and experimental analysis of the joint effects of the transverse electric field distribution and of the nonlinear crystal characteristics on the properties of photon pairs generated by spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC). While it is known that for a sufficiently short crystal the pump electric field distribution fully determines the joint signal-idler properties, for longer crystals the nonlinear crystal properties also play an important role. In this paper we present experimental measurements of the angular spectrum (AS) and of the conditional angular spectrum (CAS) of photon pairs produced by spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC), carried out through spatially-resolved photon counting. In our experiment we control whether or not the source operates in the short-crystal regime through the degree of pump focusing, and explicitly show how the AS and CAS measurements differ in these two regimes. Our theory provides an understanding of the boundary between these two regimes and also predicts the corresponding differing behaviors.

id: 1306.4907
title: Inferential vs. Dynamical Conceptions of Physics
authors: David Wallace
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4907
abstract: I contrast two possible attitudes towards a given branch of physics: as inferential (i.e., as concerned with an agent's ability to make predictions given finite information), and as dynamical (i.e., as concerned with the dynamical equations governing particular degrees of freedom). I contrast these attitudes in classical statistical mechanics, in quantum mechanics, and in quantum statistical mechanics; in this last case, I argue that the quantum-mechanical and statistical-mechanical aspects of the question become inseparable. Along the way various foundational issues in statistical and quantum physics are (hopefully!) illuminated.

id: 1306.4909
title: Observation of non-diffracting behavior at the single-photon level
authors: Hector Cruz-Ramirez, Roberto Ramirez-Alarcon, Francisco J. Morelos, Pedro A. Quinto-Su, Julio C. Gutierrez-Vega, Alfred B. U'Ren
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures; in v2 reference 16 has been updated
journal: Optics Express 20 29761 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4909
abstract: We demonstrate the generation of non-diffracting heralded single photons, i.e. which are characterized by a single-photon transverse intensity distribution which remains essentially unchanged over a significant propagation distance. For this purpose we have relied on the process of spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC) for the generation of signal and idler photon pairs, where our SPDC crystal is pumped by a Bessel-Gauss (BG) beam. Our experiment shows that the well-understood non-diffracting behavior of a BG beam may be directly mapped to the signal-mode, single photons heralded by the detection of a single idler photon. In our experiment, the heralded single photon is thus arranged to be non-diffracting without the need for projecting its single-photon transverse amplitude, post-generation, in any manner.

id: 1306.4938
title: Can communication power of separable correlations exceed that of entanglement resource?
authors: Pawe? Horodecki, Jan Tuziemski, Pawe? Mazurek, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: 4+5 pages, improved and published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 140507 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4938
abstract: The scenario of remote state preparation with shared correlated quantum state and one bit of forward communication [B. Dakic et al. Nature Physics 8, 666-670 (2012)] is considered. The transmission efficiency is examined by considering general encoding and decoding strategies. The importance of use of linear fidelity is recognized. It is shown that separable states cannot exceed the efficiency of entangled states in this protocol. It is proven however that such a surprising phenomena may naturally occur when the decoding agent has limited resources in the sense that either (i) has no information about the coordinates in the sender plane being in question or (ii) is forced to use bistochastic operations only which may be imposed by physically inconvenient local thermodynamical conditions.

id: 1306.5039
title: On Quantum Algorithm for Binary Search and Its Computational Complexity
authors: S.Iriyama, M.Ohya, I.V.Volovich
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5039
abstract: A new quantum algorithm for a search problem and its computational complexity are discussed. It is shown in the search problem containing 2^n objects that our algorithm runs in polynomial time.

id: 1306.5057
title: Black Hole Firewalls Require Huge Energy of Measurement
authors: Masahiro Hotta, Jiro Matsumoto, Ken Funo
comments: 36 pages, 12 fugures. To be published in Physical Review D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5057
abstract: The unitary moving mirror model is one of the best quantum systems for checking the reasoning of the original firewall paradox of AMPS in quantum black holes. Though the late-time part of radiations emitted from the mirror is fully entangled with the early-part, no firewall exists with a deadly, huge average energy flux in this model. This is because high-energy entanglement structure of the discretized systems in almost maximally entangled states is modified so as to yield the correct description of low-energy effective field theory. Furthermore, the strong subadditivity paradox of firewalls is resolved using non-locality of general one-particle states and zero-point fluctuation entanglement. Due to the Reeh-Schlieder theorem in quantum field theory, another firewall paradox is inevitably raised with quantum remote measurements in the model. We resolve this paradox from the viewpoint of the energy cost of measurements. No firewall appears, as long as the energy for the measurement is much smaller than the ultraviolet cutoff scale.

id: 1306.5065
title: Quantum Metrology in Correlated Environments
authors: Dong Xie, An Min Wang
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A Vol. 378 (2014) 2079
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5065
abstract: We analytically obtain the precision bounds of frequency measurements in correlated Markovian and non-Markovian environments by using a variational approach. It is verified that in standard Ramsey spectroscopy setup, the metrological equivalence of product and maximally entangled states persists in maximally correlated Markovian and non-Markovian environments. We find that the optimal measurement can achieve a much higher resolution than standard Ramsey spectroscopy in the correlated environments. When the number of particles in the maximally entangled states is even, the precision bound decreases with interrogation time; and when the number is odd, the precision bound is independent of interrogation time, both in correlated Markovian and general non-Markovian environments. In addition, the opposite case can appear in some special non-Markovian environments.

id: 1306.5136
title: Control excitation and coherent transfer in a dimer
authors: Hong-rong Li, Pei Zhang, Yingjun Liu, Fu-li Li, Shi-yao Zhu
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 87, 053831 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5136
abstract: In this article, the processes of energy absorption and coherent transfer in a dimer is studied. The dimer includes two two-level pigments --- donor and acceptor, where donor is assumed being excited by a control pulse in the time domain. We investigate the dynamics of probability that the acceptor is in the excited state and the total efficiency of energy absorption and transfer under different temporal shape of control pulse. Quantum concurrence of the dimer is also discussed.

id: 1306.5173
title: On the Hardnesses of Several Quantum Decoding Problems
authors: Kao-Yueh Kuo, Chung-Chin Lu
comments: There are six pages in this paper. Part of this paper was presented in the 2012 International Symposium on Information Theory and its Applications (ISITA 2012), Hawaii, USA, October 28--31, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5173
abstract: We classify the time complexities of three important decoding problems for quantum stabilizer codes. First, regardless of the channel model, quantum bounded distance decoding is shown to be NP-hard, like what Berlekamp, McEliece and Tilborg did for classical binary linear codes in 1978. Then over the depolarizing channel, the decoding problems for finding a most likely error and for minimizing the decoding error probability are also shown to be NP-hard. Our results indicate that finding a polynomial-time decoding algorithm for general stabilizer codes may be impossible, but this, on the other hand, strengthens the foundation of quantum code-based cryptography.

id: 1306.5192
title: State Decoding in Multi-Stage Cryptography Protocols
authors: Sindhu Chitikela
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5192
abstract: This paper presents a practical method of quantum tomography for decoding the state of photons in a multistage cryptography protocol. This method works if the polarization angles are defined on a fixed plane, as is assumed in several quantum cryptography protocols. We show if there are 2m polarization angles in a fixed plane, we need m number of filters and m2 number of photons through each filter.

id: 1306.5205
title: On Filtering Schemes in the Quantum-Classical Liouville Approach to Non-adiabatic Dynamics
authors: Daniel Uken, Alessandro Sergi, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5205
abstract: We study a number of filtering schemes for the reduction of the statistical error in non-adiabatic calculations by means of the quantum-classical Liouville equation. In particular, we focus on a scheme based on setting a threshold value on the sampling weights, so that when the threshold is overcome the value of the weight is reset, and on another approach which prunes the ensemble of the allowed non-adiabatic transitions according to a generalised sampling probability. Both methods have advantages and drawbacks, however their combination drastically improves the performance of an algorithm known as the Sequential Short Time Step Propagation [D. MacKernan et al., J. Phys: Condens. Matter {\bf 14} 9069 (2002)], which is derived from a simple first order expansion of the quantum-classical propagator. Such an algorithm together with the combined filtering procedures produce results that compare very well with those obtained by means of numerically "exact" quantum calculations for the spin-boson model, even for intermediate and strong coupling regimes.

id: 1306.5211
title: Contradictory entropic joint uncertainty relations for complementary observables in two-level systems
authors: Alfredo Luis
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5211
abstract: We show that different entropic measures of fluctuations lead to contradictory uncertainty relations for two complementary observables. We apply Tsallis and R\'{e}nyi entropies to the joint distribution emerging from a noisy simultaneous measurement of both observables as well as to the product of their individual statistics, either intrinsic or of operational origin.

id: 1306.5251
title: Time as a dynamical variable in quantum decay
authors: Rafael de la Madrid
comments: 
journal: Nucl. Phys. A 913 (2013) 217-235
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5251
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of quantum decay in which the survival probability is replaced by a decay rate that is equal to the absolute value squared of the wave function in the time representation. The wave function in the time representation is simply the Fourier transform of the wave function in the energy representation, and it is also the probability amplitude generated by the Positive Operator Valued Measure of a time operator. The present analysis endows time with a dynamical character in quantum decay, and it is applicable only when the unstable system is monitored continuously while it decays. When the analysis is applied to the Gamow state, one recovers the exponential decay law. The analysis allows us to interpret the oscillations in the decay rate of the GSI anomaly, of neutral mesons, and of fluorescence quantum beats as the result of the interference of two resonances in the time representation. In addition, the analysis allows us to show that the time of flight of a resonance coincides with its lifetime.

id: 1306.5295
title: Reference frame agreement in quantum networks
authors: Tanvirul Islam, Lo?ck Magnin, Brandon Sorg, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 10 pages, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5295
abstract: In order to communicate information in a quantum network effectively, all network nodes should share a common reference frame. Here, we propose to study how well m nodes in a quantum network can establish a common reference frame from scratch, even though t of them may be arbitrarily faulty. We present a protocol that allows all correctly functioning nodes to agree on a common reference frame as long as not more than t < m/3 nodes are faulty. Our protocol furthermore has the appealing property that it allows any existing two-party protocol for reference frame agreement to be lifted to a protocol for a quantum network.

id: 1306.5309
title: Comment on "A classical model for asymmetric sidebands in cavity optomechanical measurements"
authors: Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Oskar Painter
comments: 3 pages, A comment on manuscript by Tsang [arXiv:1306.2699]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5309
abstract: We respond to a recent manuscript by Tsang [arXiv:1306.2699], on whether the measurement presented in Safavi-Naeini et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 033602 (2012)] can be explained "without reference to quantum mechanics". We show that the fully classical analysis provided by Tsang, and previously by Safavi-Naeini et al. [New J. Phys. 15, 035007 (2013)], has been ruled out by our published data. In addition, we discuss the role of the mathematical formulation used on the interpretation of the asymmetry effect, as has previously been considered by Khalili et al. [Phys. Rev. A 86, 033840 (2012)].

id: 1306.5330
title: Tripartite entangled pure states are tripartite nonlocal
authors: Sixia Yu, C.H. Oh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5330
abstract: Nonlocal correlations as revealed by the violations to Bell inequalities are incompatible with local models without any nonlocal correlations. However some tripartite entangled states, e.g., symmetric pure states, exhibit a stronger nonlocality even incompatible with hybrid local/nonlocal models allowing nonlocal correlations between any two parties. Here we propose a three-particle Hardy-type test without inequality, as illustrated by a gedanken experiment, that is failed by all non-signaling local models while is passed by all tripartite entangled asymmetric pure states. Our result implies that every tripartite entangled state, regardless of the dimensions of the underlying Hilbert spaces, passes a Hardy-type test and therefore is genuine tripartite nonlocal. Maximal success probability and a generalization to multipartite cases of our test are also presented.

id: 1306.5357
title: Comment on "A short impossibility proof of quantum bit commitment"
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5357
abstract: In a recent letter (Phys. Lett. A 377 (2013) 1076, arXiv:0905.3801), the authors presented an impossibility proof of quantum bit commitment, which attempted to cover all possible protocols that involve both quantum and classical information. Here we show that there are many errors in the proof, thus it fails to exhaust all conceivable protocols.

id: 1306.5406
title: One-Sided Error QMA with Shared EPR Pairs -- A Simpler Proof
authors: Attila Pereszl¨¦nyi
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5406
abstract: We give a simpler proof of one of the results of Kobayashi, Le Gall, and Nishimura [arXiv:1210.1290v2], which shows that any QMA protocol can be converted to a one-sided error protocol, in which Arthur and Merlin initially share a constant number of EPR pairs and then Merlin sends his proof to Arthur. Our protocol is similar but somewhat simpler than the original. Our main contribution is a simpler and more direct analysis of the soundness property that uses well-known results in quantum information such as properties of the trace distance and the fidelity, and the quantum de Finetti theorem.

id: 1306.5423
title: Suppressing phase decoherence of a single atom qubit with CPMG sequence
authors: Shi Yu, Peng Xu, Xiaodong He, Min Liu, Jin Wang, Mingsheng Zhan
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5423
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the strong suppression of dephasing of a qubit stored in a single \textsuperscript{87}Rb atom in an optical dipole trap by using Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill(CPMG) pulse sequences. Regarded as a repetition of spin echo, CPMG sequence is an optimal choice for suppressing both inhomogeneous and homogeneous phase decoherence mechanisms. In the trap with 830 nm wavelength and 0.7 mK potential depth, the spin relaxation time of single atoms is showed to be 830.8 ms. We obtain the reversible inhomogeneous dephasing time of $T_{2}^{\ast}$=1.4 ms. The homogeneous dephasing time is $T_{2}^{\prime}$ =102.7 ms in the spin echo process, by employing CPMG sequence with pulse number n = 6 the homogeneous dephasing is further suppressed by a factor of 3, and its corresponding coherence time is extended to $T_{2}^{\prime}$=304.5 ms.

id: 1306.5458
title: Atomic diffraction by light gratings with very short wavelengths
authors: Pedro Sancho
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2013) 67:114
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5458
abstract: Lasers with wavelengths of the order of the atomic size are becoming available. We explore the behavior of light-matter interactions in this emergent field by considering the atomic Kapitza-Dirac effect. We derive the diffraction patterns, which are in principle experimentally testable. From a fundamental point of view, our proposal provides an example of system where the periodicity of the diffraction grating is comparable to the size of the diffracted object.

id: 1306.5471
title: Quantum Structures: A View of the Quantum World
authors: Jasmina Jeknic-Dugic, Momir Arsenijevic, Miroljub Dugic
comments: 95 pages. Updated version with typos corrected. Preprint version of the published book
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5471
abstract: We offer a systematic account of decomposition of quantum systems into parts. Different decompositions (structures) are mutually linked via the proper linear canonical transformations. Different kinds of structures, as well as their relations, are considered. Emphasis is placed on mutually global and irreducible structures. Is there a privileged structure of the closed system? Is there a preferred (bipartite) structure of an open system? Are there any practical advantages of certain alternative structures of the system? Is there a simple dynamical relation for a pair of structures? The [necessarily partial] answers are rather intriguing. Relativity of quantum correlations (that include entanglement as well as the "one-way" and "two-way" discord) is carefully presented. Emphasis is placed on the "parallel occurrence of decoherence" in the quantum Brownian motion. The environment-selected preferred structure of an open composite system is presented for a pair of harmonic oscillators (or the field modes). A limitation of the Nakajima-Zwanzig projection method appears as a consequence of quantum correlations relativity. Hence, describing dynamics of an alternate open-system is a delicate task. Certain interpretational issues, which include "quantum reference frames" issue, are discussed. Some recent experiments are also discussed. To this end, the option that "there are no particles" on the most fundamental physical level naturally follows. Certain open questions and prospects for further research are highlighted.

id: 1306.5492
title: Solving the EPR paradox with pseudo-classical paths
authors: David H. Oaknin
comments: This paper develops the ideas presented in Phys.Rev.D.67.025010 and Phys.Rev.D.67.105016
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5492
abstract: We propose a novel interpretation of Quantum Mechanics, which can resolve the outstanding conflict between the principles of locality and realism and offers new insight on the so-called weak values of physical observables. The discussion is presented in the context of Bohm's system of two photons in their singlet polarization state in which the Einstein-Podolski-Rosen paradox is commonly addressed. It is shown that quantum states can be understood as statistical mixtures of non-interfering pseudo-classical paths in a {\it hidden} phase space, in a way that overcomes the implicit assumptions of Bell's theorem and reproduces all expected values and correlations. The polarization properties of the photons along these paths are gauge-dependent magnitudes, whose actual values get fixed only after a reference direction is set by the observer of either photon A or B. Furthermore, these values are not constrained to fulfill standard classical algebraic relationships. These {\it hidden} paths can be grouped into coarser ones consistent with particular post-selection conditions for a complete set of commuting observables and along which every physical observable gets on average its corresponding weak value. Obviously, different sets of commuting observables lead to different coarse statistical representations of the same quantum state. This interpretation follows from the observation that in the Heisenberg picture of a closed quantum system in state $|\Psi>$ every physical observable ${\cal O}(t)=e^{+i H t} {\cal O} e^{-i H t}$ can be represented by an operator $P_{o(t)}$ within a commutative algebra, such that ${\cal O}(t)|\Psi>=P_{o(t)}|\Psi>$. The formalism presented here may become a useful tool for performing numerical simulations of quantum systems.

id: 1306.5536
title: Is nonclassicality-breaking the same thing as entanglement-breaking?
authors: J. Solomon Ivan, Krishna Kumar Sabapathy, R. Simon
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5536
abstract: Nonclassicality and entanglement are notions fundamental to quantum information processes involving continuous variable systems. That these two notions are intimately related has been intuitively appreciated for quite some time. An aspect of considerable interest is the behaviour of these attributes of a state under the action of a noisy channel. Inspired by the notion of entanglement-breaking channels, we define the concept of nonclassicality-breaking channels in a natural manner. We show that the notion of nonclassicality-breaking is essentially equivalent---in a clearly defined sense of the phrase `essentially'---to the notion of entanglement-breaking, as far as bosonic Gaussian channels are concerned. This is notwithstanding the fact that the very notion of entanglement-breaking requires reference to a bipartite system, whereas the definition of nonclassicality-breaking makes no such reference. Our analysis rests on our classification of channels into nonclassicality-based, as against entanglement-based, types of canonical forms. Our result takes ones intuitive understanding of the close relationship between nonclassicality and entanglement a step closer.

id: 1306.5543
title: Control and manipulation of electromagentically induced transparency in a nonlinear optomechanical system with two movable mirrors
authors: S. Shahidani, M. H. Naderi, M. Soltanolkotabi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053813 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5543
abstract: We consider an optomechanical cavity made by two moving mirrors which contains a Kerr-down conversion nonlinear crystal. We show that the coherent oscillations of the two mechanical oscil- lators can lead to splitting in the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) resonance, and appearance of an absorption peak within the transparency window. In this configuration the coher- ent induced splitting of EIT is similar to driving a hyperfine transition in an atomic Lambda-type three-level system by a radio-frequency or microwave field. Also, we show that the presence of non- linearity provides an additional flexibility for adjusting the width of the transparency windows. The combination of an additional mechanical mode and the nonlinear crystal suggests new possibilities for adjusting the resonance frequency, the width and the spectral positions of the EIT windows as well as the enhancement of the absorption peak within the transparency window.

id: 1306.5551
title: Condensed Matter Applications of Entanglement Theory
authors: Norbert Schuch
comments: Lecture notes for the 44th IFF Spring School "Quantum Information Processing" in Juelich, 2013. 29 pages
journal: Quantum Information Processing. Lecture Notes of the 44th IFF Spring School 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5551
abstract: These are lecture notes from the 44th IFF Spring School "Quantum Information Processing" in Juelich, discussing applications of entanglement theory in condensed matter. The focus of the notes is on tensor network states, in particular Matrix Product States (MPS) and Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS), which provide an efficient description of many-body states based on their entanglement structure; both numerical and analytical aspects of tensor networks are being covered. The notes close with a brief introduction to quantum complexity, which allows to assess the limitations to our ability to simulate quantum many-body systems.

id: 1306.5557
title: Quantum Fluctuation Relations for Ensembles of Wave Functions
authors: Michele Campisi
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure. Added illustrative example in v2. Accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 115008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5557
abstract: New quantum fluctuation relations are presented. In contrast with the the standard approach, where the initial state of the driven system is described by the (micro)canonical density matrix, here we assume that it is described by a (micro)canonical distribution of wave functions, as originally proposed by Schr\"odinger. While the standard fluctuation relations are based on von Neumann measurement postulate, these new fluctuation relations do not involve any quantum collapse, but involve instead a notion of work as the change in expectation of the Hamiltonian.

id: 1306.5625
title: Single particle energy diffusion from relativistic spontaneous localization
authors: Daniel Bedingham
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5625
abstract: Energy diffusion due to spontaneous localization (SL) for a relativistically-fast moving particle is examined. SL is an alternative to standard quantum theory in which quantum state reduction is treated as a random physical process which is incorporated into the Schr\"odinger equation in an observer-independent way. These models make predictions in conflict with standard quantum theory one of which is non conservation of energy. On the basis of proposed relativistic extensions of SL it is argued that for a single localized particle, non-relativistic SL should remain valid in the rest frame of the particle. The implication is that relativistic calculations can be performed by transforming non-relativistic results from the particle rest frame to the frame of an inertial observer. This is demonstrated by considering a relativistic stream of non-interacting particles of cosmological origin and showing how their energy distribution evolves as a result of SL as they traverse the Universe. A solution is presented and the potential for astrophysical observations is discussed.

id: 1306.5665
title: Quantum breathing dynamics of ultracold bosons in 1D-harmonic traps: Unraveling the pathway from few- to many-body systems
authors: R¨¹diger Schmitz, Sven Kr?nke, Lushuai Cao, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043601 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5665
abstract: Following a `bottom-up approach' in understanding many-particle effects and dynamics we provide a systematic ab initio study of the dependence of the breathing dynamics of ultracold bosons in a 1D harmonic trap on the number of bosons ranging from few to many. To this end, we employ the Multi-Layer Multi-Configuration Time-Dependent Hartree method for Bosons (ML-MCTDHB) which has been developed very recently [S. Kr\"onke, L. Cao, O. Vendrell and P. Schmelcher. {\it New J. Phys.} {\bf 15}, 063018 (2013)]. The beating behavior for two bosons is found numerically and consequently explained by an analytical approach. Drawing on this, we show how to compute the complete breathing mode spectrum in this case. We examine how the two-mode breathing behavior of two bosons evolves to the single-frequency behavior of the many-particle limit when adding more particles. In the limit of many particles, we numerically study the dependence of the breathing mode frequency on both the interaction strength as well as on the particle number. We provide an estimate for the parameter region in which Gross-Pitaevskii theory is well applicable.

id: 1306.5711
title: Entanglement negativity and topological order
authors: Yirun Arthur Lee, Guifre Vidal
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures (discussion enlarged) -- results closely related to C. Castelnovo, arXiv:1306.4990
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 042318 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5711
abstract: We use the entanglement negativity, a measure of entanglement for mixed states, to probe the structure of entanglement in the ground state of a topologically ordered system. Through analytical calculations of the negativity in the ground state(s) of the toric code model, we explicitly show that the entanglement of a region $A$ and its complement $B$ is the sum of two types of contributions. The first type of contributions consists of \textit{boundary entanglement}, which we see to be insensitive to tracing out the interior of $A$ and $B$. It therefore entangles only degrees of freedom in $A$ and $B$ that are close to their common boundary. As it is well-known, each boundary contribution is proportional to the size of the relevant boundary separating $A$ and $B$ and it includes an additive, universal correction. The second contribution appears only when $A$ and $B$ are non-contractible regions (e.g. on a torus) and it consists of long-range entanglement, which we see to be destroyed when tracing out a non-contractible region in the interior of $A$ or $B$. Only the long-range contribution to the entanglement may depend on the specific ground state under consideration.

id: 1306.5772
title: Detection-Loophole-Free Test of Quantum Nonlocality, and Applications
authors: B. G. Christensen, K. T. McCusker, J. Altepeter, B. Calkins, T. Gerrits, A. Lita, A. Miller, L. K. Shalm, Y. Zhang, S. W. Nam, N. Brunner, C. C. W. Lim, N. Gisin, P. G. Kwiat
comments: Main text: 5 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. Supplementary Information: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: B.G.Christensen, et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 130406 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5772
abstract: We present a source of entangled photons that violates a Bell inequality free of the "fair-sampling" assumption, by over 7 standard deviations. This violation is the first experiment with photons to close the detection loophole, and we demonstrate enough "efficiency" overhead to eventually perform a fully loophole-free test of local realism. The entanglement quality is verified by maximally violating additional Bell tests, testing the upper limit of quantum correlations. Finally, we use the source to generate secure private quantum random numbers at rates over 4 orders of magnitude beyond previous experiments.

id: 1306.5801
title: Two-photon interference between disparate sources for quantum networking
authors: A. R. McMillan, L. Labont¨¦, A. S. Clark, B. Bell, O. Alibart, A. Martin, W. J. Wadsworth, S. Tanzilli, J. G. Rarity
comments: 
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 2032 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5801
abstract: Quantum networks involve entanglement sharing between multiple users. Ideally, any two users would be able to connect regardless of the type of photon source they employ, provided they fulfill the requirements for two-photon interference. From a theoretical perspective, photons coming from different origins can interfere with a perfect visibility, provided they are made indistinguishable in all degrees of freedom. Previous experimental demonstrations of such a scenario have been limited to photon wavelengths below 900 nm, unsuitable for long distance communication, and suffered from low interference visibility. We report two-photon interference using two disparate heralded single photon sources, which involve different nonlinear effects, operating in the telecom wavelength range. The measured visibility of the two-photon interference is 80+/-4%, which paves the way to hybrid universal quantum networks.

id: 1306.5805
title: No-go theorem for the composition of quantum systems
authors: Maximilian Schlosshauer, Arthur Fine
comments: 4 pages. v2: new title, significant revisions. v3: condensed, matches final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 070407 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5805
abstract: Building on the Pusey-Barrett-Rudolph theorem, we derive a no-go theorem for a vast class of deterministic hidden-variables theories, including those consistent on their targeted domain. The strength of this result throws doubt on seemingly natural assumptions (like the "preparation independence" of the Pusey-Barrett-Rudolph theorem) about how "real states" of subsystems compose for joint systems in nonentangled states. This points to constraints in modeling tensor-product states, similar to constraints demonstrated for more complex states by the Bell and Bell-Kochen-Specker theorems.

id: 1306.5813
title: Mechanical memory for photons with orbital angular momentum
authors: H. Shi, M. Bhattacharya
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5813
abstract: We propose to use an acoustic surface wave as a memory for a photon carrying orbital angular momentum. We clarify the physical mechanism that enables the transfer of information, derive the angular momentum selection rule that must be obeyed in the process, and show how to optimize the optoacoustic coupling. We theoretically demonstrate that high fidelities can be achieved, using realistic parameters, for the transfer of a coherent optical Laguerre-Gaussian state, associated with large angular momentum, to a mechanical shear mode. Our results add a significant possibility to the ongoing efforts towards the implementation of quantum information processing using photonic orbital angular momentum.

id: 1306.5814
title: Long distance measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution with entangled photon sources
authors: Feihu Xu, Bing Qi, Zhongfa Liao, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: Published version
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 103, 061101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5814
abstract: We present a practical method that can make quantum key distribution (QKD), for the first time, both ultra-long-distance and immune to all attacks in the detection system. This method is an important extension of the measurement-device-independent QKD (MDI-QKD) - MDI-QKD with entangled photon sources in the middle. By proposing a general model and simulating an entanglement based QKD experiment, we find that MDI-QKD with one entangled photon source in the middle can practically tolerate 77 dB combined loss (367km standard telecom fiber) in the asymptotic limit, and it can still tolerate 60 dB combined loss (286km standard telecom fiber) in the finite-key case with state-of-the-art detectors. Our general model can also be applied to other non-QKD experiments involving entangled photon sources and Bell state measurements.

id: 1306.5863
title: Quantum oblivious transfer and bit commitment protocols based on two non-orthogonal states coding
authors: Li Yang
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5863
abstract: Oblivious transfer (OT) protocol is presented based on non-orthogonal states transmission. Then, the bit commitment protocols on the top of it are constructed. Contrast to classical cryptography, the bit commitment protocols may insecure even if the OT and the composition itself are secure. Finally, we present some interactive bit commitment protocols which are probably beyond the famous no-go theorem.

id: 1306.5892
title: Abelian and non-Abelian gauge fields in dipole-dipole interacting Rydberg atoms
authors: Martin Kiffner, Wenhui Li, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, contribution to the Journal of Physics B special issue on non-Abelian gauge fields
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 134008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5892
abstract: We show that the dipole-dipole interaction between two Rydberg atoms can lead to substantial Abelian and non-Abelian gauge fields acting on the relative motion of the two atoms. We demonstrate how the gauge fields can be evaluated by numerical techniques. In the case of adiabatic motion in a single internal state, we show that the gauge fields give rise to a magnetic field that results in a Zeeman splitting of the rotational states. In particular, the ground state of a molecular potential well is given by the first excited rotational state. We find that our system realises a synthetic spin-orbit coupling where the relative atomic motion couples to two internal two-atom states. The associated gauge fields are non-Abelian.

id: 1306.5920
title: Sandwiched R¨¦nyi Divergence Satisfies Data Processing Inequality
authors: Salman Beigi
comments: 13 pages, title changed, fixed typos, results unchanged, to appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 122202 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5920
abstract: Sandwiched (quantum) $\alpha$-R\'enyi divergence has been recently defined in the independent works of Wilde et al. (arXiv:1306.1586) and M\"uller-Lennert et al (arXiv:1306.3142v1). This new quantum divergence has already found applications in quantum information theory. Here we further investigate properties of this new quantum divergence. In particular we show that sandwiched $\alpha$-R\'enyi divergence satisfies the data processing inequality for all values of $\alpha> 1$. Moreover we prove that $\alpha$-Holevo information, a variant of Holevo information defined in terms of sandwiched $\alpha$-R\'enyi divergence, is super-additive. Our results are based on H\"older's inequality, the Riesz-Thorin theorem and ideas from the theory of complex interpolation. We also employ Sion's minimax theorem.

id: 1306.5940
title: A high-speed multi-protocol quantum key distribution transmitter based on a dual-drive modulator
authors: Boris Korzh, Nino Walenta, Raphael Houlmann, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 21, Issue 17, pp. 19579-19592 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5940
abstract: We propose a novel source based on a dual-drive modulator that is adaptable and allows Alice to choose between various practical quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols depending on what receiver she is communicating with. Experimental results show that the proposed transmitter is suitable for implementation of the Bennett and Brassard 1984 (BB84), coherent one-way (COW) and differential phase shift (DPS) protocols with stable and low quantum bit error rate. This could become a useful component in network QKD, where multi-protocol capability is highly desirable.

id: 1306.5950
title: Quantum science and metrology with mixed-species ion chains
authors: Jonathan P. Home
comments: 30 pages, 8 figures, revtex4. Review article for Adv. At. Mol. Phys.. Final fully-formatted version will appear in print. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5950
abstract: This chapter reviews recent developments in the use of mixed-species ion chains in quantum information science, frequency metrology and spectroscopy. A growing number of experiments have demonstrated new methods in this area, opening up new possibilities for quantum state generation, quantum control of previously inaccessible ions, and the ability to maintain quantum control over extended periods. I describe these methods, providing details of the techniques which are required in order to work with such systems. In addition, I present perspectives on possible future uses of quantum logic spectroscopy techniques, which have the potential to extend precision control of atomic ions to a large range of atomic and molecular species.

id: 1306.5953
title: Entangling quantum gate in trapped ions via Rydberg blockade
authors: Weibin Li, Igor Lesanovsky
comments: submitted to the special issue "Wolfgang Paul 100"
journal: Applied Physics B 114, 37 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5953
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of the implementation of an entangling quantum gate between two trapped Ca$^+$ ions which is based on the dipolar interaction among ionic Rydberg states. In trapped ions the Rydberg excitation dynamics is usually strongly affected by mechanical forces due to the strong couplings between electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom in inhomogeneous electric fields. We demonstrate that this harmful effect can be overcome by using dressed states that emerge from the microwave coupling of nearby Rydberg states. At the same time these dressed states exhibit long range dipolar interactions which we use to implement a controlled adiabatic phase gate. Our study highlights a route towards a trapped ion quantum processor in which quantum gates are realized independently of the vibrational modes.

id: 1306.5957
title: Decoherence effects in the quantum qubit flip game using Markovian approximation
authors: Piotr Gawron, Dariusz Kurzyk, ?ukasz Pawela
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5957
abstract: We are considering a quantum version of the penny flip game, whose implementation is influenced by the environment that causes decoherence of the system. In order to model the decoherence we assume Markovian approximation of open quantum system dynamics. We focus our attention on the phase damping, amplitude damping and amplitude raising channels. Our results show that the Pauli strategy is no longer a Nash equilibrium under decoherence. We attempt to optimize the players' control pulses in the aforementioned setup to allow them to achieve higher probability of winning the game compared to the Pauli strategy.

id: 1306.5980
title: Quantum non-Markovian behavior at the chaos border
authors: I. Garcia-Mata, Carlos Pineda, Diego A. Wisniacki
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures (JPA style). Closest to published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 (2014) 115301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5980
abstract: In this work we study the non-Markovian behaviour of a qubit coupled to an environment in which the corresponding classical dynamics change from integrable to chaotic. We show that in the transition region, where the dynamics has both regular islands and chaotic areas, the average non-Markovian behaviour is enhanced to values even larger than in the regular regime. This effect can be related to the non-Markovian behaviour as a function of the the initial state of the environment, where maxima are attained at the regions dividing separate areas in classical phase space, particularly at the borders between chaotic and regular regions. Moreover, we show that the fluctuations of the fidelity of the environment -- which determine the non-Markovianity measure -- give a precise image of the classical phase portrait.

id: 1306.5992
title: Interpolatability distinguishes LOCC from separable von Neumann measurements
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Debbie Leung, Laura Mancinska, Maris Ozols
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 54, 112204 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5992
abstract: Local operations with classical communication (LOCC) and separable operations are two classes of quantum operations that play key roles in the study of quantum entanglement. Separable operations are strictly more powerful than LOCC, but no simple explanation of this phenomenon is known. We show that, in the case of von Neumann measurements, the ability to interpolate measurements is an operational principle that sets apart LOCC and separable operations.

id: 1306.6002
title: An operational link between MUBs and SICs
authors: Roberto Beneduci, Tom Bullock, Paul Busch, Claudio Carmeli, Teiko Heinosaari, Alessandro Toigo
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032312 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6002
abstract: We exhibit an operational connection between mutually unbiased bases and symmetric infomationally complete positive operator-valued measures. Assuming that the latter exists, we show that there is a strong link between these two structures in all prime power dimensions. We also demonstrate that a similar link cannot exists in dimension 6.

id: 1306.6024
title: Ground-state entanglement in coupled qubits
authors: A.Yu. Smirnov, M.H. Amin
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6024
abstract: We study a system of qubits that are coupled to each other via only one degree of freedom represented, e.g., by $\sigma_z$-operators. We prove that, if by changing the Hamiltonian parameters, a non-degenerate ground state of the system is continuously transformed in such a way that the expectation values of $\sigma_z$ operators of at least two coupled qubits change, this ground state is entangled. Using this proof, we discuss connection between energy level anticrossings and ground state entanglement. Following the same line of thought, we introduce entanglement witnesses, based on cross-susceptibilities, that can detect ground state entanglement for any bipartition of the multi-qubit system. A witness for global ground state entanglement is also introduced.

id: 1306.6061
title: Photon-Number-Splitting-attack resistant Quantum Key Distribution Protocols without sifting
authors: Fabio Grazioso, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Grosshans
comments: Replaces hal-00404710 arXiv:0907.2897 . It is a significantly extended version of this older work. v2 is slightly updated in order to address referee's comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6061
abstract: We propose a family of sifting-less quantum-key-distribution protocols which use reverse-reconciliation, and are based on weak coherent pulses (WCPs) polarized along m different directions. When m=4, the physical part of the protocol is identical to most experimental implementations of BB84 and SARG04 protocols and they differ only in classical communications and data processing. We compute their total keyrate as function of the channel transmission T, using general information theoretical arguments and we show that they have a higher keyrate than the more standard protocols, both for fixed and optimized average photon number of the WCPs. When no decoy-state protocols (DSPs) are applied, the scaling of the keyrate with transmission is improved from T<sup>2</sup> for BB84 to T^(1+1/(m-2)). If a DSP is applied, we show how the keyrates scale linearly with T, with an improvement of the prefactor by 75.96 % for m=4. High values of $ m $ allow to asymptotically approach the keyrate obtained with ideal single photon pulses. The fact that the keyrates of these sifting-less protocols are higher compared to those of the aforementioned more standard protocols show that the latter are not optimal, since they do not extract all the available secret key from the experimental correlations.

id: 1306.6098
title: Heralding an Arbitrary Decoherence-Free Qubit State
authors: C. Allen Bishop, Ryan S. Bennink, Travis S. Humble, Philip G. Evans, Mark S. Byrd
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6098
abstract: We present an optical device which is capable of heralding a variety of DFS states which protect against collective noise. Specifically, it can prepare all three basis states which span a DFS qutrit as well as an arbitrarily encoded DFS qubit state. We also discuss an interferometric technique for determining the amplitudes associated with an arbitrary encoding. The heralded state may find use in coherent optical systems which exhibit collective correlations.

id: 1306.6114
title: Quantum frameness for Charge-Parity-Time inversion symmetry
authors: Michael Skotiniotis, Borzu Toloui, Ian T. Durham, Barry C. Sanders
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letters 111, 020504 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6114
abstract: We develop a theory of charge-parity-time (CPT) frameness resources to circumvent CPT-superselection. We construct and quantify such resources for spin~0, $\frac{1}{2}$, 1, and Majorana particles and show that quantum information processing is possible even with CPT superselection. Our method employs a unitary representation of CPT inversion by considering the aggregate action of CPT rather than the composition of separate C, P and T operations, as some of these operations involve problematic anti-unitary representations.

id: 1306.6134
title: Experimental Demonstration of Polarization Encoding Measurement-Device-Independent Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Zhiyuan Tang, Zhongfa Liao, Feihu Xu, Bing Qi, Li Qian, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 190503 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6134
abstract: We demonstrate the first implementation of polarization encoding measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution (MDI-QKD), which is immune to all detector side-channel attacks. Active phase randomization of each individual pulse is implemented to protect against attacks on imperfect sources. By optimizing the parameters in the decoy state protocol, we show that it is feasible to implement polarization encoding MDI-QKD over large optical fiber distances. A 1600-bit secure key is generated between two parties separated by 10 km of telecom fibers. Our work suggests the possibility of building a MDI-QKD network, in which complicated and expensive detection system is placed in a central node and users connected to it can perform confidential communication by preparing polarization qubits with compact and low-cost equipment. Since MDI-QKD is highly compatible with the quantum network, our work brings the realization of quantum internet one step closer.

id: 1306.6147
title: Minimum heat dissipation in measurement-based quantum computation
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 042335 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6147
abstract: We show that at least 2kTln2 of heat dissipation per qubit occurs in measurement-based quantum computation according to Landauer's principle. This result is derived by using only the fundamental fact that quantum physics respects the no-signaling principle.

id: 1306.6152
title: Effective dynamics of cold atoms flowing in two ring shaped optical potentials with tunable tunneling
authors: Davit Aghamalyan, Luigi Amico, L.C Kwek
comments: 11 pages,8 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A 88, 063627 (2013) [11 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6152
abstract: We study the current dynamics of coupled atomic condensates flowing in two ring-shaped optical potentials. We provide a specific setup where the ring-ring coupling can be tuned in experimentally feasible way. It is demonstrated that the imaginary time effective action of the system in a weak coupling regime provides a two-level-system-dynamics for the phase slip across the two rings. Through two-mode Gross- Pitaevskii mean field equations, the real time dynamics of the population imbalance and the phase difference between of the two condensates is thoroughly analyzed analytically, as function of the relevant physical parameters of the system. In particular, we find that the macroscopic quantum self trapping phenomenon is induced in the system if the flowing currents assume a non vanishing difference.

id: 1306.6184
title: Best Separable Approximation of multipartite diagonal symmetric states
authors: Ruben Quesada, Anna Sanpera
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 052319 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6184
abstract: The structural study of entanglement in multipartite systems is hindered by the lack of necessary and sufficient operational criteria able to discriminate among the various entanglement properties of a given mixed state. Here, we pursue a different route to the study of multipartite entanglement based on the closeness of a multipartite state to the set of separable ones. In particular, we analyze multipartite diagonal symmetric N qubit states and provide the analytical expression for their Best Separable Approximation (BSA [Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 2261 (1998)]), that is, their unique convex decomposition into a separable part and an entangled one with maximal weight of the separable one.

id: 1306.6195
title: Improved quantum test for linearity of a Boolean function
authors: Kaushik Chakraborty, Subhamoy Maitra
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6195
abstract: Let a Boolean function be available as a black-box (oracle) and one likes to devise an algorithm to test whether it has certain property or it is $\epsilon$-far from having that property. The efficiency of the algorithm is judged by the number of calls to the oracle so that one can decide, with high probability, between these two alternatives. The best known quantum algorithm for testing whether a function is linear or $\epsilon$-far $(0 < \epsilon < \frac{1}{2})$ from linear functions requires $O(\epsilon^{-\frac{2}{3}})$ many calls [Hillery and Andersson, Physical Review A 84, 062329 (2011)]. We show that this can be improved to $O(\epsilon^{-\frac{1}{2}})$ by using the Deutsch-Jozsa and the Grover Algorithms.

id: 1306.6229
title: Time crystals: can diamagnetic currents drive a charge density wave into rotation?
authors: Philippe Nozi¨¨res
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6229
abstract: It has been argued recently that an inhomogeneous system could rotate spontaneously in its ground state - hence a 'time crystal' which is periodic in time. In this note we present a very simple example: a superfluid ring threaded by a magnetic field which develops a charge density wave (CDW). A naive calculation shows that diamagnetic currents cannot drive rotation of the CDW, with a clear picture of the cancellation mechanism.

id: 1306.6275
title: Impossibility of Spontaneously Rotating Time-Crystals: A No-Go Theorem
authors: Patrick Bruno
comments: 5 pages (main paper) + 5 pages (supplemental material); v2: typos corrected, references updated; v3: final version, as published (minor changes with respect to v2)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 070402 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6275
abstract: I present arguments indicating the impossibility of spontaneously rotating quantum timecrystals, as recently proposed by Frank Wilczek [arXiv:1202.2539]. In particular, I prove a No-Go Theorem, rigorously ruling out the possibility of spontaneous ground-state (or thermal equilibrium) rotation for a broad class of systems.

id: 1306.6289
title: The exclusivity principle forbids sets of correlations larger than the quantum set
authors: Barbara Amaral, Marcelo Terra Cunha, Ad¨¢n Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, one new result (Result 2) and two new authors, title changed accordingly
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 030101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6289
abstract: We show that the exclusivity (E) principle singles out the set of quantum correlations associated to any exclusivity graph assuming the set of quantum correlations for the complementary graph. Moreover, we prove that, for self-complementary graphs, the E principle, by itself (i.e., without further assumptions), excludes any set of correlations strictly larger than the quantum set. Finally, we prove that, for vertex-transitive graphs, the E principle singles out the maximum value for the quantum correlations assuming only the quantum maximum for the complementary graph. This opens the door for testing the impossibility of higher-than-quantum correlations in experiments.

id: 1306.6301
title: Effects of the rotating wave and secular approximations on non-Markovianity
authors: H. M?kel?, M. M?tt?nen
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052111 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6301
abstract: We study the effect of the rotating-wave approximation (RWA) and the secular approximation (SA) on the non-Markovian behavior in the spin-boson model at zero-temperature. We find that both the RWA and SA lead to a dramatic reduction in the observed non-Markovianity. In general, non-Markovian dynamics is observed for the whole relaxation time of the system, whereas the RWA and SA lead to such dynamics only on the short time scale of the environmental correlation time. Thus, the RWA and SA are not necessarily justified in the studies of non-Markovianity although they can estimate the state of the system precisely. Furthermore, we derive an accurate analytical expression for the non-Markovianity measure without the RWA or SA. This expression yields important insight into the physics of the problem.

id: 1306.6321
title: When amplification with weak values fails to suppress technical noise
authors: George C. Knee, Erik M. Gauger
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review X
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 011032, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6321
abstract: The application of postselection to a weak quantum measurement leads to the phenomenon of weak values. Expressed in units of the measurement strength, the displacement of a quantum coherent measuring device is ordinarily bounded by the eigenspectrum of the measured observable. Postselection can enable an interference effect that moves the average displacement far outside this range, bringing practical benefits in certain situations. Employing the Fisher information metric, we argue that the amplified displacement offers no fundamental metrological advantage, due to the necessarily reduced probability of success. Our understanding of metrological advantage is the possibility of a lower uncertainty in the estimate of an unknown parameter with a large number of trials. We analyze a situation in which the detector is pixelated with a finite resolution, and in which the detector is afflicted by random displacements: imperfections which degrade the fundamental limits of parameter estimation. Surprisingly, weak-value amplification is no more robust to them than a technique making no use of the amplification effect brought about by a final, postselected measurement.

id: 1306.6356
title: Mechanical spin control of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond
authors: E. R. MacQuarrie, T. A. Gosavi, N. R. Jungwirth, S. A. Bhave, G. D. Fuchs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6356
abstract: As spin-based quantum technology evolves, the ability to manipulate spin with non-magnetic fields is critical - both for the development of hybrid quantum systems and for compatibility with conventional technology. Particularly useful examples are electric fields, optical fields, and mechanical lattice vibrations. The last of these represents direct spin-phonon coupling, which has garnered fundamental interest as a potential mediator of spin-spin interactions, but could also find applications in high-stability inertial sensing. In this Letter, we demonstrate direct coupling between phonons and nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center spins in diamond by inducing spin transitions with mechanically-driven harmonic strain. The ability to control NV spins mechanically can enhance NV-based quantum metrology, grant access to all transitions within the spin-1 quantum state of the NV center, and provide a platform to study spin-phonon interactions at the level of a few interacting spins.

id: 1306.6359
title: Quantum synchronization of quantum van der Pol oscillators with trapped ions
authors: Tony E. Lee, H. R. Sadeghpour
comments: 5 pages + appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 234101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6359
abstract: Van der Pol oscillators are prototypical self-sustaining oscillators which have been used to model nonlinear processes in biological and other classical processes. In this work, we investigate how quantum fluctuations affect phase-locking in one or many van der Pol oscillators. We find that phase-locking is much more robust in the quantum model than in the equivalent classical model. Trapped-ion experiments are ideally suited to simulate van der Pol oscillators in the quantum regime via sideband heating and cooling of motional modes. We provide realistic experimental parameters for ${}^{171}\text{Yb}^+$ achievable with current technology.

id: 1306.6387
title: Geometric phase effects in dynamics near conical intersections: Symmetry breaking and spatial localization
authors: Ilya G. Ryabinkin, Artur F. Izmaylov
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 111, 220406 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6387
abstract: We show that finite systems with conical intersections can exhibit spontaneous symmetry breaking which manifests itself in spatial localization of eigenstates. This localization has a geometric phase origin and is robust against variation of model parameters. The transition between localized and delocalized eigenstate regimes resembles a continuous phase transition. The localization slows down the low-energy quantum nuclear dynamics at zero and low temperatures.

id: 1306.6427
title: Is global asymptotic cloning state estimation?
authors: Yuxiang Yang, Giulio Chiribella
comments: 16 pages, no figures, Proceedings of the 8th Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography (TQC 2013), S. Severini and F. Brandao eds. Largely extended by arXiv:1404.0990
journal: LIPICS 22, 220 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6427
abstract: We pose the question whether the asymptotic equivalence between quantum cloning and quantum state estimation, valid at single-copy level, still holds when all the copies are examined jointly. For an N-to-M cloner, we consider the overall fidelity between the state of the M output systems and the state of M ideal copies, and we ask whether the optimal fidelity is attained by a measure-and- prepare protocol in the limit of large M. In order to gain intuition into the general problem, we analyze two concrete examples: i) cloning qubit states on the equator of the Bloch sphere and ii) cloning two-qubit maximally entangled states. In the first case, we show that the optimal measure-and- prepare fidelity converges to the fidelity of the optimal cloner in the limit of large M. In the second case, we restrict our attention to economical covariant cloners, and again, we exhibit a measure- and-prepare protocol that achieves asymptotically the optimal fidelity. Quite counterintuitively, in both cases the optimal states that have to be prepared in order to maximize the overall fidelity are not product states corresponding to M identical copies, but instead suitable M-partite entangled states: the simple protocol where one estimates the input state and re-prepares M identical copies of the estimated state is strictly suboptimal, even in the asymptotic limit.

id: 1306.6431
title: Quantum state estimation with unknown measurements
authors: Merlin Cooper, Michal Karpinski, Brian J. Smith
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Communications 5:4332 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6431
abstract: Improved measurement techniques are central to technological development and foundational scientific exploration. Quantum optics relies upon detectors sensitive to non-classical features of light, enabling precise tests of physical laws and quantum-enhanced technologies such as precision measurement and secure communications. Accurate detector response calibration for quantum-scale inputs is key to future research and development in these cognate areas. To address this requirement quantum detector tomography (QDT) has been recently introduced. However, the QDT approach becomes increasingly challenging as the complexity of the detector response and input space grows. Here we present the first experimental implementation of a versatile alternative characterization technique to address many-outcome quantum detectors by limiting the input calibration region. To demonstrate the applicability of this approach the calibrated detector is subsequently used to estimate non-classical photon number states.

id: 1306.6495
title: Orbital angular momentum entanglement in turbulence
authors: Alpha Hamadou Ibrahim, Filippus S. Roux, Melanie McLaren, Thomas Konrad, Andrew Forbes
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6495
abstract: The turbulence induced decay of orbital angular momentum (OAM) entanglement between two photons is investigated numerically and experimentally. To compare our results with previous work, we simulate the turbulent atmosphere with a single phase screen based on the Kolmogorov theory of turbulence. We consider two different scenarios: in the first only one of the two photons propagates through turbulence, and in the second both photons propagate through uncorrelated turbulence. Comparing the entanglement evolution for different OAM values, we found the entanglement to be more robust in turbulence for higher OAM values. We derive an empirical formula for the distance scale at which entanglement decays in term of the scale parameters and the OAM value.

id: 1306.6504
title: Entanglement estimation from Bell inequality violation
authors: Karol Bartkiewicz, Bohdan Horst, Karel Lemr, Adam Miranowicz
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052105 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6504
abstract: It is well known that the violation of Bell's inequality in the form given by Clauser, Horne, Shimony, and Holt (CHSH) in two-qubit systems requires entanglement, but not vice versa, i.e., there are entangled states which do not violate the CHSH inequality. Here we compare some standard entanglement measures with violations of the CHSH inequality (as given by the Horodecki measure) for two-qubit states generated by Monte Carlo simulations. We describe states that have extremal entanglement according to the negativity, concurrence, and relative entropy of entanglement for a given value of the CHSH violation. We explicitly find these extremal states by applying the generalized method of Lagrange multipliers based on the Karush-Kuhn-Tucker conditions. The found minimal and maximal states define the range of entanglement accessible for any two-qubit states that violate the CHSH inequality by the same amount. We also find extremal states for the concurrence versus negativity by considering only such states which do not violate the CHSH inequality. Furthermore, we describe an experimentally efficient linear-optical method to determine the highest Horodecki degree of the CHSH violation for arbitrary mixed states of two polarization qubits. By assuming to have access simultaneously to two copies of the states, our method requires only six discrete measurement settings instead of nine settings, which are usually considered.

id: 1306.6517
title: The Forgotten Quantum Number: A short note on the radial modes of Laguerre-Gauss beams
authors: William N. Plick, Radek Lapkiewicz, Sven Ramelow, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 9 pages, Comments encouraged (billplick@gmail.com)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6517
abstract: The orbital angular momentum quantum number of Laguerre-Gauss beams has received an explosively increasing amount of attention over the past twenty years. However, often overlooked is the so-called radial number of these beams. We present a derivation of the differential operator formalism of this "forgotten" quantum number. We then draw some connections between this new formalism and the effect the radial number has on beam stability with possible application to quantum communication. We also briefly outline how the radial number is tied to other physical aspects of the beam (such as the Gouy phase, and radial confinement). These do not necessarily constitute finished results, but are instead meant to stimulate discussion of this interesting and often overlooked physical parameter.

id: 1306.6524
title: On Relativistic Entanglement and Localization of Particles and on their Comparison with the Non-Relativistic Theory
authors: Horace W. Crater, Luca Lusanna
comments: 22 pages, revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6524
abstract: We make a critical comparison of relativistic and non-relativistic classical and quantum mechanics of particles in inertial frames and of the open problems in particle localization at the two levels. The solution of the problems of the relativistic center of mass, of the clock synchronization convention needed to define relativistic 3-spaces and of the elimination of the relative times in the relativistic bound states leads to a description with a decoupled non-local (non-measurable) relativistic center of mass and with only relative variables for the particles (single particle subsystems do not exist). We analyze the implications for entanglement of this relativistic spatial non-separability not existing in non-relativistic entanglement. Then we try to reconcile the two visions showing that also at the non-relativistic level in real experiments only relative variables are measured with their directions determined by the effective mean classical trajectories of particle beams present in the experiment. We discuss some of the existing problems with the observers and their reference frames, leaving to the future the discussion in non-inertial frames.

id: 1306.6525
title: Bipartite entanglement-annihilating maps: necessary and sufficient conditions
authors: S. N. Filippov, M. Ziman
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 032316 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6525
abstract: We fully characterize bipartite entanglement-annihilating (EA) channels that destroy entanglement of any state shared by subsystems and, thus, should be avoided in any entanglement-enabled experiment. Our approach relies on extending the problem to EA positive maps, the cone of which remains invariant under concatenation with partially positive maps. Due to this invariancy, positive EA maps adopt a well characterization and their intersection with completely positive trace-preserving maps results in the set of EA channels. In addition to a general description, we also provide sufficient operational criteria revealing EA channels. They have a clear physical meaning since the processes involved contain stages of classical information transfer for subsystems. We demonstrate the applicability of derived criteria for local and global depolarizing noises, and specify corresponding noise levels beyond which any initial state becomes disentangled after passing the channel. The robustness of some entangled states is discussed.

id: 1306.6528
title: Quasi-pinning and entanglement in the lithium isoelectronic series
authors: Carlos L. Benavides-Riveros, Jos¨¦ M. Gracia-Bond¨ªa, Michael Springborg
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures, minor changes, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022508 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6528
abstract: The Pauli exclusion principle gives an upper bound of 1 on the natural occupation numbers. Recently there has been an intriguing amount of theoretical evidence that there is a plethora of additional generalized Pauli restrictions or (in)equalities, of kinematic nature, satisfied by these numbers. Here for the first time a numerical analysis of the nature of such constraints is effected in real atoms. The inequalities are nearly saturated, or quasi-pinned. For rank-six and rank-seven approximations for lithium, the deviation from saturation is smaller than the lowest occupancy number. For a rank-eight approximation we find well-defined families of saturation conditions.

id: 1306.6536
title: Probing Strongly Coupled Chameleons with Slow Neutrons
authors: Philippe Brax, Guillaume Pignol, Damien Roulier
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 083004 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6536
abstract: We consider different methods to probe chameleons with slow neutrons. Chameleon modify the potential of bouncing neutrons over a flat mirror in the terrestrial gravitational field. This induces a shift in the energy levels of the neutrons which could be detected in current experiments like GRANIT. Chameleons between parallel plates have a field profile which is bubble-like and which would modify the phase of neutrons in interferometric experiments. We show that this new method of detection is competitive with the bouncing neutron one, hopefully providing an efficient probe of chameleons when strongly coupled to matter.

id: 1306.6573
title: Plethora of q-oscillators possessing pairwise energy level degeneracy
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, A.P. Rebesh
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures; earlier published paper placed for archival purposes
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A23, no.13 (2008), 921-932
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6573
abstract: Using the q,p-deformed oscillators as basic generating system, we obtain diverse classes (which form distinct sectors of functional continua) of novel versions of q-deformed oscillators, all of which share the property of "accidental" degeneracy within a fixed pair of energy levels E_{m} = E_{m+1}, m\ge 1, occurring at the real deformation parameter fixed by an appropriate value q(m) that depends on m and on particular model. Likewise, the degeneracy E_{0} = E_{k} (where k\ge 2) takes place, for properly fixed q=q(k), in most of those models. The formerly studied model of q-oscillator known as the Tamm-Dancoff cutoff deformed oscillator is contained in the continua as isolated special case.

id: 1306.6579
title: Matter Wave Interferometry of a Levitated Thermal Nano-Oscillator Induced and Probed by a Spin
authors: M. Scala, M. S. Kim, G. W. Morley, P. F. Barker, S. Bose
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, version accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 180403 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6579
abstract: We show how the interference between spatially separated states of the center of mass (COM) of a mesoscopic harmonic oscillator can be evidenced by coupling it to a spin and performing solely spin manipulations and measurements (Ramsey Interferometry). We propose to use an optically levitated diamond bead containing an NV center spin. The nano-scale size of the bead makes the motional decoherence due to levitation negligible. The form of the spin-motion coupling ensures that the scheme works for thermal states so that moderate feedback cooling suffices. No separate control or observation of the COM state is required and thereby one dispenses with cavities, spatially resolved detection and low mass-dispersion ensembles. The controllable relative phase in the Ramsey interferometry stems from a gravitational potential difference so that it uniquely evidences coherence between states which involve the whole nano-crystal being in spatially distinct locations.

id: 1306.6600
title: Semiclassical description of resonance-assisted tunneling in one-dimensional integrable models
authors: J¨¦r¨¦my Le Deunff, Amaury Mouchet, Peter Schlagheck
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 042927 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6600
abstract: Resonance-assisted tunneling is investigated within the framework of one-dimensional integrable systems. We present a systematic recipe, based on Hamiltonian normal forms, to construct one-dimensional integrable models that exhibit resonance island chain structures with accurately controlled sizes and positions of the islands. Using complex classical trajectories that evolve along suitably defined paths in the complex time domain, we construct a semiclassical theory of the resonance-assisted tunneling process. This semiclassical approach yields a compact analytical expression for tunneling-induced level splittings which is found to be in very good agreement with the exact splittings obtained through numerical diagonalisation.

id: 1306.6603
title: Parametric amplification of the mechanical vibrations of a suspended nanowire by magnetic coupling to a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Z. Dar¨¢zs, Z. Kurucz, O. K¨¢lm¨¢n, T. Kiss, J. Fort¨¢gh, P. Domokos
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 133603 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6603
abstract: We consider the possibility of parametric amplification of a mechanical vibration mode of a nanowire due to its interaction with a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) of ultracold atoms. The magneto-mechanical coupling is mediated by the vibrationally modulated magnetic field around the current-carrying nanowire, which can induce atomic transitions between different hyperfine sublevels. We theoretically analyze the limitations arising from the fact that the spin inverted atomic medium which feeds the mechanical oscillation has a finite bandwidth in the range of the chemical potential of the condensate.

id: 1306.6607
title: Dissipative Bohmian mechanics within the Caldirola-Kanai framework: A trajectory analysis of wave-packet dynamics in viscid media
authors: A. S. Sanz, R. Martinez-Casado, H. C. Pennate-Rodriguez, G. Rojas-Lorenzo, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 347, 1 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6607
abstract: Classical viscid media are quite common in our everyday life. However, we are not used to find such media in quantum mechanics, and much less to analyze their effects on the dynamics of quantum systems. In this regard, the Caldirola-Kanai time-dependent Hamiltonian constitutes an appealing model, accounting for friction without including environmental fluctuations (as it happens, for example, with quantum Brownian motion). Here, a Bohmian analysis of the associated friction dynamics is provided in order to understand how a hypothetical, purely quantum viscid medium would act on a wave packet from a (quantum) hydrodynamic viewpoint. To this purpose, a series of paradigmatic contexts have been chosen, such as the free particle, the motion under the action of a linear potential, the harmonic oscillator, or the superposition of two coherent wave packets. Apart from their analyticity, these examples illustrate interesting emerging behaviors, such as localization by "quantum freezing" or a particular type of quantum-classical correspondence. The reliability of the results analytically determined has been checked by means of numerical simulations, which has served to investigate other problems lacking of such analyticity (e.g., the coherent superpositions).

id: 1306.6619
title: A Unified Theory of Quasibound States
authors: Curt A. Moyer
comments: 
journal: AIP ADVANCES 4, 027109 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6619
abstract: We have developed a formalism that includes both quasibound states with real energies and quantum resonances within the same theoretical framework, and that admits a clean and unambiguous distinction between these states and the states of the embedding continuum. States described broadly as 'quasibound' are defined as having a connectedness (in the mathematical sense) to true bound states through the growth of some parameter. The approach taken here builds on our earlier work by clarifying several crucial points and extending the formalism to encompass a variety of continuous spectra, including those with degenerate energy levels. The result is a comprehensive framework for the study of quasibound states. The theory is illustrated by examining several cases pertinent to applications widely discussed in the literature.

id: 1306.6621
title: On the possibility of measuring the Unruh effect
authors: Igor Pe?a, Daniel Sudarsky
comments: V3: 21 pages. New section added and conclusions extended. Accepted for publication in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6621
abstract: There is a persistent state of confusion regarding the nature of the Unruh effect. We will argue that, in contrast to some interpretations thereof, the effect does not represent any novel physics and that, by its very nature, the effect is fundamentally unmeasurable in all experiments of the kind that have been contemplated until now. Also, we discuss what aspects connected with this effect one might consider as possibilities to be explored empirically and what their precise meaning may be regarding the issue at hand.

id: 1306.6641
title: Long-distance distribution of genuine energy-time entanglement
authors: A. Cuevas, G. Carvacho, G. Saavedra, J. Cari?e, W. A. T. Nogueira, M. Figueroa, A. Cabello, P. Mataloni, G. Lima, G. B. Xavier
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Matches published version
journal: Nat. Commun. 4, 2871 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6641
abstract: Any practical realization of entanglement-based quantum communication must be intrinsically secure and able to span long distances avoiding the need of a straight line between the communicating parties. The violation of Bell's inequality offers a method for the certification of quantum links without knowing the inner workings of the devices. Energy-time entanglement quantum communication satisfies all these requirements. However, currently there is a fundamental obstacle with the standard configuration adopted: an intrinsic geometrical loophole that can be exploited to break the security of the communication, in addition to other loopholes. Here we show the first experimental Bell violation with energy-time entanglement distributed over 1 km of optical fibers that is free of this geometrical loophole. This is achieved by adopting a new experimental design, and by using an actively stabilized fiber-based long interferometer. Our results represent an important step towards long-distance secure quantum communication in optical fibers.

id: 1306.6695
title: Implementation of an impedance-matched ¦«system by dressed-state engineering
authors: Kazuki Koshino, Kunihiro Inomata, Tsuyoshi Yamamoto, Yasunobu Nakamura
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6695
abstract: In one-dimensional optical setups, light-matter interaction is drastically enhanced by the interference between the incident and scattered fields. Particularly, in the impedance-matched \Lambda-type three-level systems, a single photon deterministically induces the Raman transition and switches the electronic state of the system. Here we show that such a \Lambda system can be implemented by using dressed states of a driven superconducting qubit and a resonator. The input microwave photons are perfectly absorbed and are down-converted into other frequency modes in the same waveguide. The proposed setup is applicable to single-photon detection in the microwave domain.

id: 1306.6700
title: Observation of three-state dressed states in circuit quantum electrodynamics
authors: K. Koshino, H. Terai, K. Inomata, T. Yamamoto, W. Qiu, Z. Wang, Y. Nakamura
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6700
abstract: We have investigated the microwave response of a transmon qubit coupled directly to a transmission line. In a transmon qubit, owing to its weak anharmonicity, a single driving field may generate dressed states involving more than two bare states. We confirmed the formation of three-state dressed states by observing all of the six associated Rabi sidebands, which appear as either amplification or attenuation of the probe field. The experimental results are reproduced with good precision by a theoretical model incorporating the radiative coupling between the qubit and the microwave.

id: 1306.6732
title: A quantum algorithm for obtaining the energy spectrum of a physical system without guessing its eigenstates
authors: Hefeng Wang
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2014, 16 (30), 16241 - 16245
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6732
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm that provides a general approach for obtaining the energy spectrum of a physical system without making a guess on its eigenstates. In this algorithm, a probe qubit is coupled to a quantum register $R$ which consists of one ancilla qubit and a $n$-qubit register that represents the system. $R$ is prepared in a general reference state, and a general excitation operator acts on $R$ is constructed. The probe exhibits a dynamical response only when it is resonant with a transition from the reference state to an excited state of $R$ which contains the eigenstates of the system. By varying the probe's frequency, the energy spectrum and the eigenstates of the system can be obtained.

id: 1306.6736
title: Aharonov--Bohm effect, electrodynamics postulates, and Lorentz condition
authors: V.B. Bobrov, S.A. Trigger, G.J.F. van Heijst, P.P.J.M. Schram
comments: 9 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6736
abstract: The problem of the relation between the Ahronov-Bohm effect and traditional postulates of electrodynamics, which claim that only electric and magnetic fields are observable, is resolved by denial of the statement about validity of the Maxwell equations for microscopic fields. We proceed from the idea that the Maxwell equations, as the generalization of experimental data, are valid only for averaged values. We show that microscopic electrodynamics should be based on postulation of the d'Alembert equations for four-vector of the electromagnetic field potential. The Lorentz condition is valid only for the averages and provides the implementation of the Maxwell equations for averages. This concept eliminates the problem of electromagnetic field quantization and provides the correctness of all known results of quantum electrodynamics. Therefore, the "virtuality" of the longitudinal and scalar photons has a formal mathematical character, conditioned by the Maxwell equations for averaged fields. The longitudinal and scalar photons provide not only the Coulomb interaction of charged particles, but also allow the electrical Aharonov-Bohm effect.

id: 1306.6757
title: Quantum information and statistical mechanics: an introduction to frontier
authors: Keisuke Fujii
comments: 15pages, 4 figures, to appear in Proceedings of 4th YSM-SPIP (Sendai, 14-16 December 2012)
journal: Interdisciplinary Information Sciences, vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 1-15, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6757
abstract: This is a short review on an interdisciplinary field of quantum information science and statistical mechanics. We first give a pedagogical introduction to the stabilizer formalism, which is an efficient way to describe an important class of quantum states, the so-called stabilizer states, and quantum operations on them. Furthermore, graph states, which are a class of stabilizer states associated with graphs, and their applications for measurement-based quantum computation are also mentioned. Based on the stabilizer formalism, we review two interdisciplinary topics. One is the relation between quantum error correction codes and spin glass models, which allows us to analyze the performances of quantum error correction codes by using the knowledge about phases in statistical models. The other is the relation between the stabilizer formalism and partition functions of classical spin models, which provides new quantum and classical algorithms to evaluate partition functions of classical spin models.

id: 1306.6801
title: An explicit contextualized hidden variable model replicating an indivisible quantum system
authors: William N. Plick, Radek Lapkiewicz
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 022108 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6801
abstract: Recent experiments and theory have further illuminated the concept of "quantum contextuality". In this paper we take an inequality - the Pentagram (or KCBS) inequality, which is violated by an unentangled spin-1 system - and given a relaxed assumption of non-contextuality show that a hidden variable model may be constructed that replicates exactly the quantum bound. This is in contrast to the case of an entangled pair of spin-1/2 particles where a similar relaxation of the assumption of locality does not lead to a replication of the quantum bound. Some reasons are proposed for why this may be the case.

id: 1306.6826
title: Quantum control robust with coupling with an external environment
authors: ?ukasz Pawela, Zbigniew Pucha?a
comments: 6 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6826
abstract: We study coherent quantum control strategy which is robust with respect to coupling with an external environment. We model this interaction by appending an additional subsystem to the initial system and we choose the strength of the coupling to be proportional to the magnitude of the control pulses. Therefore, to minimize the interaction we impose $L_1$ norm restrictions on the control pulses. In order to efficiently solve this optimization problem we employ the BFGS algorithm. We use three different functions as the derivative of the $L1$ norm of control pulses: the signum function, a fractional derivative $\frac{\dd^\alpha |x|}{\dd x^\alpha}$, where $0<\alpha<1$, and the Fermi-Dirac distribution. We show that our method allows to efficiently obtain the control pulses which neglect the coupling with an external environment.

id: 1306.6860
title: Detecting non-locality in multipartite quantum systems with two-body correlation functions
authors: J. Tura, R. Augusiak, A. B. Sainz, T. V¨¦rtesi, M. Lewenstein, A. Ac¨ªn
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Science 13 June 2014: Vol. 344 no. 6189 pp. 1256-1258
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6860
abstract: Bell inequalities define experimentally observable quantities to detect non-locality. In general, they involve correlation functions of all the parties. Unfortunately, these measurements are hard to implement for systems consisting of many constituents, where only few-body correlation functions are accessible. Here we demonstrate that higher-order correlation functions are not necessary to certify nonlocality in multipartite quantum states by constructing Bell inequalities from one- and two-body correlation functions for an arbitrary number of parties. The obtained inequalities are violated by some of the Dicke states, which arise naturally in many-body physics as the ground states of the two-body Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Hamiltonian.

id: 1306.6873
title: Quantum discord and remote state preparation
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022315 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6873
abstract: The role played by quantum discord in mixed-state computation is widely debated since, in spite of evidence of its importance in creating quantum advantages, even in the absence of entanglement, there are not direct proofs of its necessity in these computational tasks. Recently the presence of discord was shown to be necessary and sufficient for remote state preparation for a broad class of quantum channels [B. Daki\'c et al., Nat. Phys. 8, 666 (2012)]. Here, we show that this property is not universal. There are states whose discord cannot be considered as a quantum resource, since it has been produced locally, that are useful for remote state preparation, and there are bona fide discordant states that are of no help.

id: 1306.6894
title: Optimized controlled Z gates for two superconducting qubits coupled through a resonator
authors: D. J. Egger, F. K. Wilhelm
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6894
abstract: Superconducting qubits are a promising candidate for building a quantum computer. A continued challenge for fast yet accurate gates to minimize the effects of decoherence. Here we apply numerical methods to design fast entangling gates, specifically the controlled Z, in an architecture where two qubits are coupled via a resonator. We find that the gates can be sped up by a factor of two and reach any target fidelity. We also discuss how systematic errors arising from experimental conditions affect the pulses and how to remedy them, providing a strategy for the experimental implementation of our results. We discuss the shape of the pulses, their spectrum and symmetry.

id: 1306.6904
title: Prospective applications of optical quantum memories
authors: Felix Bussieres, Nicolas Sangouard, Mikael Afzelius, Hugues de Riedmatten, Christoph Simon, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: Review paper. Comments are welcome!
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 60, 1519 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6904
abstract: An optical quantum memory can be broadly defined as a system capable of storing a useful quantum state through interaction with light at optical frequencies. During the last decade, intense research was devoted to their development, mostly with the aim of fulfilling the requirements of their first two applications, namely quantum repeaters and linear-optical quantum computation. A better understanding of those requirements then motivated several different experimental approaches. Along the way, other exciting applications emerged, such as as quantum metrology, single-photon detection, tests of the foundations of quantum physics, device-independent quantum information processing and nonlinear processing of quantum information. Here we review several prospective applications of optical quantum memories with a focus on recent experimental achievements pertaining to these applications. This review highlights that optical quantum memories have become essential for the development of optical quantum information processing.

id: 1306.6912
title: New Developments in Time-Independent Quantum-Mechanical Perturbation Theory
authors: Gerald I. Kerley
comments: A narrated presentation on this topic can be viewed at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6912
abstract: This report discusses two new ideas for using perturbation methods to solve the time-independent Schr\"odinger equation. The first concept begins with rewriting the perturbation equations in a form that is closely related to matrix diagonalization methods. That allows a simple, compact derivation of the standard (Rayleigh-Schr\"odinger) equations. But it also leads to a new iterative solution method that is not based on the usual power series expansion. The iterative method can also be used when the unperturbed system is two-fold degenerate. The second concept is quite different from the first but compatible with it. It is based on the fact that one can replace the true Hamiltonian with a synthetic Hamiltonian having the same eigenvalues. This approach allows one to cancel part of the perturbation and to reduce the size of the off-diagonal matrix elements, giving better convergence of the series. These methods are illustrated by application to three perturbed harmonic oscillator problems--a 1-D oscillator with a linear perturbation, a 1-D oscillator with a quartic perturbation, and a perturbed 2-D oscillator, which involves degenerate states. The iterative method and the synthetic Hamiltonian method are shown to give significantly better results than the standard method.

id: 1306.6934
title: Universal time-fluctuations in near-critical out-of-equilibrium quantum dynamics
authors: Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 5+2 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. E 89, 022101 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6934
abstract: Out of equilibrium quantum systems, on top of quantum fluctuations, display complex temporal patterns. Such time fluctuations are generically exponentially small in the system volume and can be therefore safely ignored in most of the cases. However, if one consider small quench experiments, time fluctuations can be greatly enhanced. We show that time fluctuations may become stronger than other forms of equilibrium quantum fluctuations if the quench is performed close to a critical point. For sufficiently relevant operators the full distribution function of dynamically evolving observable expectation values, becomes a universal function uniquely characterized by the critical exponents and the boundary conditions. At regular points of the phase diagram and for non sufficiently relevant operators the distribution becomes Gaussian. Our predictions are confirmed by an explicit calculation on the quantum Ising model.

id: 1306.0164
title: Waveguide integrated low noise NbTiN nanowire single-photon detectors with milli-Hz dark count rate
authors: Carsten Schuck, Wolfram H. P. Pernice, Hong X. Tang
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Sci. Rep. 3, 1893 (2013)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0164
abstract: Superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors are an ideal match for integrated quantum photonic circuits due to their high detection efficiency for telecom wavelength photons. Quantum optical technology also requires single-photon detection with low dark count rate and high timing accuracy. Here we present very low noise superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors based on NbTiN thin films patterned directly on top of Si3N4 waveguides. We systematically investigate a large variety of detector designs and characterize their detection noise performance. Milli-Hz dark count rates are demonstrated over the entire operating range of the nanowire detectors which also feature low timing jitter. The ultra-low dark count rate, in combination with the high detection efficiency inherent to our traveling wave detector geometry, gives rise to a measured noise equivalent power at the 10^(-20) W/Hz^(1/2) level.

id: 1306.0172
title: Dynamical quantum correlations of Ising models on an arbitrary lattice and their resilience to decoherence
authors: Michael Foss-Feig, Kaden R A Hazzard, John J Bollinger, Ana Maria Rey, Charles W Clark
comments: 34 pages, 11 pages
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 113008 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0172
abstract: Ising models, and the physical systems described by them, play a central role in generating entangled states for use in quantum metrology and quantum information. In particular, ultracold atomic gases, trapped ion systems, and Rydberg atoms realize long-ranged Ising models, which even in the absence of a transverse field can give rise to highly non-classical dynamics and long-range quantum correlations. In the first part of this paper, we present a detailed theoretical framework for studying the dynamics of such systems driven (at time t=0) into arbitrary unentangled non-equilibrium states, thus greatly extending and unifying the work of Ref. [1]. Specifically, we derive exact expressions for closed-time-path ordered correlation functions, and use these to study experimentally relevant observables, e.g. Bloch vector and spin-squeezing dynamics. In the second part, these correlation functions are then used to derive closed-form expressions for the dynamics of arbitrary spin-spin correlation functions in the presence of both T_1 (spontaneous spin relaxation/excitation) and T_2 (dephasing) type decoherence processes. Even though the decoherence is local, our solution reveals that the competition between Ising dynamics and T_1 decoherence gives rise to an emergent non-local dephasing effect, thereby drastically amplifying the degradation of quantum correlations. In addition to identifying the mechanism of this deleterious effect, our solution points toward a scheme to eliminate it via measurement-based coherent feedback.

id: 1306.0229
title: Characterization of the degree of Musical non-Markovianity
authors: Maria Mannone, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0229
abstract: Recently, as an aid for musical analysis, in computational musicology mathematical and informatics tools have been developed to quantitatively characterize some aspects of musical compositions. To a musical composition can be attributed by ear a certain amount of memory. This results associated to repetitions and similarities of the patterns in musical scores. To higher variations, a lower amount of memory is perceived. However musical memory of a score has never been quantitatively defined. Here we aim to give such a measure following an approach similar to that used in Physics to quantify the memory (non-Markovianity) of open quantum systems. We have applied this measure to some existing musical compositions, showing that the results obtained via this quantifier agree with what one expects by ear. The Musical non-Markovianity quantifier can thus be used as a new tool that can aid quantitative musical analysis.

id: 1306.0250
title: Application of the Space-Time Method to Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage on the Simple Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Xingjun Zhang, Charles A. Weatherford
comments: 25 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0250
abstract: The space-time method is applied to a model system-the Simple Harmonic Oscillator in a laser field to simulate the Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage (STIRAP) process. The Space-Time method is a computational theory first introduced by Weatherford et. al. to solve Time-Dependent Systems with one boundary value and applied to electron spin system with invariant Hamiltonian [Journal of Molecular Structure {\bf 592} 47]. The implementation in the present work provides an efficient and general way to solve the Time-Dependent Schr{\"o}dinger Equation and can be applied to multi-state systems. The algorithm for simulating the Simple Harmonic Oscillator STIRAP can be applied to solve STIRAP problems for complex systems.

id: 1306.0320
title: Two-dimensional crystals of Rydberg excitations in a resonantly driven lattice gas
authors: David Petrosyan
comments: modified, expanded ms
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043431 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0320
abstract: The competition between resonant optical excitation of Rydberg states of atoms and their strong, long-range van der Waals interaction results in spatial ordering of Rydberg excitations in a two-dimensional lattice gas, as observed in a recent experiment of Schau{\ss} et al. [Nature 491, 87 (2012)]. Here we use semiclassical Monte Carlo simulations to obtain stationary states for hundreds of atoms in finite-size lattices. We show the formation of regular spatial structures of Rydberg excitations in a system of increasing size, and find highly sub-Poissonian distribution of the number of Rydberg excitations characterized by a large negative value of the Mandel Q parameter which is nearly independent of the system size.

id: 1306.0402
title: Microwave sidebands for laser cooling by direct modulation of a tapered amplifier
authors: Jan Mahnke, Sascha Kulas, Ilka Geisel, Stefan J?llenbeck, Wolfgang Ertmer, Carsten Klempt
comments: 
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 84, 063110 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0402
abstract: Laser cooling of atoms usually necessitates several laser frequencies. Alkaline atoms, for example, are cooled by two lasers with a frequency difference in the Gigahertz range. This gap cannot be closed with simple shifting techniques. Here, we present a method of generating sidebands at 6.6 GHz by modulating the current of a tapered amplifier which is seeded by an unmodulated master laser. The sidebands enable trapping of 1.1*10^9 Rubidium 87 atoms in a chip-based magneto-optical trap. Compared to the direct modulation of the master laser, this method allows for an easy implementation, a fast adjustment over a wide frequency range and the simultaneous extraction of unmodulated light for manipulation and detection. The low power consumption, small size and applicability for multiple frequencies benefits a wide range of applications, reaching from atom-based mobile sensors to the laser cooling of molecules.

id: 1306.0422
title: Quantum-statistics-induced flow patterns in driven ideal Fermi gases
authors: Marco Beria, Yasir Iqbal, Massimiliano Di Ventra, Markus M¨¹ller
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043611 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0422
abstract: While classical or quantum interacting liquids become turbulent under sufficiently strong driving, it is not obvious what flow pattern an ideal quantum gas develops under similar conditions. Unlike classical noninteracting particles which exhibit rather trivial flow, ideal fermions have to satisfy the exclusion principle, which acts as a form of collective repulsion. We thus study the flow of an ideal Fermi gas as it is driven out of a narrow orifice of width comparable to the Fermi wavelength, employing both a microcanonical approach to transport, and solving a Lindblad equation for Markovian driving leads. Both methods are in good agreement and predict an outflowing current density with a complex microscopic pattern of vorticity in the steady state. Applying a bias of the order of the chemical potential results in a short-range correlated antiferromagnetic vorticity pattern, corresponding to local moments of the order of a tenth of a magneton, $e\hbar/2m$, if the fermions are charged. The latter may be detectable by magnetosensitive spectroscopy in strongly driven cold gases (atoms) or clean electronic nanostructures (electrons).

id: 1306.0426
title: Magnetic Susceptibility and Landau Diamagnetism of Quantum Collisional Maxwellian Plasmas
authors: A. V. Latyshev, A. A. Yushkanov
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1007.0732, arXiv:1305.4835
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0426
abstract: With the use of correct expression of the electric conductivity of quantum collisional plasmas (A. V. Latyshev and A. A. Yushkanov, {\it Transverse electrical conductivity of a quantum collisional plasma in the Mermin approach}. - Theor. and Math. Phys., {\bf 175}(1): 559-569 (2013)) the kinetic description of a magnetic susceptibility is obtained and the formula for calculation of Landau diamagnetism is deduced.

id: 1306.0482
title: Incorporating gravity into trace dynamics: the induced gravitational action
authors: Stephen L. Adler
comments: Latex; 31 pages; further comments on the zero energy condition in v2; minor revisions in v3 -- v5; v6 has corrections to Eqs. (60) and (61) that will appear as an Erratum to the published version: Class. Quantum Grav. 30 (2013) 195015
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 30 (2013) 195015, Corrigendum 239501
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0482
abstract: We study the incorporation of gravity into the trace dynamics framework for classical matrix-valued fields, from which we have proposed that quantum field theory is the emergent thermodynamics, with state vector reduction arising from fluctuation corrections to this thermodynamics. We show that the metric must be incorporated as a classical, not a matrix-valued, field, with the source for gravity the exactly covariantly conserved trace stress-energy tensor of the matter fields. We then study corrections to the classical gravitational action induced by the dynamics of the matrix-valued matter fields, by examining the average over the trace dynamics canonical ensemble of the matter field action, in the presence of a general background metric. Using constraints from global Weyl scaling and three-space general coordinate transformations, we show that to zeroth order in derivatives of the metric, the induced gravitational action in the preferred rest frame of the trace dynamics canonical ensemble must have the form $$ \Delta S=\int d^4x (^{(4)}g)^{1/2}(g_{00})^{-2} A\big(g_{0i} g_{0j} g^{ij}/g_{00}, D^ig_{ij}D^j/g_{00}, g_{0i}D^i/g_{00}\big), $$ with $D^i$ defined through the co-factor expansion of $^{(4)}g$ by $^{(4)}g/{^{(3)}g}=g_{00}+g_{0i}D^i$, and with $A(x,y,z)$ a general function of its three arguments. This action has "chameleon-like" properties: For the Robertson-Walker cosmological metric, it {\it exactly} reduces to a cosmological constant, but for the Schwarzschild metric it diverges as $(1-2M/r)^{-2}$ near the Schwarzschild radius, indicating that it will substantially affect the horizon structure.

id: 1306.0518
title: The Casimir effect in a topologically closed Minkowski spacetime
authors: Alex Venditti, Charles Dyer
comments: There was a crucial error in solving for the wave modes which leads to an incorrect conclusion
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0518
abstract: Results concerning the Casimir effect in a topologically closed Minkowski spacetime.

id: 1306.0522
title: Spin flip of electron in static electric fields
authors: Richard T. Hammond
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0522
abstract: The effects on the spin state of an electron in a time independent electric field are examined. The probability of spin flipping is calculated, and other effects are studied using the minimally coupled Dirac equation.

id: 1306.0526
title: Modulation of localized solutions for the Schr?dinger equation with logarithm nonlinearity
authors: L. Cala?a, A. T. Avelar, D. Bazeia, W. B. Cardoso
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Commun Nonlinear Sci Numer Simulat 19 (2014) 2928
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0526
abstract: We investigate the presence of localized analytical solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation with logarithm nonlinearity. After including inhomogeneities in the linear and nonlinear coefficients, we use similarity transformation to convert the nonautonomous nonlinear equation into an autonomous one, which we solve analytically. In particular, we study stability of the analytical solutions numerically.

id: 1306.0540
title: Stability of topologically-protected quantum computing proposals as seen through spin glasses
authors: Helmut G. Katzgraber, Ruben S. Andrist
comments: Proceedings of the International Meeting on "Inference, Computation, and Spin Glasses," Sapporo, Japan; 16 pages, 12 figures, loads of eye candy
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 473 012019 (2013)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0540
abstract: Sensitivity to noise makes most of the current quantum computing schemes prone to error and nonscalable, allowing only for small proof-of-principle devices. Topologically-protected quantum computing aims at solving this problem by encoding quantum bits and gates in topological properties of the hardware medium that are immune to noise that does not impact the entire system at once. There are different approaches to achieve topological stability or active error correction, ranging from quasiparticle braidings to spin models and topological color codes. The stability of these proposals against noise can be quantified by their error threshold. This figure of merit can be computed by mapping the problem onto complex statistical-mechanical spin-glass models with local disorder on nontrival lattices that can have many-body interactions and are sometimes described by lattice gauge theories. The error threshold for a given source of error then represents the point in the temperature-disorder phase diagram where a stable symmetry-broken phase vanishes. An overview of the techniques used to estimate the error thresholds is given, as well as a summary of recent results on the stability of different topologically-protected quantum computing schemes to different error sources.

id: 1306.0546
title: A Gaussian refinement of the Lieb-Robinson bound
authors: Elliott H. Lieb, Anna Vershynina
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0546
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors because of an error in the proof. We can, however, prove a weaker spatial fall-off that is still superlinear, namely exp[-x log x].

id: 1306.0613
title: Optically Mediated Hybridization Between Two Mechanical Modes
authors: A. B. Shkarin, N. E. Flowers-Jacobs, S. W. Hoch, A. D. Kashkanova, C. Deutsch, J. Reichel, J. G. E. Harris
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures (including supplemental material); the following article has been accepted by Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0613
abstract: In this paper we study a system consisting of two nearly degenerate mechanical modes that couple to a single mode of an optical cavity. We show that this coupling leads to nearly complete (99.5%) hybridization of the two mechanical modes into a bright mode that experiences strong optomechanical interactions and a dark mode that experiences almost no optomechanical interactions. We use this hybridization to transfer energy between the mechanical modes with 40% efficiency.

id: 1306.0614
title: Multiple time scale blinking in InAs quantum dot single-photon sources
authors: Marcelo Davanco, C. Stephen Hellberg, Serkan Ates, Antonio Badolato, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 161303(R) (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0614
abstract: We use photon correlation measurements to study blinking in single, epitaxially-grown self-assembled InAs quantum dots situated in circular Bragg grating and microdisk cavities. The normalized second-order correlation function g(2)(\tau) is studied across eleven orders of magnitude in time, and shows signatures of blinking over timescales ranging from tens of nanoseconds to tens of milliseconds. The g(2)(\tau) data is fit to a multi-level system rate equation model that includes multiple non-radiating (dark) states, from which radiative quantum yields significantly less than 1 are obtained. This behavior is observed even in situations for which a direct histogramming analysis of the emission time-trace data produces inconclusive results.

id: 1306.0617
title: Relation of exact Gaussian basis methods to the dephasing representation: Theory and application to time-resolved electronic spectra
authors: Miroslav ?ulc, Henar Hern¨¢ndez, Todd J. Mart¨ªnez, Ji?¨ª Van¨ª?ek
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys.139, 034112 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0617
abstract: We recently showed that the Dephasing Representation (DR) provides an efficient tool for computing ultrafast electronic spectra and that further acceleration is possible with cellularization [M. \v{S}ulc and J. Van\'i\v{c}ek, Mol. Phys. 110, 945 (2012)]. Here we focus on increasing the accuracy of this approximation by first implementing an exact Gaussian basis method, which benefits from the accuracy of quantum dynamics and efficiency of classical dynamics. Starting from this exact method, the DR is derived together with ten other methods for computing time-resolved spectra with intermediate accuracy and efficiency. These methods include the Gaussian DR, an exact generalization of the DR, in which trajectories are replaced by communicating frozen Gaussian basis functions evolving classically with an average Hamiltonian. The newly obtained methods are tested numerically on time correlation functions and time-resolved stimulated emission spectra in the harmonic potential, pyrazine S0/S1 model, and quartic oscillator. Numerical results confirm that both the Gaussian basis method and the Gaussian DR increase the accuracy of the DR. Surprisingly, in chaotic systems the Gaussian DR can outperform the presumably more accurate Gaussian basis method, in which the two bases are evolved separately.

id: 1306.0670
title: Klein tunneling of two correlated bosons
authors: S. Longhi, G. Della Valle
comments: 10 pages; Spring select paper; highlighted in: Science Daily, 29 May 2013 and in phys.org May 29, 2013
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 86, 231 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0670
abstract: Reflection of two strongly interacting bosons with long-rage interaction hopping on a one-dimensional lattice scattered off by a potential step is theoretically investigated in the framework of the extended Hubbard model. The analysis shows that, in the presence of unbalanced on-site and nearest-neighbor site interaction, two strongly correlated bosons forming a bound particle state can penetrate a high barrier, despite the single particle can not. Such a phenomenon is analogous to one-dimensional Klein tunneling of a relativistic massive Dirac particle across a potential step.

id: 1306.0721
title: Improving the accuracy and efficiency of time-resolved electronic spectra calculations: Cellular dephasing representation with a prefactor
authors: Eduardo Zambrano, Miroslav Sulc, Jiri Vanicek
comments: submitted
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics, vol. 139, p. 054109 (2013)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0721
abstract: Time-resolved electronic spectra can be obtained as the Fourier transform of a special type of time correlation function known as fidelity amplitude, which, in turn, can be evaluated approximately and efficiently with the dephasing representation. Here we improve both the accuracy of this approximation---with an amplitude correction derived from the phase-space propagator---and its efficiency---with an improved cellular scheme employing inverse Weierstrass transform and optimal scaling of the cell size. We demonstrate the advantages of the new methodology by computing dispersed time-resolved stimulated emission spectra in the harmonic potential, pyrazine, and the NCO molecule. In contrast, we show that in strongly chaotic systems such as the quartic oscillator the original dephasing representation is more appropriate than either the cellular or prefactor-corrected methods.

id: 1306.0782
title: From Coherent Modes to Turbulence and Granulation of Trapped Gases
authors: V.S. Bagnato, V.I. Yukalov
comments: Latex file, 25 pages, 4 figures
journal: Prog. Opt. Sci. Photon. 1 (2013) 377-401
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0782
abstract: The process of exciting the gas of trapped bosons from an equilibrium initial state to strongly nonequilibrium states is described as a procedure of symmetry restoration caused by external perturbations. Initially, the trapped gas is cooled down to such low temperatures, when practically all atoms are in Bose-Einstein condensed state, which implies the broken global gauge symmetry. Excitations are realized either by imposing external alternating fields, modulating the trapping potential and shaking the cloud of trapped atoms, or it can be done by varying atomic interactions by means of Feshbach resonance techniques. Gradually increasing the amount of energy pumped into the system, which is realized either by strengthening the modulation amplitude or by increasing the excitation time, produces a series of nonequilibrium states, with the growing fraction of atoms for which the gauge symmetry is restored. In this way, the initial equilibrium system, with the broken gauge symmetry and all atoms condensed, can be excited to the state, where all atoms are in the normal state, with completely restored gauge symmetry. In this process, the system, starting from the regular superfluid state, passes through the states of vortex superfluid, turbulent superfluid, heterophase granular fluid, to the state of normal chaotic fluid in turbulent regime. Both theoretical and experimental studies are presented.

id: 1306.0791
title: Symmetry properties and spectra of the two-dimensional quantum compass model
authors: Wojciech Brzezicki, Andrzej M. Ole?
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures; accepted for publication in Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 214421 (2013) [13 pages]
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0791
abstract: We use exact symmetry properties of the two-dimensional quantum compass model to derive nonequivalent invariant subspaces in the energy spectra of $L\times L$ clusters up to L=6. The symmetry allows one to reduce the original $L\times L$ compass cluster to the $(L-1)\times (L-1)$ one with modified interactions. This step is crucial and enables: (i) exact diagonalization of the $6\times 6$ quantum compass cluster, and (ii) finding the specific heat for clusters up to L=6, with two characteristic energy scales. We investigate the properties of the ground state and the first excited states and present extrapolation of the excitation energy with increasing system size. Our analysis provides physical insights into the nature of nematic order realized in the quantum compass model at finite temperature. We suggest that the quantum phase transition at the isotropic interaction point is second order with some admixture of the discontinuous transition, as indicated by the entropy, the overlap between two types of nematic order (on horizontal and vertical bonds) and the existence of the critical exponent. Extrapolation of the specific heat to the $L\to\infty$ limit suggests the classical nature of the quantum compass model and high degeneracy of the ground state with nematic order.

id: 1306.0826
title: Most efficient quantum thermoelectric at finite power output
authors: Robert S. Whitney
comments: Final version (5 pages). The previous version's appendix has been removed - it will appear in a separate publication
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 130601 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0826
abstract: Machines are only Carnot efficient if they are reversible, but then their power output is vanishingly small. Here we ask, what is the maximum efficiency of an irreversible device with finite power output? We use a nonlinear scattering theory to answer this question for thermoelectric quantum systems; heat engines or refrigerators consisting of nanostructures or molecules that exhibit a Peltier effect. We find that quantum mechanics places an upper bound on both power output, and on the efficiency at any finite power. The upper bound on efficiency equals Carnot efficiency at zero power output, but decays with increasing power output. It is intrinsically quantum (wavelength dependent), unlike Carnot efficiency. This maximum efficiency occurs when the system lets through all particles in a certain energy window, but none at other energies. A physical implementation of this is discussed, as is the suppression of efficiency by a phonon heat flow.

id: 1306.0860
title: Quantum Systems and Resolvent Algebras
authors: Detlev Buchholz, Hendrik Grundling
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure; survey article; v2 figure improved; v3 reference added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0860
abstract: This survey article is concerned with the modeling of the kinematical structure of quantum systems in an algebraic framework which eliminates certain conceptual and computational difficulties of the conventional approaches. Relying on the Heisenberg picture it is based on the resolvents of the basic canonically conjugate operators and covers finite and infinite quantum systems. The resulting C*-algebras, the resolvent algebras, have many desirable properties. On one hand they encode specific information about the dimension of the respective quantum system and have the mathematically comfortable feature of being nuclear, and for finite dimensional systems they are even postliminal. This comes along with a surprisingly simple structure of their representations. On the other hand, they are a convenient framework for the study of interacting as well as constrained quantum systems since they allow the direct application of C*-algebraic methods which often simplify the analysis. Some pertinent facts are illustrated by instructive examples.

id: 1306.0866
title: Investigations of the torque anomaly in an annular sector. I. Global calculations, scalar case
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Fardin Kheirandish, Prachi Parashar, E. K. Abalo, Stephen A. Fulling, Jeffrey D. Bouas, Hamilton Carter, Klaus Kirsten
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 025039 (11pp) (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0866
abstract: In an attempt to understand a recently discovered torque anomaly in quantum field theory with boundaries, we calculate the Casimir energy and torque of a scalar field subject to Dirichlet boundary conditions on an annular sector defined by two coaxial cylinders intercut by two planes through the axis. In this model the particularly troublesome divergence at the cylinder axis does not appear, but new divergences associated with the curved boundaries are introduced. All the divergences associated with the volume, the surface area, the corners, and the curvature are regulated by point separation either in the direction of the axis of the cylinder or in the (Euclidean) time; the full divergence structure is isolated, and the remaining finite energy and torque are extracted. Formally, only the regulator based on axis splitting yields the expected balance between energy and torque. Because of the logarithmic curvature divergences, there is an ambiguity in the linear dependence of the energy on the wedge angle; if the terms constant and linear in this angle are removed by a process of renormalization, the expected torque-energy balance is preserved.

id: 1306.0872
title: Cavity optomechanics with synthetic Landau levels of ultra cold Fermi gas
authors: Bikash Padhi, Sankalpa Ghosh
comments: Minor revisions: Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letter, Vol. 111, 043603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0872
abstract: Ultra cold fermionic atoms placed in a synthetic magnetic field arrange themselves in Landau levels. We theoretically study the optomechanical interaction between the light field and collective excitations of such fermionic atoms in synthetic magnetic field by placing them in side a Fabry Perot cavity. We derive the effective hamiltonian for particle hole excitations from a filled Landau level using a bosonization technique and obtain an expression for the cavity transmission spectrum. Using this we show that the cavity transmission spectrum demonstrates cold atom analogue of Subnikov de Hass oscillation in electronic condensed matter systems. We discuss the experimental consequences for this oscillation for such system and the related optical bistability.

id: 1306.0881
title: Approximations of quantum-graph vertex couplings by singularly scaled potentials
authors: Pavel Exner, Stepan S. Manko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0881
abstract: We investigate the limit properties of a family of Schr\"odinger operators of the form $H_\varepsilon= -\frac{\mathrm{d}^2}{\mathrm{d}x^2}+ \frac{\lambda(\varepsilon)}{\varepsilon^2}Q \big(\frac{x}{\varepsilon}\big)$ acting on $n$-edge star graphs with Kirchhoff conditions imposed at the vertex. The real-valued potential $Q$ is supposed to have compact support and $\lambda(\cdot)$ to be analytic around $\varepsilon=0$ with $\lambda(0)=1$. We show that if the operator has a zero-energy resonance of order $m$ for $\varepsilon=1$ and $\lambda(1)=1$, in the limit $\varepsilon\to 0$ one obtains the Laplacian with a vertex coupling depending on $1+\frac12 m(2n-m+1)$ parameters. We prove the norm-resolvent convergence as well as the convergence of the corresponding on-shell scattering matrices. The obtained vertex couplings are of scale-invariant type provided $\lambda'(0)=0$; otherwise the scattering matrix depends on energy and the scaled potential becomes asymptotically opaque in the low-energy limit.

id: 1306.0912
title: Manipulation of Molecules with Electromagnetic Fields
authors: Mikhail Lemeshko, Roman V. Krems, John M. Doyle, Sabre Kais
comments: 853 references, 39 pages. Review article for the special issue "Manipulation of Molecules with Electromagnetic Fields", edited by M. Lemeshko, R. Krems, J. Doyle, and S. Kais. A few minor corrections are made compared to the journal version
journal: Molecular Physics 111, 1648 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0912
abstract: The goal of the present article is to review the major developments that have led to the current understanding of molecule-field interactions and experimental methods for manipulating molecules with electromagnetic fields. Molecule-field interactions are at the core of several, seemingly distinct, areas of molecular physics. This is reflected in the organization of this article, which includes sections on Field control of molecular beams, External field traps for cold molecules, Control of molecular orientation and molecular alignment, Manipulation of molecules by non-conservative forces, Ultracold molecules and ultracold chemistry, Controlled many-body phenomena, Entanglement of molecules and dipole arrays, and Stability of molecular systems in high-frequency super-intense laser fields. The article contains 853 references.

id: 1306.0937
title: The paradox of the many-state catastrophe of fundamental limits and the three-state conjecture
authors: Shoresh Shafei, Mark G. Kuzyk
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0937
abstract: The calculation of the fundamental limits of nonlinear susceptibilities posits that when a quantum system has a nonlinear response at the fundamental limit, only three energy eigenstates contribute to the first and second hyperpolarizability. This is called the three-level ansatz and is the only unproven assumption in the theory of fundamental limits. All calculations that are based on direct solution of the Schrodinger equation yield intrinsic hyperpolarizabilities less than 0.709 and intrinsic second hyperpolarizabilities less than 0.6. In this work, we show that relaxing the three-level ansatz and allowing an arbitrary number of states to contribute leads to divergence of the optimized intrinsic hyperpolarizability in the limit of an infinite number of states - what we call the many-state catastrophe. This is not surprising given that the divergent systems are most likely not derivable from the Schrodinger equation, yet obey the sum rules. The sums rules are the second ingredient in limit theory, and apply also to systems with more general Hamiltonians. These exotic Hamiltonians may not model any real systems found in nature. Indeed, a class of transition moments and energies that come form the sum rules do not have a corresponding Hamiltonian that is expressible in differential form. In this work, we show that the three-level ansatz acts as a constraint that excludes many of the nonphysical Hamiltonians and prevents the intrinsic hyperpolarizability from diverging. We argue that this implies that the true fundamental limit is smaller than previously calculated. Since the three-level ansatz does not lead to the largest possible nonlinear response, contrary to its assertion, we propose the intriguing possibility that the three-level ansatz is true for any system that obeys the Schrodinger equation, yet this assertion may be unprovable.

id: 1306.0945
title: Notes on extremality of the Choi map
authors: Kil-Chan Ha
comments: 12 pages
journal: Linear Algebra and Its Applications, 439/10, 3156-3165 (2013)
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0945
abstract: It is widely believed that the Choi map generates an extremal ray in the cone $\mathcal P(M_3)$ of all positive linear maps between $C^*$-algebra $M_3$ of all $n\times n$ matrices over the complex field. But the only proven fact is that the Choi map generates the extremal ray in the cone of all positive linear map preserving all real symmetric $3\times 3$ matrices. In this note, we show that the Choi map is indeed extremal in the cone $\mathcal P(M_3)$. We also clarify some misclaims about the correspondence between positive semi-definite biquadratic real forms and postive linear maps, and discuss possible positive linear maps which coincide with the Choi map on symmetric matrices.

id: 1306.0978
title: Complex Lines with Restricted Angles
authors: Aidan Roy
comments: Ph. D. thesis from the University of Waterloo, originally published in 2005. 109 pages
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0978
abstract: This thesis is a study of large sets of unit vectors in $\cx^n$ such that the absolute value of their standard inner products takes on only a small number of values. We begin with bounds: what is the maximal size of a set of lines with only a given set of angles? We rederive a series of upper bounds originally due to Delsarte, Goethals and Seidel, but in a novel way using only zonal polynomials and linear algebra. In the process we get some new results about complex $t$-designs and also some new characterizations of tightness. Next we consider constructions. We describe some generic constructions using linear codes and Cayley graphs, and then move to two specific instances of the problem: mutually unbiased bases and equiangular lines. Both cases are motivated by problems in quantum computing, although they have applications in digital communications as well. Mutually unbiased bases are collections of orthonormal bases with a constant angle between vectors from different bases. We construct some maximal sets in prime-power dimensions, originally due to Calderbank, Cameron, Kantor and Seidel, but again in a novel way using relative difference sets or distance-regular antipodal covers. We also detail their numerous relations to other combinatorial objects, including symplectic spreads, orthogonal decompositions of Lie algebras, and spin models. Peripherally, we discuss mutually unbiased bases in small dimensions that are not prime powers and in real vector spaces. Equiangular lines are collections of vectors with only one angle between them. We use difference sets from finite geometry to construct equiangular lines: these sets do not have maximal size, but they are maximal with respect to having all entries of the same absolute value. We also include some negative results about constructions of maximal sets in large dimensions.

id: 1306.0982
title: Quantum entanglement entropy and classical mutual information in long-range harmonic oscillators
authors: M. Ghasemi Nezhadhaghighi, M. A. Rajabpour
comments: 21 pages, 26 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 045426 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.0982
abstract: We study different aspects of quantum von Neumann and R\'enyi entanglement entropy of one dimensional long-range harmonic oscillators that can be described by well-defined non-local field theories. We show that the entanglement entropy of one interval with respect to the rest changes logarithmically with the number of oscillators inside the subsystem. This is true also in the presence of different boundary conditions. We show that the coefficients of the logarithms coming from different boundary conditions can be reduced to just two different universal coefficients. We also study the effect of the mass and temperature on the entanglement entropy of the system in different situations. The universality of our results is also confirmed by changing different parameters in the coupled harmonic oscillators. We also show that more general interactions coming from general singular Toeplitz matrices can be decomposed to our long-range harmonic oscillators. Despite the long-range nature of the couplings we show that the area law is valid in two dimensions and the universal logarithmic terms appear if we consider subregions with sharp corners. Finally we study analytically different aspects of the mutual information such as its logarithmic dependence to the subsystem, effect of mass and influence of the boundary. We also generalize our results in this case to general singular Toeplitz matrices and higher dimensions.

id: 1306.1011
title: Spin-Echo-Based Magnetometry with Spinor Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Yujiro Eto, Hayato Ikeda, Hirosuke Suzuki, Sho Hasegawa, Yasushi Tomiyama, Sawako Sekine, Mark Sadgrove, Takuya Hirano
comments: 5 pages, 5figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1011
abstract: We demonstrate detection of a weak alternate-current magnetic field by application of the spin echo technique to F = 2 Bose-Einstein condensates. A magnetic field sensitivity of 12 pT/Hz^1/2 is attained with the atom number of 5*10^3 at spatial resolution of 99 \mu m^2. Our observations indicate magnetic field fluctuations synchronous with the power supply line frequency. We show that this noise is greatly suppressed by application of a reverse phase magnetic field. Our technique is useful in order to create a stable magnetic field environment, which is an important requirement for atomic experiments which require a weak bias magnetic field.

id: 1306.1214
title: Determination of all pure quantum states from a minimal number of observables
authors: Damien Mondragon, Vladislav Voroninski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1214
abstract: Ron Wright conjectured circa 1978 that there exist three observables $A_1, A_2, A_3$ which uniquely determine any pure state $x \in \mathbb{C}P^{n-1}$. It is now known that Wright's conjecture is false due to general obstructions to embedding $\mathbb{C}P^{n}$ into Euclidean space and it is natural to consider the minimal number of observables required for informational completeness. We prove in this paper that for any positive integer $n$, the map $x \in \mathbb{C}^n/\mathbb{S}^1 \mapsto \{\left|\langle x, z_i \rangle \right|^2\}_{i=1}^{4n} \in \mathbb{R}^{4n}$, where $z_i$ are the rows of four generic $n\times n$ unitary matrices, is injective, yielding a family of quadratic embeddings of $\mathbb{C}P^{n-1}$ into $\mathbb{R}^{4(n-1)}$. In particular, this implies that four generic observables determine any pure state. This result is sharp for $n \geq 6$.

id: 1306.1276
title: Directional Uncertainty Principle for Quaternion Fourier Transform
authors: Eckhard Hitzer
comments: 14 pages
journal: Advances in Applied Clifford Algebras, Volume 20, Issue 2 , pp 271-284 (2010)
subjects: Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1276
abstract: This paper derives a new directional uncertainty principle for quaternion valued functions subject to the quaternion Fourier transformation. This can be generalized to establish directional uncertainty principles in Clifford geometric algebras with quaternion subalgebras. We demonstrate this with the example of a directional spacetime algebra function uncertainty principle related to multivector wave packets.

id: 1306.1308
title: Phase-Shift Plateaus in the Sagnac Effect for Matter Waves
authors: M. C. Kandes, R. Carretero-Gonzalez, M. W. J. Bromley
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, 3 videos available as ancillary downloads. v2 tweak of abstract
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1308
abstract: We simulate ultracold Sagnac atom interferometers using quantum-mechanical matter wavepackets, e.g. Bose-Einstein condensates, that counter-propagate within a rotating ring-trap. We find that the accumulation of the relative phase difference between wavepackets, i.e. the matter wave Sagnac effect, is manifested as discrete phase jumps. These plateaus result from three effects; that the atoms should be initially trapped at rest with respect to the rotating frame, that they counter-propagate with the same group velocities in the rotating frame, and that the imaging is performed in the rotating frame. We show that the plateaus persist in the presence of nonlinear atom-atom interactions, and in atoms undergoing various rotations, and thus will occur during matter wavepacket experiments. We also introduce the simplest possible Sagnac atom interferometry scheme which relies on wavepacket dispersion around a ring-trap.

id: 1306.1330
title: Large-Amplitude Superexchange of High-Spin Fermions in Optical Lattices
authors: Ole J¨¹rgensen, Jannes Heinze, Dirk-S?ren L¨¹hmann
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 113017 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1330
abstract: We show that fermionic high-spin systems with spin-changing collisions allow to monitor superexchange processes in optical superlattices with large amplitudes and strong spin fluctuations. By investigating the non-equilibrium dynamics, we find a superexchange dominated regime at weak interactions. The underlying mechanism is driven by an emerging tunneling-energy gap in shallow few-well potentials. As a consequence, the interaction-energy gap that is expected to occur only for strong interactions in deep lattices is reestablished. By tuning the optical lattice depth, a crossover between two regimes with negligible particle number fluctuations is found: first, the common regime with vanishing spin-fluctuations in deep lattices and, second, a novel regime with strong spin fluctuations in shallow lattices. We discuss the possible experimental realization with ultracold 40K atoms and observable quantities in double wells and two-dimensional plaquettes.

id: 1306.1353
title: Light transmission through and its complete stoppage in an ultra slow wave optical medium
authors: Ranjith V., N. Kumar
comments: (single-column 5pages PDF). Simple class-room phenomenological model of stopped light. Comments most welcome
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1353
abstract: Light Wave transmission -- its compression, amplification, and the optical energy storage -- in an Ultra Slow Wave Medium (USWM) is studied analytically. Our phenomenological treatment is based entirely on the continuity equation for the optical energy flux, and the well known distribution-product property of Dirac delta-function. The results so obtained provide a clear understanding of some recent experiments on light transmission and its complete stoppage in an USWM. Keywords : Ultra slow light, stopped light, slow wave medium, EIT.

id: 1306.1396
title: Spin Magnetic Moment and Persistent Orbital Currents in Cylindrical Nanolayer
authors: N.G. Aghekyan, S.M. Amirkhanyan, E.M. Kazaryan, H.A. Sarkisyan
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1396
abstract: Densities of persistent orbital and spin magnetic moment currents of an electron in a cylindrical nanolayer in the presence of external axial magnetic ?eld are considered. For the mentioned current densities analytical expressions are obtained. The conditions when in the system only spin magnetic moment current is present are de?ned. Dependencies of orbital and spin magnetic moment currents on geometrical parameters of nanolayer are derived. It is shown that in the case of layered geometry the dependence of spin magnetic moment current on radial coordinate has a non-monotonic behavior. This is the peculiarity of layered geometry of nanostructure and it is due to the behavior of wave function of the system along the radial direction. Dependent on the directions of the ?eld and orbital rotation of the electron there are de?ned values of radial coordinates when the orbital current disappears. The transition to the case of cylindrical quantum dot is discussed as well.

id: 1306.1416
title: Measuring molecular electric dipoles using trapped atomic ions and ultrafast laser pulses
authors: Jordi Mur-Petit, Juan Jos¨¦ Garc¨ªa-Ripoll
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures. Substantially modified version, with 4 new appendices; matches published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 012504 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1416
abstract: We study a hybrid quantum system composed of an ion and an electric dipole. We show how a trapped ion can be used to measure the small electric field generated by a classical dipole. We discuss the application of this scheme to measure the electric dipole moment of cold polar molecules, whose internal state can be controlled with ultrafast laser pulses, by trapping them in the vicinity of a trapped ion.

id: 1306.1430
title: Large Time Behaviour and Convergence Rate for Non Demolition Quantum Trajectories
authors: Tristan Benoist, Clement Pellegrini
comments: 
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 331, 703-723 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1430
abstract: A quantum system S undergoing continuous time measurement is usually described by a jump-diffusion stochastic differential equation. Such an equation is called a stochastic master equation and its solution is called a quantum trajectory. This solution describes actually the evolution of the state of S. In the context of Quantum Non Demolition measurement, we investigate the large time behavior of this solution. It is rigorously shown that, for large time, this solution behaves as if a direct Von Neumann measurement has been performed at time 0. In particular the solution converges to a random pure state which is related to the wave packet reduction postulate. Using theory of Girsanov transformation, we determine precisely the exponential rate of convergence towards this random state. The important problem of state estimation (used in experiment) is also investigated.

id: 1306.1512
title: Evidence for temperature dependent spin-diffusion as a mechanism of intrinsic flux noise in SQUIDs
authors: T. Lanting, M.H. Amin, A.J. Berkley, C. Rich, S.-F. Chen, S. LaForest, Rogerio de Sousa
comments: Expanded version to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 014503 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1512
abstract: The intrinsic flux noise observed in superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) is thought to be due to the fluctuation of electron spin impurities, but the frequency and temperature dependence observed in experiments do not agree with the usual 1/f models. We present theoretical calculations and experimental measurements of flux noise in rf-SQUID flux qubits that show how these observations, and previous reported measurements, can be interpreted in terms of a spin-diffusion constant that increases with temperature. We fit measurements of flux noise in sixteen devices, taken in the 20-80 mK temperature range, to the spin-diffusion model. This allowed us to extract the spin-diffusion constant and its temperature dependence, suggesting that the spin system is close to a spin-glass phase transition.

id: 1306.1579
title: Mechanism for the suppression of quantum noise at large scales on expanding space
authors: Samuel Colin, Antony Valentini
comments: 39 pages, 5 figures. Minor amendments in v2, to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 88, 103515 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1579
abstract: We present an exactly-solvable model for the suppression of quantum noise at large scales on expanding space. The suppression arises naturally in the de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave formulation of quantum theory, according to which the Born probability rule has a dynamical origin. For a scalar field on a radiation-dominated background we construct the exact solution for the time-evolving wave functional and study properties of the associated field trajectories. It is shown that the time evolution of a field mode on expanding space is mathematically equivalent to that of a standard harmonic oscillator with a 'retarded time' that depends on the wavelength of the mode. In the far super-Hubble regime the equivalent oscillator evolves over only one Hubble time, yielding a simple mechanism whereby relaxation to the Born rule can be suppressed on very large scales. We present numerical simulations illustrating how the expansion of space can cause a retardation of relaxation in the super-Hubble regime. Given these results it is natural to expect a suppression of quantum noise at super-Hubble wavelengths. Such suppression could have taken place in a pre-inflationary era, resulting in a large-scale power deficit in the cosmic microwave background.

id: 1306.1674
title: Superconducting Circuits for Quantum Simulation of Dynamical Gauge Fields
authors: D. Marcos, P. Rabl, E. Rico, P. Zoller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 110504 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1674
abstract: We describe a superconducting-circuit lattice design for the implementation and simulation of dynamical lattice gauge theories. We illustrate our proposal by analyzing a one-dimensional U(1) quantum-link model, where superconducting qubits play the role of matter fields on the lattice sites and the gauge fields are represented by two coupled microwave resonators on each link between neighboring sites. A detailed analysis of a minimal experimental protocol for probing the physics related to string breaking effects shows that despite the presence of decoherence in these systems, distinctive phenomena from condensed-matter and high-energy physics can be visualized with state-of-the-art technology in small superconducting-circuit arrays.

id: 1306.1694
title: The possibility of the non-perturbative an-harmonic correction to Mehler's formula for propagator of the harmonic oscillator
authors: J. Boh¨¢\{v}cik, P. Pre\{v}snajder, P. August\'\{i}n
comments: The detailed "pedagogical" evaluations are postponed to appendices, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1694
abstract: We find the possibility of the non-perturbative an-harmonic correction to Mehler's formula for propagator of the harmonic oscillator. We evaluate the conditional Wiener measure functional integral with a term of the fourth order in the exponent by an alternative method as in the conventional perturbative approach. In contrast to the conventional perturbation theory, we expand into power series the term linear in the integration variable in the exponent. We discuss the case, when the starting point of the propagator is zero. We present the results in analytical form for positive and negative frequency.

id: 1306.1948
title: Link between quantum measurement and the i¦Å term in the QFT propagator
authors: Roman Sverdlov, Luca Bombelli
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 90, 125020 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1948
abstract: Mensky has suggested to account for "continuous measurement" by attaching to a path integral a weight function centered around the classical path that the integral assigns a probability amplitude to. We show that in fact this weight function doesn't have to be viewed as an additional ingredient put in by hand. It can be derived instead from the conventional path integral if the infinitesimal term i\epsilon\ in the propagator is made finite; the "classical trajectory" is proportional to the current.

id: 1306.1980
title: Marcus rate for electron transfer and the Goldilocks principle
authors: Lev Mourokh, Seth Lloyd
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1980
abstract: We examine electron transfer between two quantum states in the presence of a dissipative environment represented as a set of independent harmonic oscillators. For this simple model, the Marcus transfer rates can be derived and we show that these rates are associated to an explicit expression for the environment correlation time. We demonstrate that as a manifestation of the Goldilocks principle, the optimal transfer is governed by a single parameter which is equal to just the inverse root square of two.

id: 1306.2017
title: Symmetries shared by the Poincar¨¦ Group and the Poincar¨¦ Sphere
authors: Young S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: Latex 20 pages, 2 figures, to be published in the Symmetry
journal: Symmetry 5, 233-252 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2017
abstract: Henri Poincar\'e formulated the mathematics of Lorentz transformations, known as the Poincar\'e group. He also formulated the Poincar\'e sphere for polarization optics. It is shown that these two mathematical instruments can be derived from the two-by-two representations of the Lorentz group. Wigner's little groups for internal space-time symmetries are studied in detail. While the particle mass is a Lorentz-invariant quantity, it is shown possible to address its variations in terms of the decoherence mechanism in polarization optics.

id: 1306.2022
title: Metallic Interface Emerging at Magnetic Domain Wall of Antiferromagnetic Insulator---Fate of Extinct Weyl Electrons
authors: Youhei Yamaji, Masatoshi Imada
comments: 26 pages, 10 figures; submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 021035 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2022
abstract: Topological insulators, in contrast to ordinary semiconductors, accompany protected metallic surfaces described by Dirac-type fermions. Here, we theoretically show another emergent two-dimensional metal embedded in the bulk insulator is realized at a magnetic domain wall. The domain wall has long been studied as ingredients of both old-fashioned and leading-edge spintronics. The domain wall here, as an interface of seemingly trivial antiferromagnetic insulators, emergently realizes a functional interface preserved by zero modes with robust two-dimensional Fermi surfaces, where pyrochlore iridium oxides proposed to host condensed-matter realization of Weyl fermions offer such examples at low temperatures. The existence of ingap states pinned at domain walls, theoretically resembling spin/charge solitons in polyacetylene, and protected as the edge of hidden one-dimensional weak Chern insulators characterized by a zero-dimensional class A topological invariant, solves experimental puzzles observed in R2Ir2O7 with rare earth elements R. The domain wall realizes a novel quantum confinement of electrons and embosses a net uniform magnetization, which enables magnetic control of electronic interface transports beyond semiconductor paradigm.

id: 1306.2038
title: Emerging Weak Localization Effects on Topological Insulator-Insulating Ferromagnet (Bi_2Se_3-EuS) Interface
authors: Qi I. Yang, Merav Dolev, Li Zhang, Jinfeng Zhao, Alexander D. Fried, Elizabeth Schemm, Min Liu, Alexander Palevski, Ann F. Marshall, Subhash H. Risbud, Aharon Kapitulnik
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 081407(R) (2013)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2038
abstract: Thin films of topological insulator Bi_2Se_3 were deposited directly on insulating ferromagnetic EuS. Unusual negative magnetoresistance was observed near the zero field below the Curie temperature (T_C), resembling the weak localization effect; whereas the usual positive magnetoresistance was recovered above T_C. Such negative magnetoresistance was only observed for Bi_2Se_3 layers thinner than t~4nm, when its top and bottom surfaces are coupled. These results provide evidence for a proximity effect between a topological insulator and an insulating ferromagnet, laying the foundation for future realization of the half-integer quantized anomalous Hall effect in three-dimensional topological insulators.

id: 1306.2076
title: Semiclassical energy conditions for quantum vacuum states
authors: Prado Martin-Moruno, Matt Visser
comments: V1: 42 pages, 6 figures. V2: 43 pages, 6 figures. Title changed, some discussion added, 3 references added, some typos fixed. V3: Minor edits. Published version
journal: JHEP 1309 (2013) 050
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2076
abstract: We present and develop several nonlinear energy conditions suitable for use in the semiclassical regime. In particular, we consider the recently formulated "flux energy condition" (FEC), and the novel "trace-of-square" (TOSEC) and "determinant" (DETEC) energy conditions. As we shall show, these nonlinear energy conditions behave much better than the classical linear energy conditions in the presence of semiclassical quantum effects. Moreover, whereas the quantum extensions of these nonlinear energy conditions seem to be quite widely satisfied as one enters the quantum realm, analogous quantum extensions are generally not useful for the linear classical energy conditions.

id: 1306.2085
title: Spin-Gauge Theory of Gravity with Higgs-field Mechanism
authors: H. Dehnen, E. Hitzer
comments: 26 pages
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, March 1994, Volume 33, Issue 3, pp 575-592 (1994)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2085
abstract: We propose a Lorentz-covariant Yang-Mills spin-gauge theory, where the function valued Dirac matrices play the role of a non-scalar Higgs-field. As symmetry group we choose $SU(2) \times U(1)$. After symmetry breaking a non-scalar Lorentz-covariant Higgs-field gravity appears, which can be interpreted within a classical limit as Einstein's metrical theory of gravity, where we restrict ourselves in a first step to its linearized version.

id: 1306.2115
title: Carbon nanotubes in almost homogeneous transverse magnetic field: exactly solvable model
authors: Vit Jakubsky, Sengul Kuru, Javier Negro
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures, misprints corrected, references added
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2115
abstract: A class of exactly solvable models describing carbon nanotubes in the presence of an external inhomogeneous magnetic field is considered. The framework of the continuum approximation is employed, where the motion of the charge carriers is governed by the Dirac- Weyl equation. The explicit solution of a particular example is provided. It is shown that these models possess nontrivial integrals of motion that establish N = 2 nonlinear supersymmetry in case of metallic and maximally semiconducting nanotubes. Remarkable stability of energy levels with respect to small fluctuations of longitudinal momentum is demonstrated

id: 1306.2147
title: Effective field theory for two-species bosons in an optical lattice: Multiple order, the Nambu-Goldstone bosons, the Higgs mode and vortex lattice
authors: Y. Kuno, K. Suzuki, I. Ichinose
comments: Title changed, new results added, references added
journal: J.Phys.Soc.Jpn. 82 (2013) 124501
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2147
abstract: In the previous papers, we studied the bosonic t-J mode and derived an effective field theory, which is a kind of quantum XY model. The bosonic t-J model is expected to be realized by experiments of two-component cold atoms in an optical lattice. In this paper, we consider a similar XY model that describes phase diagram of the t-J model with a mass difference. Phase diagram and critical behavior of the quantum XY model are clarified by means of the Monte-Carlo simulations. Effective field theory that describes the phase structure and low-energy excitations of the quantum XY model is derived. Nambu-Goldstone bosons and the Higgs mode are studied by using the effective field theory and interesting findings are obtained for the system with multiple order, i.e., Bose-Einstein condensations and pseudo-spin symmetry. We also investigate physical properties of the quantum XY model in an effective magnetic field that is realized by rotating the optical lattice, etc. We show that low-energy states of the system strongly depend on the strength of the "magnetic field". For some specific strength of the magnetic field, vortex lattice forms and the correlation function of the bosons exhibits solid like behavior, which is a kind of Bose-Einstein condensation.

id: 1306.2162
title: Quantum simulation of a lattice Schwinger model in a chain of trapped ions
authors: Philipp Hauke, David Marcos, Marcello Dalmonte, Peter Zoller
comments: 18 pages, 11 figures; v3: similar to version published in Phys. Rev. X
journal: Phys. Rev. X 3, 041018 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2162
abstract: We discuss how a lattice Schwinger model can be realized in a linear ion trap, allowing a detailed study of the physics of Abelian lattice gauge theories related to one-dimensional quantum electrodynamics. Relying on the rich quantum-simulation toolbox available in state-of-the-art trapped-ion experiments, we show how one can engineer an effectively gauge-invariant dynamics by imposing energetic constraints, provided by strong Ising-like interactions. Applying exact diagonalization to ground-state and time-dependent properties, we study the underlying microscopic model, and discuss undesired interaction terms and other imperfections. As our analysis shows, the proposed scheme allows for the observation in realistic setups of spontaneous parity- and charge-symmetry breaking, as well as false-vacuum decay. Besides an implementation aimed at larger ion chains, we also discuss a minimal setting, consisting of only four ions in a simpler experimental setup, which enables to probe basic physical phenomena related to the full many-body problem. The proposal opens a new route for analog quantum simulation of high-energy and condensed-matter models where gauge symmetries play a prominent role.

id: 1306.2164
title: A Practical Introduction to Tensor Networks: Matrix Product States and Projected Entangled Pair States
authors: Roman Orus
comments: 51 pages, 45 figures, minor typos corrected. Accepted for publication in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 349 (2014) 117-158
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2164
abstract: This is a partly non-technical introduction to selected topics on tensor network methods, based on several lectures and introductory seminars given on the subject. It should be a good place for newcomers to get familiarized with some of the key ideas in the field, specially regarding the numerics. After a very general introduction we motivate the concept of tensor network and provide several examples. We then move on to explain some basics about Matrix Product States (MPS) and Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS). Selected details on some of the associated numerical methods for 1d and 2d quantum lattice systems are also discussed.

id: 1306.2183
title: Single-photon blockade in doubly resonant nanocavities with second-order nonlinearity
authors: Arka Majumdar, Dario Gerace
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 87, 235319 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2183
abstract: We propose the use of nanostructured photonic nanocavities made of second-order nonlinear materials as prospective passive devices to generate strongly sub-Poissonian light via single-photon blockade of an input coherent field. The simplest scheme is based on the requirement that the nanocavity be doubly resonant, i.e. possess cavity modes with good spatial overlap at both the fundamental and second-harmonic frequencies. We discuss feasibility of this scheme with state-of-the art nanofabrication technology, and the possibility to use it as a passive single-photon source on-demand.

id: 1306.2204
title: First experimental realization of the Dirac oscillator
authors: J. A. Franco-Villafa?e, E. Sadurn¨ª, S. Barkhofen, U. Kuhl, F. Mortessagne, T. H. Seligman
comments: 6 figures, 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 170405 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2204
abstract: We present the first experimental microwave realization of the one-dimensional Dirac oscillator, a paradigm in exactly solvable relativistic systems. The experiment relies on a relation of the Dirac oscillator to a corresponding tight-binding system. This tight-binding system is implemented as a microwave system by a chain of coupled dielectric disks, where the coupling is evanescent and can be adjusted appropriately. The resonances of the finite microwave system yields the spectrum of the one-dimensional Dirac oscillator with and without mass term. The flexibility of the experimental set-up allows the implementation of other one-dimensional Dirac type equations.

id: 1306.2207
title: In-in formalism on tunneling background: multi-dimensional quantum mechanics
authors: Kazuyuki Sugimura
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2207
abstract: We reformulate quantum tunneling in a multi-dimensional system where the tunneling sector is non-linearly coupled to oscillators. The WKB wave function is explicitly constructed under the assumption that the system was in the ground state before tunneling. We find that the quantum state after tunneling can be expressed in the language of the conventional in-in formalism. Some implications of the result to cosmology are discussed.

id: 1306.2235
title: Generation of a spin-polarized electron beam by multipoles magnetic fields
authors: Ebrahim Karimi, Vincenzo Grillo, Robert W. Boyd, Enrico Santamato
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2235
abstract: The propagation of an electron beam in the presence of transverse magnetic fields possessing integer topological charges is presented. The spin--magnetic interaction introduces a nonuniform spin precession of the electrons that gains a space-variant geometrical phase in the transverse plane proportional to the field's topological charge, whose handedness depends on the input electron's spin state. A combination of our proposed device with an electron orbital angular momentum sorter can be utilized as a spin-filter of electron beams in a mid-energy range. We examine these two different configurations of a partial spin-filter generator numerically. The results of these analysis could prove useful in the design of improved electron microscope.

id: 1306.2376
title: A universal framework for entanglement detection
authors: Micha? Oszmaniec, Marek Ku?
comments: minor changes added to the manuscript
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052328 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2376
abstract: We construct nonlinear multiparty entanglement measures for distinguishable particles, bosons and fermions. In each case properties of an entanglement measures are related to the decomposition of the suitably chosen representation of the relevant symmetry group onto irreducible components. In the case of distinguishable particles considered entanglement measure reduces to the well-known many particle concurrence. We prove that our entanglement criterion is sufficient and necessary for pure states living in both finite and infinite dimensional spaces. We generalize our entanglement measures to mixed states by the convex roof extension and give a non trivial lower bound of thus obtained generalized concurrence.

id: 1306.2403
title: On pure quasi quantum quadratic operators of M_2(C)
authors: Farrukh Mukhamedov, Abduaziz Abduganiev
comments: 14 pages
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics, Vol. 20, No. 4 (2013) 1350018
subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2403
abstract: In the present paper we study quasi quantum quadratic operators (q.q.o) acting on the algebra of $2\times 2$ matrices $M_2(C)$. It is known that a channel is called pure if it sends pure states to pure ones. In this papers, we introduce a weaker condition, called $q$-purity, than purity of the channel. To study $q$-pure channels, we concentrate ourselves to quasi q.q.o. acting on $M_2(C)$. We describe all trace-preserving quasi q.q.o. on $M_2(C)$, which allowed us to prove that if a trace-preserving symmetric quasi q.q.o. such that the corresponding quadratic operator is linear, then its $q$-purity implies its positivity. If a symmetric quasi q.q.o. has a Haar state $\tau$, then its corresponding quadratic operator is nonlinear, and it is proved that such $q$-pure symmetric quasi q.q.o. cannot be positive. We think that such a result will allow to check whether a given mapping from $M_2(C)$ to $M_2(C)\o M_2(C)$ is pure or not. On the other hand, our study is related to construction of pure quantum nonlinear channels. Moreover, it is also considered that nonlinear dynamics associated with quasi pure q.q.o. may have differen kind of dynamics, i.e. it may behave chaotically or trivially, respectively.

id: 1306.2433
title: The Discrete-Continuous Logic and its possible quantum realizations
authors: E. D. Vol
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2433
abstract: We propose a new version of generalized probabilistic propositional logic, namely, discrete-continuous logic (DCL) in which every generalized proposition (GP) is represented as 2x2 nondiagonal positive matrix with unit trace. We demonstrate that on the set of propositions of this kind one can define both the discrete logical operations (connectives) such as negation and strong logical disjunction and in addition one parameter group of continuous operations (logical rotations). We prove that an arbitrary classical proposition (which in this logic is represented by the purely diagonal matrix) can be considered as the result of strong disjunction of two identical GP. This fact gives one a good reason to presume the DCL as a prime logical substructure underlying to ordinary propositional logic, which is recorded by our consciousness. We believe that proposed version of DCL will find many applications both in physics (quantum logic) and also in cognitive sciences (mental imagery) for better understanding of the pecular nature of mental brain operations.

id: 1306.2519
title: Effects of non-equilibrium noise on a quantum memory encoded in Majorana zero modes
authors: Fran?ois Konschelle, Fabian Hassler
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 075431 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2519
abstract: In order to increase the coherence time of topological quantum memories in systems with Majorana zero modes, it has recently been proposed to encode the logical qubit states in non-local Majorana operators which are immune to localized excitations involving the unpaired Majorana modes. In this encoding, a logical error only happens when the quasi-particles, subsequent to their excitation, travel a distance of the order of the spacing between the Majorana modes. Here, we study the decay time of a quantum memory encoded in a clean topological nanowire interacting with an environment with a particular emphasis on the propagation of the quasi-particles above the gap. We show that the non-local encoding does not provide a significantly longer coherence time than the local encoding. In particular, the characteristic speed of propagation is of the order of the Fermi velocity of the nanowire and not given by the much slower group velocity of quasi-particles which are excited just above the gap.

id: 1306.2640
title: Holographic Phases of Renyi Entropies
authors: Alexandre Belin, Alexander Maloney, Shunji Matsuura
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures, v3 - References added. Neumann boundary conditions added in section 5
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2640
abstract: We consider Renyi entropies of conformal field theories in flat space, with the entangling surface being a sphere. The AdS/CFT correspondence relates this Renyi entropy to that of a black hole with hyperbolic horizon; as the Renyi parameter $n$ increases the temperature of the black hole decreases. If the CFT possesses a sufficiently low dimension scalar operator the black hole will be unstable to the development of hair. Thus, as $n$ is varied, the Renyi entropies will exhibit a phase transition at a critical value of $n$. The location of the phase transition, along with the spectrum of the reduced density matrix $\rho$, depends on the dimension of the lowest dimension non-trivial scalar operator in the theory.

id: 1306.2711
title: Robustness of fragmented condensate many-body states for continuous distribution amplitudes in Fock space
authors: Uwe R. Fischer, Bo Xiong
comments: 7 pages of RevTex4-1, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 053602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2711
abstract: We consider a two-mode model describing scalar bosons with two-body interactions in a single trap, taking into account coherent pair-exchange between the modes. It is demonstrated that the resulting fragmented many-body states with continuous (nonsingular) Fock-space distribution amplitudes are robust against perturbations due to occupation number and relative phase fluctuations, Josephson-type tunneling between the modes, and weakly broken parity of orbitals, as well as against perturbations due to interaction with a third mode.

id: 1306.2720
title: Coherence and Screening in Multi-Electron Spin Qubits
authors: A. P. Higginbotham, F. Kuemmeth, M. P. Hanson, A. C. Gossard, C. M. Marcus
comments: Supplemental Material here: this https URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 026801 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2720
abstract: The performance of multi-electron spin qubits is examined by comparing exchange oscillations in coupled single-electron and multi-electron quantum dots in the same device. Fast (> 1 GHz) exchange oscillations with a quality factor Q > 15 are found for the multi-electron case, compared to Q ~ 2 for the single-electron case, the latter consistent with previous experiments. A model of dephasing that includes voltage and hyperfine noise is developed that is in good agreement with both single- and multi-electron data, though in both cases additional exchange-independent dephasing is needed to obtain quantitative agreement across a broad parameter range.

id: 1306.2773
title: Collective modes of a trapped ion-dipole system
authors: Jordi Mur-Petit, Juan Jos¨¦ Garc'\ia-Ripoll
comments: v2: 13 pages, 8 figures (from 10 figure files). Matches published version in Appl. Phys. B, special issue "Wolfgang Paul 100"
journal: Appl. Phys. B 114, 283-294 (2014)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2773
abstract: We study a simple model consisting of an atomic ion and a polar molecule trapped in a single setup, taking into consideration their electrostatic interaction. We determine analytically their collective modes of excitation as a function of their masses, trapping frequencies, distance, and the molecule's electric dipole moment. We then discuss the application of these collective excitations to cool molecules, to entangle molecules and ions, and to realize two-qubit gates between them. We finally present a numerical analysis of the possibility of applying these tools to study magnetically ordered phases of two-dimensional arrays of polar molecules, a setup proposed to quantum-simulate some strongly-correlated models of condensed matter.

id: 1306.2836
title: Bound states in a hyperbolic asymmetric double-well
authors: R. R. Hartmann
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 012105 (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2836
abstract: We report a new class of hyperbolic asymmetric double-well whose bound state wavefunctions can be expressed in terms of confluent Heun functions. An analytic procedure is used to obtain the energy eigenvalues and the criterion for the potential to support bound states is discussed.

id: 1306.2838
title: The Quantum Challenge in Concept Theory and Natural Language Processing
authors: Diederik Aerts, Jan Broekaert, Sandro Sozzo, Tomas Veloz
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2838
abstract: The mathematical formalism of quantum theory has been successfully used in human cognition to model decision processes and to deliver representations of human knowledge. As such, quantum cognition inspired tools have improved technologies for Natural Language Processing and Information Retrieval. In this paper, we overview the quantum cognition approach developed in our Brussels team during the last two decades, specifically our identification of quantum structures in human concepts and language, and the modeling of data from psychological and corpus-text-based experiments. We discuss our quantum-theoretic framework for concepts and their conjunctions/disjunctions in a Fock-Hilbert space structure, adequately modeling a large amount of data collected on concept combinations. Inspired by this modeling, we put forward elements for a quantum contextual and meaning-based approach to information technologies in which 'entities of meaning' are inversely reconstructed from texts, which are considered as traces of these entities' states.

id: 1306.2947
title: Dissipative dynamics of a driven quantum spin coupled to a bath of ultracold fermions
authors: Michael Knap, Dmitry A. Abanin, Eugene Demler
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, plus supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 265302 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2947
abstract: We explore the dynamics and the steady state of a driven quantum spin coupled to a bath of fermions, which can be realized with a strongly imbalanced mixture of ultracold atoms using currently available experimental tools. Radio-frequency driving can be used to induce tunneling between the spin states. The Rabi oscillations are modified due to the coupling of the quantum spin to the environment, which causes frequency renormalization and damping. The spin-bath coupling can be widely tuned by adjusting the scattering length through a Feshbach resonance. When the scattering potential creates a bound state, by tuning the driving frequency it is possible to populate either the ground state, in which the bound state is filled, or a metastable state in which the bound state is empty. In the latter case, we predict an emergent inversion of the steady-state magnetization. Our work shows that different regimes of dissipative dynamics can be explored with a quantum spin coupled to a bath of ultracold fermions.

id: 1306.2987
title: Coarse graining of spin net models: dynamics of intertwiners
authors: Bianca Dittrich, Mercedes Mart¨ªn-Benito, Erik Schnetter
comments: 33 pages, 17 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 103004, 2013
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.2987
abstract: Spin foams are models of quantum gravity and therefore quantum space time. A key open issue is to determine the possible continuum phases of these models. Progress on this issue has been prohibited by the complexity of the full four--dimensional models. We consider here simplified analogue models, so called spin nets, that retain the main dynamical ingredient of spin foams, the simplicity constraints. For a certain class of these spin net models we determine the phase diagram and therefore the continuum phases via a coarse graining procedure based on tensor network renormalization. This procedure will also reveal an unexpected fixed point, which turns out to define a new triangulation invariant vertex model.

id: 1306.3076
title: Some Remarks on the Logic of Quantum Gravity
authors: Andreas Doering
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3076
abstract: We discuss some conceptual issues that any approach to quantum gravity has to confront. In particular, it is argued that one has to find a theory that can be interpreted in a realist manner, because theories with an instrumentalist interpretation are problematic for several well-known reasons. Since the Hilbert space formalism almost inevitably forces an instrumentalist interpretation on us, we suggest that a theory of quantum gravity should not be based on the Hilbert space formalism. We briefly sketch the topos approach, which makes use of the internal logic of a topos associated with a quantum system and comes with a natural (neo-)realist interpretation. Finally, we make some remarks on the relation between system logic and metalogic.

id: 1306.3124
title: From antiferromagnetic order to magnetic textures in the two dimensional Fermi Hubbard model with synthetic spin orbit interaction
authors: Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Beno?t Gr¨¦maud
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 235130 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3124
abstract: We study the interacting Fermi-Hubbard model in two spatial dimensions with synthetic gauge coupling of the spin orbit Rashba type, at half-filling. Using real space mean field theory, we numerically determine the phase as a function of the interaction strength for different values of the gauge field parameters. For a fixed value of the gauge field, we observe that when the strength of the repulsive interaction is increased, the system enters into an antiferromagnetic phase, then undergoes a first order phase transition to an non collinear magnetic phase. Depending on the gauge field parameter, this phase further evolves to the one predicted from the effective Heisenberg model obtained in the limit of large interaction strength. We explain the presence of the antiferromagnetic phase at small interaction from the computation of the spin-spin susceptibility which displays a divergence at low temperatures for the antiferromagnetic ordering. We discuss, how the divergence is related to the nature of the underlying Fermi surfaces. Finally, the fact that the first order phase transitions for different gauge field parameters occur at unrelated critical interaction strengths arises from a Hofstadter-like situation, i.e. for different magnetic phases, the mean-field Hamiltonians have different translational symmetries.

id: 1306.3169
title: Coherent Backscattering in Fock Space: a Signature of Quantum Many-Body Interference in Interacting Bosonic Systems
authors: Thomas Engl, Julien Dujardin, Arturo Arg¨¹elles, Peter Schlagheck, Klaus Richter, Juan Diego Urbina
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3169
abstract: We predict a generic manifestation of quantum interference in many-body bosonic systems resulting in a coherent enhancement of the average return probability in Fock space. This enhancement is both robust with respect to variations of external parameters and genuinely quantum insofar as it cannot be described within mean-field approaches. As a direct manifestation of the superposition principle in Fock space, it arises when many-body equilibration due to interactions sets in. Using a semiclassical approach based on interfering paths in Fock space, we calculate the magnitude of the backscattering peak and its dependence on gauge fields that break time-reversal invariance. We confirm our predictions by comparing them to exact quantum evolution probabilities in Bose-Hubbard models, and discuss the relevance of our findings in the context of many-body thermalization.

id: 1306.3187
title: Convex bodies of states and maps
authors: Janusz Grabowski, Alberto Ibort, Marek Ku?, Giuseppe Marmo
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3187
abstract: We give a general solution to the question when the convex hulls of orbits of quantum states on a finite-dimensional Hilbert space under unitary actions of a compact group have a non-empty interior in the surrounding space of all density states. The same approach can be applied to study convex combinations of quantum channels. The importance of both problems stems from the fact that, usually, only sets with non-vanishing volumes in the embedding spaces of all states or channels are of practical importance. For the group of local transformations on a bipartite system we characterize maximally entangled states by properties of a convex hull of orbits through them. We also compare two partial characteristics of convex bodies in terms of largest balls and maximum volume ellipsoids contained in them and show that, in general, they do not coincide. Separable states, mixed-unitary channels and k-entangled states are also considered as examples of our techniques.

id: 1306.3247
title: Program for quantum wave-packet dynamics with time-dependent potentials
authors: C. M. Dion, A. Hashemloo, G. Rahali
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures
journal: Computer Physics Communicatons 185, 407 (2014)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3247
abstract: We present a program to simulate the dynamics of a wave packet interacting with a time-dependent potential. The time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation is solved on a one-, two-, or three-dimensional spatial grid using the split operator method. The program can be compiled for execution either on a single processor or on a distributed-memory parallel computer.

id: 1306.3268
title: Repulsive Interactions in Quantum Hall Systems as a Pairing Problem
authors: Gerardo Ortiz, Zohar Nussinov, Jorge Dukelsky, Alexander Seidel
comments: 26 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 165303 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3268
abstract: A subtle relation between Quantum Hall physics and the phenomenon of pairing is unveiled. By use of second quantization, we establish a connection between (i) a broad class of rotationally symmetric two-body interactions within the lowest Landau level and (ii) integrable hyperbolic Richardson-Gaudin type Hamiltonians that arise in (p_{x}+ip_{y}) superconductivity. Specifically, we show that general Haldane pseudopotentials (and their sums) can be expressed as a sum of repulsive non-commuting (p_{x}+ip_{y})-type pairing Hamiltonians. For the Laughlin sequence, it is observed that this problem is frustration free and zero energy ground states lie in the common null space of all of these non-commuting Hamiltonians. This property allows for the use of a new truncated basis of pairing configurations in which to express Laughlin states at general filling factors. We prove separability of arbitrary Haldane pseudopotentials, providing explicit expressions for their second quantized forms, and further show by explicit construction how to exploit the topological equivalence between different geometries (disk, cylinder, and sphere) sharing the same topological genus number, in the second quantized formalism, through similarity transformations. As an application of the second quantized approach, we establish a "squeezing principle" that applies to the zero modes of a general class of Hamiltonians, which includes but is not limited to Haldane pseudopotentials. We also show how one may establish (bounds on) "incompressible filling factors" for those Hamiltonians. By invoking properties of symmetric polynomials, we provide explicit second quantized quasi-hole generators; the generators that we find directly relate to bosonic chiral edge modes and further make aspects of dimensional reduction in the Quantum Hall systems precise.

id: 1306.3308
title: Motional Coherence of Fermions Immersed in a Bose Gas
authors: R. Scelle, T. Rentrop, A. Trautmann, T. Schuster, M. K. Oberthaler
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, links to citations fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 070401 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3308
abstract: We prepare a superposition of two motional states by addressing lithium atoms immersed in a Bose-Einstein condensate of sodium with a species-selective potential. The evolution of the superposition state is characterized by the populations of the constituent states as well as their coherence. The latter we extract employing a novel scheme analogous to the spin-echo technique. Comparing the results directly to measurements on freely-evolving fermions allows us to isolate the decoherence effects induced by the bath. In our system, the decoherence time is close to the maximal possible value since the decoherence is dominated by population relaxation processes. The measured data are in good agreement with a theoretical model based on Fermi's golden rule.

id: 1306.3313
title: Effective preparation and collisional decay of atomic condensate in excited bands of an optical lattice
authors: Yueyang Zhai, Xuguang Yue, Yanjiang Wu, Xuzong Chen, Peng Zhang, Xiaoji Zhou
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, Accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3313
abstract: We present a method for the effective preparation of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) into the excited bands of an optical lattice via a standing-wave pulse sequence. With our method, the BEC can be prepared in either a single Bloch state in a excited-band, or a coherent superposition of states in different bands. Our scheme is experimentally demonstrated by preparing a $^{87}$Rb BEC into the $d$-band and the superposition of $s$- and $d$-band states of a one-dimensional optical lattice, within a few tens of microseconds. We further measure the decay of the BEC in the $d$-band state, and carry an analytical calculation for the collisional decay of atoms in the excited-band states. Our theoretical and experimental results consist well.

id: 1306.3405
title: Observation of surface states with algebraic localization
authors: G. Corrielli, G. Della Valle, A. Crespi, R. Osellame, S. Longhi
comments: revised version with Supplemental Material, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 220403 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3405
abstract: We introduce and experimentally demonstrate a class of surface bound states with algebraic decay in a one-dimensional tight-binding lattice. Such states have an energy embedded in the spectrum of scattered states and are structurally stable against perturbations of lattice parameters. Experimental demonstration of surface states with algebraic localization is presented in an array of evanescently-coupled optical waveguides with tailored coupling rates.

id: 1306.3451
title: Quantum Techniques for Reaction Networks
authors: John C. Baez
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3451
abstract: Reaction networks are a general formalism for describing collections of classical entities interacting in a random way. While reaction networks are mainly studied by chemists, they are equivalent to Petri nets, which are used for similar purposes in computer science and biology. As noted by Doi and others, techniques from quantum field theory can be adapted to apply to such systems. Here we use these techniques to study how the "master equation" describing stochastic time evolution for a reaction network reduces is related to the "rate equation" describing the deterministic evolution of the expected number of particles of each species in the large-number limit. We show that the relation is especially strong when a solution of master equation is a "coherent state", meaning that the numbers of entities of each kind are described by independent Poisson distributions.

id: 1306.3463
title: A momentum filter for atomic gas
authors: Wei Xiong, Xiaoji Zhou, Xuguang Yue, Yueyang Zhai, Xuzong Chen
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, accepted by New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3463
abstract: We propose and demonstrate a momentum filter for atomic gas based on a designed Talbot-Lau interferometer. It consists in two identical optical standing wave pulses separated by a delay equal to odd multiples of the half Talbot time. The one dimensional momentum width along the long direction of a cigar shape condensate is rapidly and greatly purified to a minimum, which corresponds to the ground state energy of the confining trap in our experiment. We find good agreement between theoretical analysis and experimental results. The filter is also effective for non-condensed cold atoms and could be applied widely.

id: 1306.3485
title: Suspended Long-Lived NMR Echo in Solids
authors: A. Turanov, A.K. Khitrin
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3485
abstract: We report an observation of extremely long-lived spin states in systems of dipolar-coupled nuclear spins in solids. The 'suspended echo' experiment uses a simple stimulated echo pulse sequence and creates non-equilibrium states which live many orders of magnitude longer than the characteristic time of spin-spin dynamics T2. Large amounts of information can be encoded in such long-lived states, stored in a form of multi-spin correlations, and subsequently retrieved by an application of a single 'reading' pulse.

id: 1306.3591
title: Analysis of single-photon and linear amplifier detectors for microwave cavity dark matter axion searches
authors: S.K. Lamoreaux, K.A. van Bibber, K.W. Lehnert, G. Carosi
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure new version address comments received
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3591
abstract: We show that at higher frequencies, and thus higher axion masses, single-photon detectors become competitive and ultimately favored, when compared to quantum-limited linear amplifiers, as the detector technology in microwave cavity experimental searches for galactic halo dark matter axions. The cross-over point in this comparison is of order 10 GHz ($\sim 40\ \mu$eV), not far above the frequencies of current searches.

id: 1306.3662
title: Quantum Renormalization Groups Based on Natural Orbitals
authors: Rong-Qiang He, Zhong-Yi Lu
comments: 4.5 pages, 4 figures, and 1 table; 3 pages Supl. with another 2 figures and 4 tables; In this version, we update the Supl. with more discussions and comparisons with DMRG
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 085108 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3662
abstract: We propose a new concept upon the renormalization group (RG) procedure for an interacting many-electron correlated system in the framework of natural orbitals, and formulate an algorithm for this RG approach. To demonstrate its effectiveness, we apply this new approach on a quantum cluster-impurity model with four impurities in comparison with the exact diagonalization method. We also find a shortcut to dramatically improving this RG algorithm. Further discussion is presented with the cluster dynamical mean-field theory and multi-impurity/orbital Kondo problems.

id: 1306.3702
title: Exact band structures for 1D superlattices beyond the tight-binding approximation
authors: Olaf Kr¨¹ger, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3702
abstract: The band structures describing non-interacting particles in one-dimensional superlattices of arbitrary periodicity are obtained by an analytical diagonalization of the Hamiltonian without adopting the popular tight-binding approximation. The results are compared with those of the tight-binding approximation. In this way, a quantitative prediction of the validity and failure of the tight-binding approximation becomes possible. In particular, it is demonstrated that in contrast to the prediction of the tight-binding approximation the central energy bands do not touch for periodicities $\tau$ of the lattice where $\tau=4n$ and $n$ is an integer.

id: 1306.3720
title: Population trapping and inversion in ultracold Fermi gases by excitation of the optical lattice - Non-equilibrium Floquet-Keldysh description
authors: Regine Frank
comments: accepted in Applied Physics B (2013)
journal: Applied Physics B 113, 41- 47 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3720
abstract: A gas of ultracold interacting quantum degenerate Fermions is considered in a three dimensional optical lattice which is externally modulated in the fre- quency and the amplitude. This theoretical study utilizes the Keldysh formalism to account for the system being out of thermodynamical equilibrium. A dynamical mean field theory, extended to non-equilibrium, is presented to calculate characteristic quantities such as the local density of states and the non-equilibrium distribution function. A dynamics Franz-Keldysh splitting is found which accounts for the non-equilibrium modification of the underlying bandstructure. The found characteristic Floquet-fan like bandstructure accounts for the quantized nature of the effect over all frequency space.

id: 1306.3748
title: Spontaneous Photoemission From Metamaterial Junction: A Conjecture
authors: Subir Ghosh, Santanu K. Maiti
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3748
abstract: The possibility of spontaneous photon pair emission from a normal material - metamaterial junction is investigated in a quantum field theory setting. We consider a pair of photons arising from vacuum fluctuations of the electromagnetic field close to the junction where one photon each comes from the normal and metamaterial sectors. Mixing between the positive and negative norm photon modes can give rise to spontaneous photoemission, the rate of which is calculated.

id: 1306.3780
title: All-solid-state continuous-wave laser systems for ionization, cooling and quantum state manipulation of beryllium ions
authors: H.-Y. Lo, J. Alonso, D. Kienzler, B.C. Keitch, L.E. de Clercq, V. Negnevitsky, J.P. Home
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3780
abstract: We describe laser systems for photoionization, Doppler cooling and quantum state manipulation of beryllium ions. For photoionization of neutral beryllium, we have developed a continuous-wave 235 nm source obtained by two stages of frequency doubling from a diode laser at 940 nm. The system delivers up to 400 mW at 470 nm and 28 mW at 235 nm. For control of the beryllium ion, three laser wavelengths at 313 nm are produced by sum-frequency generation and second-harmonic generation from four infrared fiber lasers. Up to 7.2 W at 626 nm and 1.9 W at 313 nm are obtained using two pump beams at 1051 and 1551 nm. Intensity fluctuations below 0.5 % per hour (during 8 hours of operation) have been measured at a 313 nm power of 1 W. These systems are used to load beryllium ions into a segmented ion trap.

id: 1306.3878
title: Atomic ionization by twisted photons: Angular distribution of emitted electrons
authors: Oliver Matula, Armen G Hayrapetyan, Valeriy G Serbo, Andrey Surzhykov, Stephan Fritzsche
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 205002
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3878
abstract: We investigate the angular distribution of electrons that are emitted in the ionization of hydrogen-like ions by twisted photons. Analysis is performed based on the first-order perturbation theory and the non-relativistic Schr\"odinger equation. Special attention is paid to the dependence of the electron emission pattern on the impact parameter b of the ion with respect to the centre of the twisted wave front. In order to explore such a dependence, detailed calculations were carried out for the photoionization of the 1s ground and 2 py excited states of neutral hydrogen atoms. Based on these calculations, we argue that for relatively small impact parameters the electron angular distributions may be strongly affected by altering the position of the atom within the wave front. In contrast, if the atom is placed far from the front centre, the emission pattern of the electrons is independent on the impact parameter b and resembles that observed in the photoionization by plane wave photons.

id: 1306.3889
title: Cavity-mediated near-critical dissipative dynamics of a driven condensate
authors: Manas Kulkarni, Baris ?ztop, Hakan E. T¨¹reci
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 220408 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.3889
abstract: We investigate the near-critical dynamics of atomic density fluctuations in the non-equilibrium self-organization transition of an optically driven quantum gas coupled to a single mode of a cavity. In this system cavity-mediated long-range interactions between atoms, tunable by the drive strength, lead to softening of an excitation mode recently observed in experiments. This phenomenon has previously been studied within a two-mode approximation for the collective motional degrees of freedom of the atomic condensate which results in an effective open-system Dicke model. Here, including the full spectrum of atomic modes we find a finite lifetime for a roton-like mode in the Bogoliubov excitation spectrum that is strongly pump-dependent. The corresponding decay rate and critical exponents for the phase-transition are calculated explaining the non-monotonic pump-dependent atomic damping rate observed in recent experiments. We compute the near-critical behavior of the intra-cavity field fluctuations, that has been previously shown to be enhanced with respect to the equilibrium Dicke model in a two-mode approximation. We highlight the role of the finite size of the system in the suppression of it below the expectations of the open Dicke model.

id: 1306.4002
title: Deterministic entanglement of superconducting qubits by parity measurement and feedback
authors: D. Rist¨¨, M. Dukalski, C. A. Watson, G. de Lange, M. J. Tiggelman, Ya. M. Blanter, K. W. Lehnert, R. N. Schouten, L. DiCarlo
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, and 9 supplementary figures
journal: Nature 502, 350-354 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4002
abstract: The stochastic evolution of quantum systems during measurement is arguably the most enigmatic feature of quantum mechanics. Measuring a quantum system typically steers it towards a classical state, destroying any initial quantum superposition and any entanglement with other quantum systems. Remarkably, the measurement of a shared property between non-interacting quantum systems can generate entanglement starting from an uncorrelated state. Of special interest in quantum computing is the parity measurement, which projects a register of quantum bits (qubits) to a state with an even or odd total number of excitations. Crucially, a parity meter must discern the two parities with high fidelity while preserving coherence between same-parity states. Despite numerous proposals for atomic, semiconducting, and superconducting qubits, realizing a parity meter creating entanglement for both even and odd measurement results has remained an outstanding challenge. We realize a time-resolved, continuous parity measurement of two superconducting qubits using the cavity in a 3D circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) architecture and phase-sensitive parametric amplification. Using postselection, we produce entanglement by parity measurement reaching 77% concurrence. Incorporating the parity meter in a feedback-control loop, we transform the entanglement generation from probabilistic to fully deterministic, achieving 66% fidelity to a target Bell state on demand. These realizations of a parity meter and a feedback-enabled deterministic measurement protocol provide key ingredients for active quantum error correction in the solid state.

id: 1306.4003
title: Robustness in Projected Entangled Pair States
authors: J.I. Cirac, S. Michalakis, D. Perez-Garcia, N. Schuch
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 115108 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4003
abstract: We analyze a criterion which guarantees that the ground states of certain many body systems are stable under perturbations. Specifically, we consider PEPS, which are believed to provide an efficient description, based on local tensors, for the low energy physics arising from local interactions. In order to assess stability in the framework of PEPS, one thus needs to understand how physically allowed perturbations of the local tensor affect the properties of the global state. In this paper, we show that a restricted version of the Local Topological Quantum Order (LTQO) condition provides a checkable criterion which allows to assess the stability of local properties of PEPS under physical perturbations. We moreover show that LTQO itself is stable under perturbations which preserve the spectral gap, leading to nontrivial examples of PEPS which possess LTQO and are thus stable under arbitrary perturbations.

id: 1306.4061
title: The London-Anderson-Englert-Brout-Higgs-Guralnik-Hagen-Kibble-Weinberg mechanism and Higgs boson reveal the unity and future excitement of physics
authors: Roland E. Allen
comments: 15 pages, historical and tutorial, but with some new emphasis
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4061
abstract: The particle recently discovered by the CMS and ATLAS collaborations at CERN is almost certainly a Higgs boson, fulfilling a quest that can be traced back to three seminal high energy papers of 1964, but which is intimately connected to ideas in other areas of physics that go back much further. One might oversimplify the history of the features which (i) give mass to the W and Z particles that mediate the weak nuclear interaction, (ii) effectively break gauge invariance, (iii) eliminate physically unacceptable Nambu-Goldstone bosons, and (iv) give mass to fermions (like the electron) by collectively calling them the London-Anderson-Englert-Brout-Higgs-Guralnik-Hagen-Kibble-Weinberg mechanism. More important are the implications for the future: a Higgs boson appears to point toward supersymmetry, since new physics is required to protect its mass from enormous quantum corrections, while the discovery of neutrino masses seems to point toward grand unification of the nongravitational forces.

id: 1306.4142
title: Natural occupation numbers: When do they vanish?
authors: K.J.H. Giesbertz, R. van Leeuwen
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 104109 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4142
abstract: The non-vanishing of the natural orbital occupation numbers of the one-particle density matrix of many-body systems has important consequences for the existence of a density matrix-potential mapping for nonlocal potentials in reduced density matrix functional theory and for the validity of the extended Koopmans' Theorem. On the basis of Weyl's theorem we give a connection between the differentiability properties of the ground state wave function and the rate at which the natural occupations approach zero when ordered as a descending series. We show, in particular, that the presence of a Coulomb cusp in the wave function leads, in general, to a power law decay of the natural occupations, whereas infinitely differentiable wave-functions typically have natural occupations that decay exponentially. We analyze for a number of explicit examples of two-particle systems that in case the wave function is non-analytic at its spatial diagonal (for instance, due to the presence of a Coulomb cusp) the natural orbital occupations are non-vanishing. We further derive a more general criterium for the non-vanishing of NO occupations for two-particle wave functions with a certain separability structure. On the basis of this criterium we show that for a two-particle system of harmonically confined electrons with a Coulombic interaction (the so-called Hookium) the natural orbital occupations never vanish.

id: 1306.4187
title: Dynamical Exchange Interaction From Time-Dependent Spin Density Functional Theory
authors: Maria Stamenova, Stefano Sanvito
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4187
abstract: We report on {\it ab initio} time-dependent spin dynamics simulations for a two-center magnetic molecular complex based on time-dependent non-collinear spin density functional theory. In particular, we discuss how the dynamical behavior of the {\it ab initio} spin-density in the time-domain can be mapped onto a model Hamiltonian based on the classical Heisenberg spin-spin interaction $J\vcr{S}_1\cdot \vcr{S}_2$. By analyzing individual localized-spin trajectories, extracted from the spin-density evolution, we demonstrate a novel method for evaluating the effective Heisenberg exchange coupling constant, $J$, from first principles simulations. We find that $J$, extracted in such a new dynamical way, agrees quantitatively to that calculated by the standard density functional theory broken-symmetry scheme.

id: 1306.4202
title: COW test of the weak equivalence principle: A low-energy window to look into the noncommutative structure of space-time?
authors: Anirban Saha
comments: 4 pages, revTex
journal: Phys. Rev. D. 89, 025010 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4202
abstract: We construct the quantum mechanical model of the COW experiment assuming that the underlying space time has a granular structure, described by a canonical noncommutative algebra of coordinates $x^{\mu}$. The time-space sector of the algebra is shown to add a mass-dependent contribution to the gravitational acceleration felt by neutron deBrogli waves measured in a COW experiment. This makes time-space noncommutativity a potential candidate for an apparent violation of WEP even if the ratio of the inertial mass $m_{i}$ and gravitational mass $m_{g}$ is a universal constant. The latest experimental result based on COW principle is shown to place an upper-bound several orders of magnitude stronger than the existing one on the time-space noncommutative parameter. We argue that the evidence of NC structure of space-time may be found if the COW-type experiment can be repeated with several particle species.

id: 1306.4212
title: Optimized structure and vibrational properties by error affected potential energy surfaces
authors: Andrea Zen, Delyan Zhelyazov, Leonardo Guidoni
comments: Reprinted (adapted) with permission from J. Chem. Theory Comput., 2012, 8 (11), pp 4204--4215, DOI:10.1021/ct300576n. Copyright (2012) American Chemical Society
journal: J. Chem. Theory Comput. 8 (11), 4204-4215 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4212
abstract: The precise theoretical determination of the geometrical parameters of molecules at the minima of their potential energy surface and of the corresponding vibrational properties are of fundamental importance for the interpretation of vibrational spectroscopy experiments. Quantum Monte Carlo techniques are correlated electronic structure methods promising for large molecules, which are intrinsically affected by stochastic errors on both energy and force calculations, making the mentioned calculations more challenging with respect to other more traditional quantum chemistry tools. To circumvent this drawback in the present work we formulate the general problem of evaluating the molecular equilibrium structures, the harmonic frequencies and the anharmonic coefficients of an error affected potential energy surface. The proposed approach, based on a multidimensional fitting procedure, is illustrated together with a critical evaluation of systematic and statistical errors. We observe that the use of forces instead of energies in the fitting procedure reduces the the statistical uncertainty of the vibrational parameters by one order of magnitude. Preliminary results based on Variational Monte Carlo calculations on the water molecule demonstrate the possibility to evaluate geometrical parameters, harmonic and anharmonic coefficients at this level of theory with an affordable computational cost and a small stochastic uncertainty (<0.07% for geometries and <0.7% for vibrational properties).

id: 1306.4220
title: Partial Decoherence and Thermalization through Time-Domain Ergodicity
authors: Robert Englman, Asher Yahalom
comments: 24 pages, 11 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 87, 052123 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4220
abstract: An approach, differing from two commonly used methods (the stochastic \SE \ and the master equation \cite {Schlosshauer,BieleA}) but entrenched in the traditional density matrix formalism, is developed in a semi-classical setting, so as to go from the solutions of the time dependent \SE to decohering and thermalized states. This is achieved by utilizing the time-ergodicity, rather than the sampling- (or ensemble-) ergodicity, of physical systems. We introduce the formalism through a study of the Rabi model (a two level system coupled to an oscillator) and show that our semi-classical version exhibits, both qualitatively and quantitatively, many features of state truncation and equilibration \cite {AllahverdyanBN}. We then study the time evolution of two qubits in interaction with a bosonic environment, such that the energy scale of one qubit is much larger, and that of the other much smaller than the environment's energy scale. The small energy qubit decoheres to a mixture, while the high energy qubit is protected through the adiabatic theorem. However, an inter-qubit coupling generates an overall decoherence and leads for some values of the coupling to long term revivals in the state occupations.

id: 1306.4252
title: A quantum particle in a box with moving walls
authors: Sara Di Martino, Fabio Anza', Paolo Facchi, Andrzej Kossakowski, Giuseppe Marmo, Antonino Messina, Benedetto Militello, Saverio Pascazio
comments: 12 pages, 0 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 46 (2013) 365301
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4252
abstract: We analyze the non-relativistic problem of a quantum particle that bounces back and forth between two moving walls. We recast this problem into the equivalent one of a quantum particle in a fixed box whose dynamics is governed by an appropriate time-dependent Schroedinger operator.

id: 1306.4261
title: Quantum generalized fluctuation-dissipation relations in terms of time-distributed observations
authors: Yu.E.Kuzovlev
comments: 15 pages, no figures, LaTeX2e iopart
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4261
abstract: New formulations of quantum generalized fluctuation-dissipation relations in terms of characteristic and probabilistic functionals of continuous observations are suggested and discussed. It is shown that control of entropy production in quantum system turns any measurement in it to a source of its extra perturbations, and because of this effect relations between probabilities of mutually time-reversed processes become definitely non-local in their functional space

id: 1306.4262
title: Long lifetime and high-fidelity quantum memory of photonic polarization qubit by lifting Zeeman degeneracy
authors: Zhongxiao Xu, Yuelong Wu, Long Tian, Lirong Chen, Zhiying Zhang, Zhihui Yan, Shujing Li, Hai Wang, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 37 pages, 6 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4262
abstract: Long-lived and high-fidelity memory for photonic polarization qubit (PPQ) is crucial for constructing quantum networks. Here we present an EIT-based millisecond storage system in which a moderate magnetic field is applied on a cold-atom cloud to lift Zeeman degeneracy. PPQ states are stored as two magnetic-field-insensitive spin waves. Especially, the influence of magnetic-field-sensitive spin waves on the storage performances is almost totally avoided. The measured average fidelities of polarization states are 98.6% at 200 us and 78.4% at 4.5 ms, respectively.

id: 1306.4313
title: Efficient and accurate surface hopping for long time nonadiabatic quantum dynamics
authors: Aaron Kelly, Thomas E. Markland
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4313
abstract: The quantum-classical Liouville equation offers a rigorous approach to nonadiabatic quantum dynamics based on surface hopping type trajectories. However, in practice the applicability of this approach has been limited to short times owing to unfavorable numerical scaling. In this paper we show that this problem can be alleviated by combining it with a formally exact generalized quantum master equation treatment. This allows dramatic improvements in the efficiency of the approach in nonadiabatic regimes, making it computationally tractable to treat the quantum dynamics of complex systems for long times. We demonstrate our approach by applying it to a model of condensed phase charge transfer where our method is shown to be numerically exact in regimes where fewest-switches surface hopping and mean field approaches fail to obtain the either the correct rates or long-time populations.

id: 1306.4332
title: Force-Field Functor Theory: Classical Force-Fields which Reproduce Equilibrium Quantum Distributions
authors: Ryan Babbush, John Parkhill, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 10 Pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4332
abstract: Feynman and Hibbs were the first to variationally determine an effective potential whose associated classical canonical ensemble approximates the exact quantum partition function. We examine the existence of a map between the local potential and an effective classical potential which matches the exact quantum equilibrium density and partition function. The usefulness of such a mapping rests in its ability to readily improve Born-Oppenheimer potentials for use with classical sampling. We show that such a map is unique and must exist. To explore the feasibility of using this result to improve classical molecular mechanics, we numerically produce a map from a library of randomly generated one-dimensional potential/effective potential pairs then evaluate its performance on independent test problems. We also apply the map to simulate liquid para-hydrogen, finding that the resulting radial pair distribution functions agree well with path integral Monte Carlo simulations. The surprising accessibility and transferability of the technique suggest a quantitative route to adapting Born-Oppenheimer potentials, with a motivation similar in spirit to the powerful ideas and approximations of density functional theory.

id: 1306.4370
title: Attractive and Repulsive Casimir Vacuum Energy with General Boundary Conditions
authors: M. Asorey, J. M. Munoz-Castaneda
comments: 21 pages, 11 figures
journal: Nucl. Phys. B 874 (2013) 852-876
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4370
abstract: The infrared behavior of quantum field theories confined in bounded domains is strongly dependent on the shape and structure of space boundaries. The most significant physical effect arises in the behaviour of the vacuum energy. The Casimir energy can be attractive or repulsive depending on the nature of the boundary. We calculate the vacuum energy for a massless scalar field confined between two homogeneous parallel plates with the most general type of boundary conditions depending on four parameters. The analysis provides a powerful method to identify which boundary conditions generate attractive or repulsive Casimir forces between the plates. In the interface between both regimes we find a very interesting family of boundary conditions which do not induce any type of Casimir force. We also show that the attractive regime holds far beyond identical boundary conditions for the two plates required by the Kenneth-Klich theorem and that the strongest attractive Casimir force appears for periodic boundary conditions whereas the strongest repulsive Casimir force corresponds to anti-periodic boundary conditions. Most of the analysed boundary conditions are new and some of them can be physically implemented with metamaterials.

id: 1306.4453
title: Propagation of plasmons in designed single crystalline silver nanostructures
authors: Shailesh Kumar, Ying-Wei Lu, Alexander Huck, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20 Issue 22, pp.24614-24622 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4453
abstract: We demonstrate propagation of plasmons in single crystalline silver nanostructures fabricated using a combination of a bottom-up and a top-down approach. Silver nanoplates of thickness around 65 nm and a surface area of about 100 \mu m^2 are made using a wet chemical method. Silver nanotips and nanowires are then sculptured by focused ion beam milling. The plasmons are excited by using the fluorescence from the redeposited silver clusters during the milling process. Propagation of plasmons in the nanowires is observed in the visible spectral region. We also observe a cavity effect by measuring the emission spectrum from the distal wire end.

id: 1306.4498
title: Families of quasi-local conservation laws and quantum spin transport
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Enej Ilievski
comments: 4+eps pages in RevTex, with 1 pdf figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 057203 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4498
abstract: For fundamental integrable quantum chains with deformed symmetries we outline a general procedure for defining a continuous family of quasi-local operators whose time-derivative is supported near the two boundary sites only. The program is implemented for a spin 1/2 XXZ chain, resulting in improved rigorous estimates for the high temperature spin Drude weight.

id: 1306.4531
title: Generalized Kraus Operators and Generators of Quantum Dynamical Semigroups
authors: Sabina Alazzawi, Bernhard Baumgartner
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4531
abstract: Quantum dynamical semigroups play an important role in the description of physical processes such as diffusion, radiative decay or other non-equilibrium events. Taking strongly continuous and trace preserving semigroups into consideration, we show that, under a special criterion, the generator of such a group admits a certain generalized standard form, thereby shedding new light on known approaches in this direction. Furthermore, we illustrate our analysis in concrete examples.

id: 1306.4533
title: Interrelations between different canonical descriptions of dissipative systems
authors: Dieter Schuch, Julio Guerrero, Francisco F. L¨®pez-Ruiz, Victor Aldaya
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4533
abstract: There are many approaches for the description of dissipative systems coupled to some kind of environment. This environment can be described in different ways; only effective models will be considered here. In the Bateman model, the environment is represented by one additional degree of freedom and the corresponding momentum. In two other canonical approaches, no environmental degree of freedom appears explicitly but the canonical variables are connected with the physical ones via non-canonical transformations. The link between the Bateman approach and those without additional variables is achieved via comparison with a canonical approach using expanding coordinates since, in this case, both Hamiltonians are constants of motion. This leads to constraints that allow for the elimination of the additional degree of freedom in the Bateman approach. These constraints are not unique. Several choices are studied explicitly and the consequences for the physical interpretation of the additional variable in the Bateman model are discussed.

id: 1306.4556
title: Long-range interactions and the sign of natural amplitudes in two-electron systems
authors: Klaas J. H. Giesbertz, Robert van Leeuwen
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 104110 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4556
abstract: In singlet two-electron systems the natural occupation numbers of the one-particle reduced density matrix are given as squares of the natural amplitudes which are defined as the expansion coefficients of the two-electron wave function in a natural orbital basis. In this work we relate the sign of the natural amplitudes to the nature of the two-body interaction. We show that long-range Coulomb-type interactions are responsible for the appearance of positive amplitudes and give both analytical and numerical examples that illustrate how the long-distance structure of the wave function affects these amplitudes. We further demonstrate that the amplitudes show an avoided crossing behavior as function of a parameter in the Hamiltonian and use this feature to show that these amplitudes never become zero, except for special interactions in which infinitely many of them can become zero simultaneously when changing the interaction strength. This mechanism of avoided crossings provides an alternative argument for the non-vanishing of the natural occupation numbers in Coulomb systems.

id: 1306.4610
title: Exact solution of strongly interacting confined quantum systems in one dimension
authors: A. G. Volosniev, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, M. Valiente, N. T. Zinner
comments: 5+5 pages, 2 figures, including supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4610
abstract: Strongly interacting quantum particles are ubiquitous in nature and play a vital role in superfluidity, superconductivity, and magnetism. Low-dimensional magnetic systems have great potential to deliver key insights into fundamental properties of the materials used in modern technology. In one dimension some of these systems even belong to an exclusive class of exactly solvable models. While efforts have gone into solving homogeneous models using the Bethe ansatz, this method cannot be applied to general external confinement which is a reality in many state-of-the-art setups. Here we prove that one-dimensional fermionic and bosonic systems with strong short-range interactions are solvable in arbitrary confining geometries by introducing a new energy functional technique and obtaining the full spectrum of energies and eigenstates. As a first application, we calculate spatial correlations and show how both ferro- and antiferromagnetic states are present already for small system sizes that are prepared and studied in current experiments. Our work demonstrates the enormous potential for quantum manipulation of magnetic correlations at the microscopic scale.

id: 1306.4700
title: Energetic stability of coreless vortices in spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensates with conserved magnetization
authors: Justin Lovegrove, Magnus O. Borgh, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112 (2014) 075301
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4700
abstract: We show that conservation of longitudinal magnetization in a spinor condensate provides a stabilizing mechanism for a coreless vortex phase-imprinted on a polar condensate. The stable vortex can form a composite topological defect with distinct small- and large-distance topology: the inner ferromagnetic coreless vortex continuously deforms toward an outer singular, singly quantized polar vortex. A similar mechanism can also stabilize a nonsingular nematic texture in the polar phase. A weak magnetization is shown to destabilize a coreless vortex in the ferromagnetic phase.

id: 1306.4717
title: Coherent quantum dynamics in donor-bridge-acceptor systems: Beyond the hopping and super-exchange mechanisms
authors: Seogjoo Jang, Timothy C. Berkelbach, David R. Reichman
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4717
abstract: The population transfer dynamics of model donor-bridge-acceptor systems is studied by comparing a recently developed polaron-transformed quantum master equation (PQME) with the well-known Redfield and Forster theories of quantum transport. We show that the PQME approach reduces to these two theories in their respective limits of validity and naturally interpolates between them as a function of the system-bath coupling strength. By exploring the parameter space of our model problem, we identify novel regimes of transport dynamics in bridged systems like those encountered in biological and organic energy transfer problems. Furthermore, we demonstrate that three-level systems like the ones studied herein represent ideal minimal models for the identification of quantum coherent transport as embodied in super-exchange phenomena that cannot be captured by Forster-like hopping approaches.

id: 1306.4771
title: Entropic topological invariant for a gapped one-dimensional system
authors: Isaac H. Kim
comments: 5pages, 6 figures, minor changes. published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 235120 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4771
abstract: We propose an order parameter for a general one-dimensional gapped system with an open boundary condition. The order parameter can be computed from the ground state entanglement entropy of some regions near one of the boundaries. Hence, it is well-defined even in the presence of arbitrary interaction and disorder. We also show that it is invariant under a finite-depth local quantum circuit, suggesting its stability against an arbitrary local perturbation that does not close the energy gap. Further, it can unambiguously distinguish Majorana chain from a trivial chain under a global fermion parity conservation. We argue that the order parameter can be in principle measured in an optical lattice system.

id: 1306.4979
title: Constraints on corrections to Newtonian gravity from two recent measurements of the Casimir interaction between metallic surfaces
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures; to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys. Rev. D, v.87, 125031 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4979
abstract: We obtain constraints on parameters of the Yukawa-type corrections to Newton's gravitational law from measurements of the gradient of the Casimir force between surfaces coated with ferromagnetic metal Ni and from measurements of the Casimir force between Au-coated sinusoidally corrugated surfaces at various angles between corrugations. It is shown that constraints following from the experiment with magnetic surfaces are slightly weaker than currently available strongest constraints, but benefit from increased reliability and independence of systematic effects.The constraints derived from the experiment with corrugated surfaces within the interaction region from 11.6 to 29.2\,nm are stronger up to a factor of 4 than the strongest constraints derived from other experiments. The possibility of further strengthening of constraints on non-Newtonian gravity by using the configurations with corrugated boundaries is proposed.

id: 1306.4986
title: Dynamics of thermalization and decoherence of a nanoscale system
authors: S. Genway, A. F. Ho, D. K. K. Lee
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 130408 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4986
abstract: We study the decoherence and thermalization dynamics of a nanoscale system coupled nonperturbatively to a fully quantum-mechanical bath. The system is prepared out of equilibrium in a pure state of the complete system. We propose a random matrix model and show analytically that there are two robust temporal regimes in the approach of the system to equilibrium --- an initial Gaussian decay followed by an exponential tail, consistent with numerical results on small interacting lattices [S. Genway, A.F. Ho and D.K.K. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 260402 (2010)]. Furthermore, the system decays towards a Gibbs ensemble in accordance with the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis.

id: 1306.4989
title: Dynamical symmetry breaking with optimal control: reducing the number of pieces
authors: Matthew J. M. Power, Gabriele De Chiara
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 214106 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4989
abstract: We analyse the production of defects during the dynamical crossing of a mean-field phase transition with a real order parameter. When the parameter that brings the system across the critical point changes in time according to a power-law schedule, we recover the predictions dictated by the well-known Kibble-Zurek theory. For a fixed duration of the evolution, we show that the average number of defects can be drastically reduced for a very large but finite system, by optimising the time dependence of the driving using optimal control techniques. Furthermore, the optimised protocol is robust against small fluctuations.

id: 1306.5017
title: Fisher-Hartwig expansion for Toeplitz determinants and the spectrum of a single-particle reduced density matrix for one-dimensional free fermions
authors: Dmitri A. Ivanov, Alexander G. Abanov
comments: 10 pages, minor typos corrected, corresponds to published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 375005 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5017
abstract: We study the spectrum of the Toeplitz matrix with a sine kernel, which corresponds to the single-particle reduced density matrix for free fermions on the one-dimensional lattice. For the spectral determinant of this matrix, a Fisher--Hartwig expansion in the inverse matrix size has been recently conjectured. This expansion can be verified order by order, away from the line of accumulation of zeros, using the recurrence relation known from the theory of discrete Painleve equations. We perform such a verification to the tenth order and calculate the corresponding coefficients in the Fisher-Hartwig expansion. Under the assumption of the validity of the Fisher-Hartwig expansion in the whole range of the spectral parameter, we further derive expansions for an equation on the eigenvalues of this matrix and for the von Neumann entanglement entropy in the corresponding fermion problem. These analytical results are supported by a numerical example.

id: 1306.5143
title: Rational extensions of the quantum harmonic oscillator and exceptional Hermite polynomials
authors: David Gomez-Ullate, Yves Grandati, Robert Milson
comments: 25 pages, typed in AMSTeX
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 015203, (2014)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5143
abstract: We prove that every rational extension of the quantum harmonic oscillator that is exactly solvable by polynomials is monodromy free, and therefore can be obtained by applying a finite number of state-deleting Darboux transformations on the harmonic oscillator. Equivalently, every exceptional orthogonal polynomial system of Hermite type can be obtained by applying a Darboux-Crum transformation to the classical Hermite polynomials. Exceptional Hermite polynomial systems only exist for even codimension 2m, and they are indexed by the partitions \lambda of m. We provide explicit expressions for their corresponding orthogonality weights and differential operators and a separate proof of their completeness. Exceptional Hermite polynomials satisfy a 2l+3 recurrence relation where l is the length of the partition \lambda. Explicit expressions for such recurrence relations are given.

id: 1306.5181
title: Coupling a single electron to a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Jonathan B. Balewski, Alexander T. Krupp, Anita Gaj, David Peter, Hans Peter B¨¹chler, Robert L?w, Sebastian Hofferberth, Tilman Pfau
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures and supplementary information
journal: Nature 502, 664-667 (31 October 2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5181
abstract: The coupling of electrons to matter is at the heart of our understanding of material properties such as electrical conductivity. One of the most intriguing effects is that electron-phonon coupling can lead to the formation of a Cooper pair out of two repelling electrons, the basis for BCS superconductivity. Here we study the interaction of a single localized electron with a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) and show that it can excite phonons and eventually set the whole condensate into a collective oscillation. We find that the coupling is surprisingly strong as compared to ionic impurities due to the more favorable mass ratio. The electron is held in place by a single charged ionic core forming a Rydberg bound state. This Rydberg electron is described by a wavefunction extending to a size comparable to the dimensions of the BEC, namely up to 8 micrometers. In such a state, corresponding to a principal quantum number of n=202, the Rydberg electron is interacting with several tens of thousands of condensed atoms contained within its orbit. We observe surprisingly long lifetimes and finite size effects due to the electron exploring the wings of the BEC. Based on our results we anticipate future experiments on electron wavefunction imaging, investigation of phonon mediated coupling of single electrons, and applications in quantum optics.

id: 1306.5206
title: The boundary is mixed
authors: Eugenio Bianchi, Hal M. Haggard, Carlo Rovelli
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5206
abstract: We show that Oeckl's boundary formalism incorporates quantum statistical mechanics naturally, and we formulate general-covariant quantum statistical mechanics in this language. We illustrate the formalism by showing how it accounts for the Unruh effect. We observe that the distinction between pure and mixed states weakens in the general covariant context, and surmise that local gravitational processes are indivisibly statistical with no possible quantal versus probabilistic distinction.

id: 1306.5223
title: Detecting Topological Phases in Cold Atoms
authors: Xiong-Jun Liu, K. T. Law, T. K. Ng, Patrick A. Lee
comments: 4+pages and 4 figures; Supplementary Material is added, with new results obtained in the honeycomb lattice system
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 120402 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5223
abstract: Chern insulators are band insulators which exhibit a gap in the bulk and gapless excitations in the edge. Detection of Chern insulators is a serious challenge in cold atoms since the Hall transport measurements are technically unrealistic for neutral atoms. By establishing a natural correspondence between the time-reversal invariant topological insulator and quantum anomalous Hall system, we show for a class of Chern insulators that the topology can be determined by only measuring Bloch eigenstates at highly symmetric points of the Brillouin zone (BZ). Furthermore, we introduce two experimental schemes including the spin-resolved Bloch oscillation to carry out the measurement. These schemes are highly feasible under realistic experimental conditions. Our results may provide a powerful tool to detect topological phases in cold atoms.

id: 1306.5298
title: Horizon wave-function for single localized particles: GUP and quantum black hole decay
authors: R. Casadio, F. Scardigli
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, extended version of arXiv:1305.3195 with new results about the GUP and black hole decay, clarifications about black hole decay added
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5298
abstract: A localised particle in Quantum Mechanics is described by a wave packet in position space, regardless of its energy. However, from the point of view of General Relativity, if the particle's energy density exceeds a certain threshold, it should be a black hole. In order to combine these two pictures, we introduce a horizon wave-function determined by the particle wave-function in position space, which eventually yields the probability that the particle is a black hole. The existence of a minimum mass for black holes naturally follows, albeit not in the form of a sharp value around the Planck scale, but rather like a vanishing probability that a particle much lighter than the Planck mass be a black hole. We also show that our construction entails an effective Generalised Uncertainty Principle (GUP), simply obtained by adding the uncertainties coming from the two wave-functions associated to a particle. Finally, the decay of microscopic (quantum) black holes is also described in agreement with what the GUP predicts.

id: 1306.5314
title: Anomalous g-Factors for Charged Leptons in a Fractional Coarse-Grained Approach
authors: J. Weberszpil, J. Abdalla Helay?l-Neto
comments: 15 pages
journal: Advances in High Energy Physics Volume 2014 (2014), Article ID 572180
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5314
abstract: In this work, we investigate aspects of the electron, muon and tau gyromagnetic ratios (g-factor) in a fractional coarse-grained scenario, by adopting a Modified Riemann-Liouville (MRL) fractional calculus. We point out the possibility of mapping the experimental values of the specie's g-factors into a theoretical parameter which accounts for fractionality, without computing higher-order QED calculations. We wish to understand whether the value of (g-2) may be traced back to a fractionality of space-time.The justification for the difference between the experimental and the theoretical value g=2 stemming from the Dirac equation is given in the terms of the complexity of the interactions of the charged leptons, considered as pseudo-particles and "dressed" by the interactions and the medium. Stepwise, we build up a fractional Dirac equation from the fractional Weyl equation that, on the other hand, was formulated exclusively in terms of the helicity operator. From the fractional angular momentum algebra, in a coarse-grained scenario, we work out the eigenvalues of the spin operator. Based on the standard electromagnetic current, as an analogy case, we write down a fractional Lagrangian density, with the electromagnetic field minimally coupled to the particular charged lepton. We then study a fractional gauge-like invariance symmetry, formulate the covariant fractional derivative and propose the spinor field transformation. Finally, by taking the non-relativistic regime of the fractional Dirac equation, the fractional Pauli equation is obtained and, from that, an explicit expression for the fractional g-factor comes out that is compared with the experimental CODATA value. Our claim is that the different lepton species must probe space-time by experiencing different fractionalities, once the latter may be associated to the effective interactions of the different families with the medium.

id: 1306.5315
title: The hybrid surface flux method for the ionization amplitude extraction from the calculated wavefunction
authors: Vladislav V. Serov, Tatyana A. Sergeeva, Sergue I. Vinitsky
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043403 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5315
abstract: A method is proposed for extracting ionization amplitudes from the solution of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation (TDSE) describing a system in a time-dependent external field. The method is a hybrid of two earlier developed methods, the time-dependent surface flux (t-SURFF) method and the method using the propagated wavepacket as the source term in a time-independent driven Schr\"odinger equation with the field-free Hamiltonian. It is demonstrated that the method combines the advantages of the parent ones and allows the extraction of ionization amplitudes by solving the TDSE within a small spatial domain (with the boundary conditions provided by exterior complex scaling) and a time interval, not exceeding the external field pulse duration.

id: 1306.5358
title: Monotonicity of a relative R¨¦nyi entropy
authors: Rupert L. Frank, Elliott H. Lieb
comments: 6 pages; minor revisions
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5358
abstract: We show that a recent definition of relative R\'enyi entropy is monotone under completely positive, trace preserving maps. This proves a recent conjecture of M\"uller-Lennert et al.

id: 1306.5385
title: High intrinsic energy resolution photon number resolving detectors
authors: L. Lolli, E. Taralli, C. Portesi, E. Monticone, M. Rajteri
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5385
abstract: Transition Edge Sensors (TESs) are characterized by the intrinsic figure of merit to resolve both the energy and the statistical distribution of the incident photons. These properties lead TES devices to become the best single photon detector for quantum technology experiments. For a TES based on titanium and gold has been reached, at telecommunication wavelength, an unprecedented intrinsic energy resolution (0.113 eV). The uncertainties analysis of both energy resolution and photon state assignment has been discussed. The thermal properties of the superconductive device have been studied by fitting the bias curve to evaluate theoretical limit of the energy resolution.

id: 1306.5401
title: Spurious Modes in Dirac Calculations and How to Avoid Them
authors: Mathieu Lewin, Eric S¨¦r¨¦
comments: Chapter to be published in the book "Many-Electron Approaches in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics: A Multidisciplinary View", edited by Volker Bach and Luigi Delle Site
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5401
abstract: In this paper we consider the problem of the occurrence of spurious modes when computing the eigenvalues of Dirac operators, with the motivation to describe relativistic electrons in an atom or a molecule. We present recent mathematical results which we illustrate by simple numerical experiments. We also discuss open problems.

id: 1306.5549
title: New Geometric Transition as Origin of Particle Production in Time-Dependent Backgrounds
authors: Sang Pyo Kim
comments: RevTex 6 pages, 3 figures; references added and replaced by the version to be published in Phys. Lett. B
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5549
abstract: By extending the quantum evolution of a scalar field in time-dependent backgrounds to the complex-time plane and transporting the in-vacuum along a closed path, we argue that the geometric transition from the simple pole at infinity determines the multi-pair production depending on the winding number. We apply the geometric transition to Schwinger mechanism in the time-dependent vector potential for a constant electric field and to Gibbons-Hawking particle production in the planar coordinates of a de Sitter space.

id: 1306.5570
title: Anomalies and Renormalization of Impure States in Quantum Theories
authors: Kumar S. Gupta, Amilcar Queiroz
comments: 5 pages; v2: small changes in abstract, main text was improved, reference added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5570
abstract: In a Hamiltonian approach to anomalies parity and time reversal symmetries can be restored by introducing suitable impure (or mixed) states. However, the expectation values of observables such as the Hamiltonian diverges in such impure states. Here we show that such divergent expectation values can be treated within a renormalization group framework, leading to a set of $\beta$-functions in the moduli space of the operators representing the observables. This leads to well defined expectation values of the Hamiltonian in a phase where the impure state restores the $P$ and $T$ symmetry. We also show that this RG procedure leads to a mass gap in the spectrum. Such a framework may be relevant for long wavelength descriptions of condensed matter systems such as the quantum spin Hall effect.

id: 1306.5605
title: State-dependent potentials in a nanofiber-based two-color trap for cold atoms
authors: Fam Le Kien, Philipp Schneeweiss, Arno Rauschenbeutel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 033840 (2013)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5605
abstract: We analyze the ac Stark shift of a cesium atom interacting with far-off-resonance guided light fields in the nanofiber-based two-color optical dipole trap realized by Vetsch \textit{et al.} [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{104}, 203603, (2010)]. Particular emphasis is given to the fictitious magnetic field produced by the vector polarizability of the atom in conjunction with the ellipticity of the polarization of the trapping fields. Taking into account the ac Stark shift, the atomic hyperfine interaction, and a magnetic interaction, we solve the stationary Schr\"odinger equation at a fixed point in space and find Zeeman-state-dependent trapping potentials. In analogy to the dynamics in magnetic traps, a local degeneracy of these state-dependent trapping potentials can cause spin flips and should thus be avoided. We show that this is possible using an external magnetic field. Depending on the direction of this external magnetic field, the resulting trapping configuration can still exhibit state-dependent displacement of the potential minima. In this case, we find nonzero Franck-Condon factors between motional states of the potentials for different hyperfine-structure levels and propose the possibility of microwave cooling in a nanofiber-based two-color trap.

id: 1306.5679
title: Goos-Hanchen like Shifts in Graphene Double Barriers
authors: Ahmed Jellal, Ilham Redouani, Youness Zahidi, Hocine Bahlouli
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures, clarifications and reference added, misprints corrected. Version to appear in Physica E
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5679
abstract: We study the Goos-Hanchen like shifts for Dirac fermions in graphene scattered by double barrier structures. After obtaining the solution for the energy spectrum, we use the boundary conditions to explicitly determine the Goos-Hanchen like shifts and the associated transmission probability. We analyze these two quantities at resonances by studying their {main} characteristics as a function of the energy and electrostatic potential parameters. To check the validity of our computations we recover previous results obtained for a single barrier under appropriate limits.

id: 1306.5701
title: Factorization of Dirac Equation in Two Space Dimensions
authors: Hocine Bahlouli, Ahmed Jellal, Youness Zahidi
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures, 8 tables, clarifications added, misprints corrected. Version to appear in IJGMMP
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5701
abstract: We present a systematic approach for the separation of variables for the two-dimensional Dirac equation in polar coordinates. The three vector potential, which couple to the Dirac spinor via minimal coupling, along with the scalar potential are chosen to have angular dependence which emanate the Dirac equation to complete separation of variables. Exact solutions are obtained for a class of solvable potentials along with their relativistic spinor wavefunctions. Particular attention is paid to the situation where the potentials are confined to a quantum dot region and are of scalar, vector and pseudo-scalar type. The study of a single charged impurity embedded in a 2D Dirac equation in the presence of a uniform magnetic field was treated as a particular case of our general study.

id: 1306.5706
title: Nonclassical light in coupled optical systems: anomalous power distribution, Fock space dynamics and supersymmetry
authors: Ramy El-Ganainy, Alexander Eisfeld, Demetrios N. Christodoulides
comments: 23 pages 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5706
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of nonclassical states of light in coupled optical structures and we demonstrate a number of intriguing features associated with such arrangements. By diagonalizing the system's Hamiltonian, we show that these geometries can support eigenstates having anomalous optical intensity distribution with no classical counterpart. These features may provide new avenues towards manipulating light flow at the quantum level. By projecting the Hamiltonian operator on Hilbert subspaces spanning different numbers of photon excitations, we demonstrate that processes such as coherent transport, state localization and surface Bloch oscillations can take place in Fock space. Furthermore, we show that Hamiltonian representations of Fock space manifolds differing by one photon obey a discrete supersymmetry relation

id: 1306.5719
title: Multi-particle correlations, many particle systems, and entropy in effective field theories
authors: Giorgio Torrieri
comments: Improved and extended discussion
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5719
abstract: We discuss the treatment, in an effective field theory, of multi-particle correlations within a "large" system. We show that the act of coarse-graining necessarily introduces violations of unitarity in the evolution of states where the particle number is not defined. For an interacting system, such unitarity violations can cascade from the ultraviolet scale to the infrared in a "short" time. Hence, an effective field theory will be grossly inadequate for describing multi-particle correlations and related observables, even far away from the cut-off scale $\Lambda$. We furthermore argue that if the system is strongly coupled at $\Lambda$, than its final state {\em in the Effective Field Theory} (EFT) will appear as the highest entropy state if only low cumulants and correlations of the EFT degrees of freedom are measured. Heuristically, this can serve as an explanation of how "entropy" is created in a microscopically unitary evolution of a Quantum Field Theory (QFT). We conclude by discussing how these considerations might provide a clue to the apparent thermalization in a hadronic collision even in comparatively small systems, as well as the so-called black hole information paradox; We argue the "paradoxes" are likely to be artifacts of using an effective theory beyond its domain of validity.

id: 1306.5753
title: Area laws in a many-body localized state and its implications for topological order
authors: Bela Bauer, Chetan Nayak
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures. Minor updates
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2013) P09005
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5753
abstract: The question whether Anderson insulators can persist to finite-strength interactions - a scenario dubbed many-body localization - has recently received a great deal of interest. The origin of such a many-body localized phase has been described as localization in Fock space, a picture we examine numerically. We then formulate a precise sense in which a single energy eigenstate of a Hamiltonian can be adiabatically connected to a state of a non-interacting Anderson insulator. We call such a state a many-body localized state and define a many-body localized phase as one in which almost all states are many-body localized states. We explore the possible consequences of this; the most striking is an area law for the entanglement entropy of almost all excited states in a many-body localized phase. We present the results of numerical calculations for a one-dimensional system of spinless fermions. Our results are consistent with an area law and, by implication, many-body localization for almost all states and almost all regions for weak enough interactions and strong disorder. However, there are rare regions and rare states with much larger entanglement entropies. Furthermore, we study the implications that many-body localization may have for topological phases and self-correcting quantum memories. We find that there are scenarios in which many-body localization can help to stabilize topological order at non-zero energy density, and we propose potentially useful criteria to confirm these scenarios.

id: 1306.5803
title: Feynman's Path Integral to Ostrogradsky's Hamiltonian for Lagrangians with second derivatives
authors: G. E. Hahne
comments: 13 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5803
abstract: A calculation is presented that shows that Feynman's path integral implies Ostrogradsky's Hamiltonian for nonsingular Lagrangians with second derivatives. The procedure employs the stationary phase approximation to obtain the limiting change of the wave function per unit time. By way of introduction, the method is applied anew to the case of nonsingular Lagrangians with only first derivatives, but not necessarily quadratic in the velocities. A byproduct of the calculation is an alternate derivation of the Legendre transformation of taking general classical Lagrangians into Hamiltonians. In both the first and second derivative cases, the outcome contains precisely the classical Hamiltonian, which represents the so-called "symbol" of a (not necessarily Hermitean) pseudodifferential operator acting on the wave function at an instant of time. The derivation herein argues for a claim that Feynman's method starts with a classical Lagrangian and ends with a classical Hamiltonian---nonclassical operator-ordering prescriptions in the passage from classical to quantum Hamiltonians require external input, and are generally not inherent in Feynman's path integral formalism.

id: 1306.5827
title: Nonlocal Edge State Transport in Topological Insulators
authors: Alexander P. Protogenov, Evgueni V. Chulkov, Valery A. Verbus
comments: Updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 195431 (2013) [4 pages]
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5827
abstract: We use the N-terminal scheme for studying the edge state transportin in two-dimensional topological insulators. We find the universal nonlocal response in the ballistic transport approach. This macroscopic exhibition of the topological order offers different areas for applications.

id: 1306.5983
title: Nonlinear localized modes in PT-symmetric optical media with competing gain and loss
authors: Bikashkali Midya, Rajkumar Roychoudhury
comments: Final version
journal: Annals of Physics 341 (2014) 12
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5983
abstract: The existence and stability of the nonlinear spatial localized modes are investigated in parity-time symmetric optical media characterized by a generic complex hyperbolic refractive index distribution with competing gain and loss profile. The exact analytical expressions of the localized modes are found for all values of the competing parameter and in the presence of both the self-focusing and self-defocusing Kerr nonlinearity. The effect of competing gain/loss profile on the stability structure of these localized modes are discussed with the help of linear stability analysis followed by the direct numerical simulation of the governing equation. The spatial localized modes in two-dimensional geometry as well as the transverse power-flow density associated with these localized modes are also examined.

id: 1306.6071
title: Invariance of Spooky Action at a Distance in Quantum Entanglement under Lorentz Transformation
authors: Mohammad Sharifi
comments: 
journal: Quantum Matter Vol. 3, pp. 241-248(8) (2014)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6071
abstract: We study the mechanism by which the particle-antiparticle entangled state collapses instantaneously at a distance. By making two key assumptions, we are able to show not only that instantaneous collapse of a wave function at a distance is possible but also that it is an invariant quantity under Lorentz transformation and compatible with relativity. In addition, we will be able to detect in which situation a many-body entangled system exhibits the maximum collapse speed among its entangled particles. Finally we suggest that every force in nature acts via entanglement.

id: 1306.6089
title: Cosmic Axion Spin Precession Experiment (CASPEr)
authors: Dmitry Budker, Peter W. Graham, Micah Ledbetter, Surjeet Rajendran, Alex Sushkov
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. v2: Reordered sections and minor modifications to agree with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 021030 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6089
abstract: We propose an experiment to search for QCD axion and axion-like-particle (ALP) dark matter. Nuclei that are interacting with the background axion dark matter acquire time-varying CP-odd nuclear moments such as an electric dipole moment. In analogy with nuclear magnetic resonance, these moments cause precession of nuclear spins in a material sample in the presence of an electric field. Precision magnetometry can be used to search for such precession. An initial phase of this experiment could cover many orders of magnitude in ALP parameter space beyond the current astrophysical and laboratory limits. And with established techniques, the proposed experimental scheme has sensitivity to QCD axion masses m_a < 10^-9 eV, corresponding to theoretically well-motivated axion decay constants f_a > 10^16 GeV. With further improvements, this experiment could ultimately cover the entire range of masses m_a < 10^-6 eV, complementary to cavity searches.

id: 1306.6128
title: Kicked-Harper model vs On-Resonance Double Kicked Rotor Model: From Spectral Difference to Topological Equivalence
authors: Hailong Wang, Derek Y.H. Ho, Wayne Lawton, Jiao Wang, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 32 pages, 9 figures. Published in Phys. Rev. E. A paper dedicated to Mdm Zhang Huairui, late wife of the last author Jiangbin Gong (NUS)
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 052920 (2013)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6128
abstract: Recent studies have established that, in addition to the well-known kicked Harper model (KHM), an on-resonance double kicked rotor model (ORDKR) also has Hofstadter's butterfly Floquet spectrum, with strong resemblance to the standard Hofstadter's spectrum that is a paradigm in studies of the integer quantum Hall effect. Earlier it was shown that the quasi-energy spectra of these two dynamical models (i) can exactly overlap with each other if an effective Planck constant takes irrational multiples of 2*pi and (ii) will be different if the same parameter takes rational multiples of 2*pi. This work makes some detailed comparisons between these two models, with an effective Planck constant given by 2*pi M/N, where M and N are coprime and odd integers. It is found that the ORDKR spectrum (with two periodic kicking sequences having the same kick strength) has one flat band and $N-1$ non-flat bands whose largest width decays in power law as K to the power of N+2, where K is a kicking strength parameter. The existence of a flat band is strictly proven and the power law scaling, numerically checked for a number of cases, is also analytically proven for a three-band case. By contrast, the KHM does not have any flat band and its band width scales linearly with K. This is shown to result in dramatic differences in dynamical behavior, such as transient (but extremely long) dynamical localization in ORDKR, which is absent in KHM. Finally, we show that despite these differences, there exist simple extensions of KHM and ORDKR (upon introducing an additional periodic phase parameter) such that the resulting extended KHM and ORDKR are actually topologically equivalent, i.e., they yield exactly the same Floquet-band Chern numbers and display topological phase transitions at the same kick strengths. A theoretical derivation of this topological equivalence is provided.

id: 1306.6142
title: Consistent probabilities in loop quantum cosmology
authors: David A. Craig, Parampreet Singh
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures. Matches published version
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 30 (2013) 205008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6142
abstract: A fundamental issue for any quantum cosmological theory is to specify how probabilities can be assigned to various quantum events or sequences of events such as the occurrence of singularities or bounces. In previous work, we have demonstrated how this issue can be successfully addressed within the consistent histories approach to quantum theory for Wheeler-DeWitt-quantized cosmological models. In this work, we generalize that analysis to the exactly solvable loop quantization of a spatially flat, homogeneous and isotropic cosmology sourced with a massless, minimally coupled scalar field known as sLQC. We provide an explicit, rigorous and complete decoherent histories formulation for this model and compute the probabilities for the occurrence of a quantum bounce vs. a singularity. Using the scalar field as an emergent internal time, we show for generic states that the probability for a singularity to occur in this model is zero, and that of a bounce is unity, complementing earlier studies of the expectation values of the volume and matter density in this theory. We also show from the consistent histories point of view that all states in this model, whether quantum or classical, achieve arbitrarily large volume in the limit of infinite `past' or `future' scalar `time', in the sense that the wave function evaluated at any arbitrary fixed value of the volume vanishes in that limit. Finally, we briefly discuss certain misconceptions concerning the utility of the consistent histories approach in these models.

id: 1306.6165
title: Electron states and quantum transitions in a quantum ring on a sphere
authors: Eduard M Kazaryan, Vanik A Shahnazaryan, Hayk A Sarkisyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6165
abstract: An analytical solution of the quantum problem of an electron on a spherical segment with angular confinement potential of the form of rectangular impenetrable walls is presented. It is shown that the problem is reduced to finding solution of hypergeometric equation. As an application of the obtained results the quantum transitions in this system are discussed, and it is shown that the selection rule for quantum number l is removed due to the violation of spherical symmetry of the problem.

id: 1306.6167
title: Structure of quantum vortex tangle in He-4 counterflow turbulence
authors: Luiza Kondaurova, Victor L'vov, Anna Pomyalov, Itamar Procaccia
comments: 26 pages, 21 figs, v2: presentation is improved
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 014502 (2014)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6167
abstract: The main goal of this paper is to present a comprehensive characterization of well developed vortex tangles in a turbulent counterflow in quantum fluids (with a laminar normal fluid component). We analyze extensive numerical simulations using the vortex filament method, solving the full Biot-Savart equations for the vortex dynamics in a wide range of temperatures and counter-flow velocities. In addition to a detailed analysis of traditional characteristics such as vortex line density, anisotropic and curvature parameters of the vortex tangle, we stress other dynamical and statistical characteristics which are either much less studied or even unstudied. The latter include reconnection rates, mean mutual friction forces, drift velocities and the probability distribution functions of various tangle parameters: the loop length, the line curvature, the mean curvature of loops with a given length, etc. During these studies we compare the three main reconnection procedures which are widely used in the literature, and identify which properties are strongly affected by the choice of the reconnection criteria and which of them are practically insensitive to the reconnection procedure. The conclusion is that the vortex filament method in the framework of the Biot-Savart equation sufficiently robust and well suited for the description of the steady state vortex tangle in a quantum counterflow. The Local-Induction Approximation to this equation may be successfully used to analytically establish relationships between mean characteristics of the stochastic vortex tangle.

id: 1306.6248
title: Velocity spectra of quantum turbulence: experiments, numerics and models
authors: Carlo F. Barenghi, Victor L'vov, Philippe-E. Roche
comments: 15 pages. 4 figs
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6248
abstract: Superfluid Turbulence is unusual and presents a challenge to fluid dynamicists because it consists of two coupled, inter penetrating turbulent fluids: the first is inviscid with quantised vorticity, the second is viscous with continuous vorticity. Despite this double nature, the observed spectra of the superfluid turbulent velocity at sufficiently large length scales are similar to those o ordinary turbulence. We present experimental, numerical and theoretical results which explain these similarities, and illustrate the limits of our present understanding of superfluid turbulence at smaller scales.

id: 1306.6422
title: Master equation approach to conductivity of bosonic and fermionic carriers in one- and two-dimensional lattices
authors: Andrey R. Kolovsky
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 526, 102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6422
abstract: We discuss the master equation approach to diffusive current of bosonic or fermionic carriers in one- and two-dimensional lattices. This approach is shown to reproduce all known results of the linear response theory, including the integer quantum Hall effect for fermionic carriers. The main advantage of the approach is that it allows to calculate the current beyond the linear response regime where new effects are found. In particular, we show that the Hall current can be inverted by changing orientation of the static force (electric field) relative to the primary axes of the lattice.

id: 1306.6425
title: High temperature collective spin-photon coupling in a microwave cavity
authors: E. I. Baibekov
comments: 
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy 116, 889-896 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6425
abstract: An ensemble of N identical noninteracting spins being in thermal equilibrium and coupled to the resonant mode of a lossless microwave cavity is studied at arbitrary temperature T. Near T = 0 the system is known to be in a coupled spin-photon state that manifests itself by the splitting of the cavity mode (vacuum Rabi splitting). The cavity emission spectrum is simulated for arbitrary T. It is shown that the spin-photon coherence can be partially preserved for T < w sqrt{N}/2, where w is the spin excitation energy, even in case when the spins are randomly directed. The calculations corroborate recent room-temperature observations of the collective coupling between the microwave cavity mode and the electron spin ensemble (NV centers in diamond, DPPH, Fe8 nanomagnets). At higher T, as a consequence of thermal excitations within the spin ensemble, the two lines of the emission spectrum merge into a narrow line with broad wings.

id: 1306.6435
title: Excited-State Quantum Phase Transitions in Dicke Superradiance Models
authors: Tobias Brandes
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 032133 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6435
abstract: We derive analytical results for various quantities related to the excited-state quantum phase transitions in a class of Dicke superradiance models in the semiclassical limit. Based on a calculation of a partition sum restricted to Dicke states, we discuss the singular behavior of the derivative of the density of states and find observables like the mean (atomic) inversion and the boson (photon) number and its fluctuations at arbitrary energies. Criticality depends on energy and a parameter that quantifies the relative weight of rotating versus counter-rotating terms, and we find a close analogy to the logarithmic and jump-type non-analyticities known from the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model.

id: 1306.6574
title: On Corrections to the Born-Oppenheimer Approximation
authors: Gerald I. Kerley
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6574
abstract: This report presents a new approach for treating the coupling of electrons and nuclei in quantum mechanical calculations for molecules and condensed matter. It includes the standard "Born-Oppenheimer approximation" as a special case but treats both adiabatic and non-adiabatic corrections using perturbation theory. The adiabatic corrections include all terms that do not explicitly involve the nuclear wavefunctions, so that the nuclei move on a single electronic potential surface. The non-adiabatic corrections, which allow the nuclei to move on more than one potential surface, include coupling between the electronic and nuclear wavefunctions. The method is related to an approach first proposed by Born and Huang, but it differs in the methodology and in the definition of the electronic wavefunctions and potential surfaces. A simple example is worked out to illustrate the mechanics of the technique. The report also includes a review of previous work.

id: 1306.6650
title: Vibration-assisted resonance in photosynthetic excitation energy transfer
authors: E. K. Irish, R. G¨®mez-Bombarelli, B. W. Lovett
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; abstract updated to current version
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6650
abstract: Understanding how the effectiveness of natural photosynthetic energy harvesting systems arises from the interplay between quantum coherence and environmental noise represents a significant challenge for quantum theory. Recently it has begun to be appreciated that discrete molecular vibrational modes may play an important role in the dynamics of such systems. As an alternative to computationally demanding numerical approaches, we present a microscopic mechanism by which intramolecular vibrations contribute to the efficiency and directionality of energy transfer. Excited vibrational states create resonant pathways through the system, supporting fast and efficient energy transport. Vibrational damping together with the natural downhill arrangement of molecular energy levels gives intrinsic directionality to the energy flow. Analytical and numerical results demonstrate a significant enhancement of the efficiency and directionality of energy transport that can be directly related to the existence of resonances between vibrational and excitonic levels.

id: 1306.6685
title: Local convertibility and the quantum simulation of edge states in many-body systems
authors: Fabio Franchini, Jian Cui, Luigi Amico, Heng Fan, Mile Gu, Vladimir E. Korepin, Leong Chuan Kwek, Vlatko Vedral
comments: Accepted by Physical Review X. 5 pages (+ 2 pages of Methods & SupplementaryMmaterial). 11 figures. Several changes since first submission
journal: Phys. Rev. X 4, 041028 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6685
abstract: In some many-body systems, certain ground state entanglement (Renyi) entropies increase even as the correlation length decreases. This entanglement non-monotonicity is a potential indicator of non-classicality. In this work we demonstrate that such a phenomenon, known as non-local convertibility, is due to the edge state (de)construction occurring in the system. To this end, we employ the example of the Ising chain, displaying an order-disorder quantum phase transitions. Employing both analytical and numerical methods, we compute entanglement entropies for various system bipartitions (A|B) and consider ground states with and without Majorana edge states. We find that the thermal ground states, enjoying the Hamiltonian symmetries, show non-local convertibility if either A or B are smaller than, or of the order of, the correlation length. In contrast, the ordered (symmetry breaking) ground state is always locally convertible. The edge states behavior explains all these results and could disclose a paradigm to understand local convertibility in other quantum phases of matter. The connection we establish between convertibility and non-local, quantum correlations provides a clear criterion of which features a universal quantum simulator should possess to outperform a classical machine.

id: 1306.6773
title: Silicon avalanche photodiode operation and lifetime analysis for small satellites
authors: Yue Chuan Tan, Rakhitha Chandrasekara, Cliff Cheng, Alexander Ling
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, accepted by Optics Express
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6773
abstract: Silicon avalanche photodiodes (APDs) are sensitive to operating temperature fluctuations and are also susceptible to radiation flux expected in satellite-based quantum experiments. We introduce a low power voltage adjusting mechanism to overcome the effects of in-orbit temperature fluctuations. We also present data on the performance of Si APDs after irradiation (gamma-ray and proton beam). Combined with an analysis of expected orbital irradiation, we propose that a Si APD in a 400 km equatorial orbit may operate beyond the lifetime of the satellite.

id: 1306.6806
title: Decay dynamics and exciton localization in large GaAs quantum dots grown by droplet epitaxy
authors: Petru Tighineanu, Rapha?l Daveau, Eun Hye Lee, Jin Dong Song, S?ren Stobbe, Peter Lodahl
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 155320 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6806
abstract: We investigate the optical emission and decay dynamics of excitons confined in large strain-free GaAs quantum dots grown by droplet epitaxy. From time-resolved measurements combined with a theoretical model we show that droplet-epitaxy quantum dots have a quantum efficiency of about 75% and an oscillator strength between 8 and 10. The quantum dots are found to be fully described by a model for strongly-confined excitons, in contrast to the theoretical prediction that excitons in large quantum dots exhibit the so-called giant oscillator strength. We attribute these findings to localized ground-state excitons in potential minima created by material intermixing during growth. We provide further evidence for the strong-confinement regime of excitons by extracting the size of electron and hole wavefunctions from the phonon-broadened photoluminescence spectra. Furthermore, we explore the temperature dependence of the decay dynamics and, for some quantum dots, observe a pronounced reduction in the effective transition strength with temperature. We quantify and explain these effects as being an intrinsic property of large quantum dots owing to thermal excitation of the ground-state exciton. Our results provide a detailed understanding of the optical properties of large quantum dots in general, and of quantum dots grown by droplet epitaxy in particular.

id: 1306.6816
title: Entanglement of four qubit systems: a geometric atlas with polynomial compass I (the finite world)
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Holweck, Jean-Gabriel Luque, Jean-Yves Thibon
comments: 48 pages, 7 tables, 13 figures, references and remarks added (v2)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6816
abstract: We investigate the geometry of the four qubit systems by means of algebraic geometry and invariant theory, which allows us to interpret certain entangled states as algebraic varieties. More precisely we describe the nullcone, i.e., the set of states annihilated by all invariant polynomials, and also the so called third secant variety, which can be interpreted as the generalization of GHZ-states for more than three qubits. All our geometric descriptions go along with algorithms which allow us to identify any given state in the nullcone or in the third secant variety as a point of one of the 47 varieties described in the paper. These 47 varieties correspond to 47 non-equivalent entanglement patterns, which reduce to 15 different classes if we allow permutations of the qubits.

id: 1306.6829
title: Doubling of Entanglement Spectrum in Tensor Renormalization Group
authors: Hiroshi Ueda, Kouichi Okunishi, Tomotoshi Nishino
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures. Accepted in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 075116 (2014)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6829
abstract: We investigate the entanglement spectrum in HOTRG ---tensor renormalization group (RG) method combined with the higher order singular value decomposition--- for two-dimensional (2D) classical vertex models. In the off-critical region, it is explained that the entanglement spectrum associated with the RG transformation is described by `doubling' of the spectrum of a corner transfer matrix. We then demonstrate that the doubling actually occurs for the square-lattice Ising model by HOTRG calculations up to $D = 64$, where $D$ is the cut-off dimension of tensors. At the critical point, we also find that a non-trivial $D$ scaling behavior appears in the entanglement entropy. We mention about the HOTRG for the 1D quantum system as well.

id: 1306.6898
title: Quantum phases of incommensurate optical lattices due to cavity backaction
authors: Hessam Habibian, Andr¨¦ Winter, Simone Paganelli, Heiko Rieger, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 17 pages, 15 figures, Correction of typo in the title (paper remains unchanged)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 043618 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6898
abstract: Ultracold bosonic atoms are confined by an optical lattice inside an optical resonator and interact with a cavity mode, whose wave length is incommensurate with the spatial periodicity of the confining potential. We predict that the intracavity photon number can be significantly different from zero when the atoms are driven by a transverse laser whose intensity exceeds a threshold value and whose frequency is suitably detuned from the cavity and the atomic transition frequency. In this parameter regime the atoms form clusters in which they emit in phase into the cavity. The clusters are phase locked, thereby maximizing the intracavity photon number. These predictions are based on a Bose-Hubbard model, whose derivation is here reported in detail. The Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian has coefficients which are due to the cavity field and depend on the atomic density at all lattice sites. The corresponding phase diagram is evaluated using Quantum Monte Carlo simulations in one-dimension and mean-field calculations in two dimensions. Where the intracavity photon number is large, the ground state of the atomic gas lacks superfluidity and possesses finite compressibility, typical of a Bose-glass.

id: 1306.6922
title: Stochastic Variational Method as Quantization Scheme I: Field Quantization of Complex Klein-Gordan Equation
authors: T. Koide, T. Kodama
comments: 38 pages, 4 figures, the errors of definitions are corrected and arguments are added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6922
abstract: Stochastic Variational Method (SVM) is the generalization of the variation method to the case with stochastic variables. In the series of papers, we investigate the applicability of SVM as an alternative field quantization scheme. Here, we discuss the complex Klein-Gordon equation. In this scheme, the Euler-Lagrangian equation for the stochastic fields leads to the functional Schroedinger equation, which in turn can be interpreted as the ideal fluid equation in the functional space. We show that the Fock state vector is given by the stationary solution of these differential equations and various results in the usual canonical quantization can be reproduced, including the effect of anti-particles. The present formulation is a quantization scheme based on commutable variables, so that there appears no ambiguity associated with the ordering of operators, for example, in the definition of Noether charges.

id: 1306.6943
title: A PTAS for the Classical Ising Spin Glass Problem on the Chimera Graph Structure
authors: Rishi Saket
comments: 6 pages, corrected PTAS running time
journal: 
subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.6943
abstract: We present a polynomial time approximation scheme (PTAS) for the minimum value of the classical Ising Hamiltonian with linear terms on the Chimera graph structure as defined in the recent work of McGeoch and Wang. The result follows from a direct application of the techniques used by Bansal, Bravyi and Terhal who gave a PTAS for the same problem on planar and, in particular, grid graphs. We also show that on Chimera graphs, the trivial lower bound is within a constant factor of the optimum.

id: 1306.1202
title: A note on QUBO instances defined on Chimera graphs
authors: Sanjeeb Dash
comments: Version 1 discussed computational results with random QUBO instances. McGeoch and Wang made an error in describing the instances they used; they did not use random QUBO instances but rather random Ising Model instances with fields (mapped to QUBO instances). The current version of the note reports on tests with the precise instances used by McGeoch and Wang
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1202
abstract: McGeoch and Wang (2013) recently obtained optimal or near-optimal solutions to some quadratic unconstrained boolean optimization (QUBO) problem instances using a 439 qubit D-Wave Two quantum computing system in much less time than with the IBM ILOG CPLEX mixed-integer quadratic programming (MIQP) solver. The problems studied by McGeoch and Wang are defined on subgraphs -- with up to 439 nodes -- of Chimera graphs. We observe that after a standard reformulation of the QUBO problem as a mixed-integer linear program (MILP), the specific instances used by McGeoch and Wang can be solved to optimality with the CPLEX MILP solver in much less time than the time reported in McGeoch and Wang for the CPLEX MIQP solver. However, the solution time is still more than the time taken by the D-Wave computer in the McGeoch-Wang tests.

id: 1306.1240
title: More on gapped Goldstones at finite density: More gapped Goldstones
authors: Alberto Nicolis, Riccardo Penco, Federico Piazza, Rachel A. Rosen
comments: 50 pages. v2: Fixed several typos in equations. Minor modifications to the counting rule. Acknowledgements and references added. Matches JHEP version
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.1240
abstract: It was recently argued that certain relativistic theories at finite density can exhibit an unconventional spectrum of Goldstone excitations, with gapped Goldstones whose gap is exactly calculable in terms of the symmetry algebra. We confirm this result as well as previous ones concerning gapless Goldstones for non-relativistic systems via a coset construction of the low-energy effective field theory. Moreover, our analysis unveils additional gapped Goldstones, naturally as light as the others, but this time with a model-dependent gap. Their exact number cannot be inferred solely from the symmetry breaking pattern either, but rather depends on the details of the symmetry breaking mechanism--a statement that we explicitly verify with a number of examples. Along the way we provide what we believe to be a particularly transparent interpretation of the so-called inverse-Higgs constraints for spontaneously broken spacetime symmetries.

id: 1306.4990
title: Negativity and topological order in the toric code
authors: Claudio Castelnovo
comments: (5 pages, 1 figure; a mistake in v1 has been corrected in v2; typos and references fixed in v3)
journal: Physical Review A 88, 042319 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4990
abstract: In this manuscript we study the behaviour of the entanglement measure dubbed negativity in the context of the toric code model. Using a method introduced recently by Calabrese, Cardy and Tonni [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 130502 (2012)], we obtain an exact expression which illustrates how the non-local correlations present in a topologically ordered state reflect in the behaviour of the negativity of the system. We find that the negativity has a leading area-law contribution, if the subsystems are in direct contact with one another (as expected in a zero-range correlated model). We also find a topological contribution directly related to the topological entropy, provided that the partitions are topologically non-trivial in both directions on a torus. We also show that the negativity captures only quantum contributions to the entanglement. Indeed, we show that the negativity vanishes identically for the classical topologically ordered 8-vertex model, which on the contrary exhibits a finite von Neumann entropy, inclusive of topological correction.

id: 1306.4661
title: Wave functions of the Q.Q interaction in terms of unitary 9-j coefficients
authors: Larry Zamick, Matthew Harper
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. C 91, 034331 (2015)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4661
abstract: We obtain wave functions for 2 protons and 2 neutrons in the g_{9/2} shell expressed as column vectors with amplitudes D(J_{p},J_{n}). When we use a quadrupole-quadrupole interaction (Q.Q) we get, in many cases, a very strong overlap with wave functions given by a single set of unitary 9j coefficients --U9j= ((jj)^{2j} (jj^{J_{B}} \ (jj)^{J_{p}} (jj)^{J_{n}})^{I}. Here J_{B}=9 for even I T =0 states. For both even and odd T=1 states we take JB equal to 8 whilst for odd I, T=0 we take JB to be 7. We compare the Q.Q results with those of a more realistic interaction.

